ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In his letter of 3 February 2020, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informed the House that the number 405, 412, 417 topical questions and the question number 1127 under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, addressed to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, will not be answered because of irresponsibility. The topical questions to be discussed are: The number 384, 416 and 442 topical questions and will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Niki Kerameos. The 397 and 400 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. The 429 and 432 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of State and Digital Governance, Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis. The question under number 430 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Plackotakis, and the question under number 436 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Sophia Zacharakis. The first two questions, ladies and gentlemen, will be answered by the Minister of State and Digital Governance, Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis. We will start the debate with the first question under number 429/27-1-2020 of the First Circuit MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Marios Katsis, to the Minister of State and Digital Governance, on the subject: "Booking shops, redundancies and depreciation of the ELTAs" and the second with number 432/28-1-2020 on the second question of the Herculus MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingeroglou, to the Minister of State and Digital Governance, on the subject: "In the air, a thousand two hundred and thirty employees in the ELTAs", mentioned in the same topic. They will therefore be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, pursuant to the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. So I give the floor first to Mr Mario Katsi, a Member of the Radical Left Coalition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u3	I would ask you - because there is a timely question - to try and keep our time. Here, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u4	I will try, Madam President. Minister, we hoped that the final state that you established in the summer of 2019 would at least take serious care to deal with the Greek Posts - which have a hundred and a half ninety-two years of history - and maintain at least what was found by SYRIZA, that is to say, the ongoing procedures for strengthening liquidity in the ELTAs, as well as the implementation of a plan to transform them. Instead, you haven't made a move in six months. You know that ELTAs provide critical services of general interest to residents in every corner of the territory, in every remote village. Pensioners in each remote village receive their pension from ELTAs, receive PPC's accounts - you know that these are very critical - even tax arrangements or current arrangements. These come late, because the services cannot reach every corner of Greece. And I would remind you that you have a huge responsibility as a government and for the loss of ELTA's assets of EUR 221 million from your medals with the Post Bank, as well as for lost projects of EUR 52 million, ESRB projects concerning investment in new technologies, digital services. And you do not make any adjustments to market requirements in the digital future. But what did you do? While you know that workers' contracts end, while you know that there are retirement procedures with the immediate risk of closing shops, you left this to happen. We now see in Parliament too many questions from interparliamentary Members, from all parties. Questions come, one after another, as to why you don't have any shots. So tell us why we're standing in front of this router, developments with contractors' redundancies, a real mess in customer service and lock-up everywhere. I warn you not to answer by hiding behind the administration of ELTAs, washing your hands. You have an absolute responsibility for what is going on and you will have to take the decision and answer today if, Minister, the stores that have been closed, if you intend to close further shops, what will be done with workers whose contracts end from now on, and if you will cover the organic gaps by hiring through IASA and increased moleculosis. You should tell us, after all, if you have any plan for the ELTAs and what that is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kegeroglu now has the floor from the Change Movement for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thousands of thirty ELTA workers are basically in the air, since the recent decision not to renew contracts for two hundred thirty promotes the future for the rest. There is no provision for covering the gaps left by these workers. The two-month contracts launched by the ELTA administration obviously cannot meet the needs. There is a more general issue, however, which has to do with the planning for the reorganisation of the ELTAs. For four months, instead of correcting the bad texts of the previous period, the new administration has caused new problems with its decisions. Management of course has the responsibility, it is under the supervision of the Ministry, but we must all deal with a problem, and we must now, Mr Minister, tell us what the government's position on the reorganisation of the ELTAs is and on their ability to provide universal services, which are the only ones that can serve the entire population. The government was committed to finding a solution in two or three months after taking up its duties or even more months. It has already been seven, four months is the new administration. What we see is for the new administration to continue the same way as the former government itself. Unfortunately, you have not done anything to deal with bad texts. On the contrary, new problems are caused by your own inertia and your own choices. You're going to have to tell us that. Workers are well aware that they have reacted, the ELTA Workers' Federation is talking about the inertia of the government and administration. We have public debts - and I put it with a question mark to tell us - of between 250 and 300 million to the ELTAs? Do we have such debts? At the same time we have public debts, do we close stores due to non-viability? But if the reason that he is not paying the public is she, do we have to deal with matters differently? So what you intend to do about the reorganisation of the ELTAs, and above all what you intend to do for the workers, the thousands of two hundred and thirty in total. The issue with the necessary staff, how are you going to deal with it? However, two-month contracts are not dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. I'll start with what I heard from Mr. Katsey. I must say that I have heard the timely question with interest, but obviously I disagree with her spirit and with the philosophy that is stumbling her up. First of all, in the text of the question, he said that SYRIZA had created a legislative charter on the rescue of the ELTAs on its government. We didn't find a map, we didn't find any paper! If there's anything like that, please give it to us so we can know. On the contrary, what you did was injecting liquidity through the advance payments of the universal service, which we continued because it was completely tempting. On the contrary, let's go see where you received them and where you left them, what was the picture of what we took in July. In 2014, the company’s own funds exceeded EUR 38 million accumulated profits, contrary to 2019, where we now had accumulated losses with an estimate of EUR 115 million. So, in a sense, the agency has lost a value of EUR 150 million this four years. The group in 2014 had profits before tax of EUR 15 million, and now it is estimated that the losses will be EUR 30 million and we are talking about an agency, which has a deficit less than EUR 6 million every month. That's the picture right now. Obviously, I can say many more elements, such as data on development investments, which were almost zero. I will tell you that in the ELTA systems we still have Windows XP, but there are other issues, which I think one should stand. Report the stores. Indeed, they closed shops as decisions of the ELTA administration. They were suspended at the moment until the complete plan was examined. But I have here a list of seventy stores. Do you know who these are? For example, Ano Ilisia, Exarchia, Perissos, Gigifes, Voiotia Prefecture, in my special homeland Laconia, in Xerokabi. These are seventy shops that have been closed over your days. I ask: was this so well initiated - if that were the spirit of your question - the solution that you made in the ELTAs, which you closed seventy shops? And if so, you answer first because they closed this down, to see whether, in fact, the ELTAs are in a very bad economic situation. Because what I am replying to you is that these are management decisions in a very difficult financial situation, until the agency's rescue plan is drawn up. With regard to the rescue plan, this really takes time to draw up. Why? Because there are many parameters, parameters relating to - I stress the first - the Competition Law of the European Union. They therefore require consultation at European level too. It is not just a matter of money, it is also a matter of technocratic adequacy and complexity of the project. Of course, we also have a private shareholder in ELTA, which affects this debate. But you think that this plan will be drawn up. What did you do, what was it? Fly as they say "ball" in next or "hot potato", as some people say. It's in our hands, and we have no problem with that. ELTAs are, as you say in your question, and that is why we agree, a body with ninety-two years of life, is just as ancient as the Greek state, and that is why we ELTAs will rescue them. But to save them, they will need difficult decisions. It's not enough to just throw the ball at the next. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] As far as contracts are concerned, what Mr Kegeroglu asks, when the agency was received from today's administration, we saw that too many of these contracts had not been reopened. As you know, with Law 4412/2016 many times there is a need to issue notices of these competitions in time, so that you can get these employees. In the management's view, as I have been informed, there are also issues of the legality of certain contracts, particularly in the parent, which depend on the fact that they must in no way create indirect workers, that is to say, that there are no recruitments via parent companies. It is precisely for this reason that the AACC's solution has been chosen at the moment. It is also, given that a large part of this debate is playing, and the consultation concluded by the ERT at the end of January with regard to the distribution days, that is to say, whether, as the ERT looks at, we will move from 1 to 3, as is the case in most European countries. If this provision is adopted, if ERT moves along this road, it is obviously also part of the equation in relation to the needs of the workers. We - the administration of ELTA - have now announced five hundred and twenty new positions through APA, and it is certain that whatever needs will arise, they will take place within the framework of the broader planning for the next period, when the broader plan is announced, which will be done very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for three minutes, so that you can get a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are predictable, and you and your government, as the Prime Minister said. In fact, you hid behind the command. First of all, I invite you to submit the document saying that seventy shops were closed on SYRIZA in the Minutes. I totally disprove you. That's the first. Secondly, it is outrageous to tell us, while you are self-powered government, that it is all because of SYRIZA and what SYRIZA has done to rescue the ELTAs and what we have received. You know, Minister, this 'caramella' is melted and will not go far. First prisoner. In 2015, when we took over governance, from 2013 to 2015 you had not given a cent to compensate the universal service. Not even a cent! But what did you do in 2014 and I mean by the previous government of New Democracy and PASOK? It had submitted a proposal to the Commission, as you said - which is a very complex factor, but which is also a pan-European one - so that the compensation for the provision of the universal service was at the minimum of EUR 15 million per year. In fact, you said that this price is a service of general economic interest. Since 2013, however, in 2017, the National Telecommunications and Post Commission has said that the provision of universal service is of EUR 40 million per year. So, if we take these years into account in 2019, we reach EUR 260 million. And the amount you mentioned, Minister - because you were smuggling - is because we signed this debt for the universal service in the ELTA budget. And you know why? Because we gave EUR 90 million for the EUR 15 million per year for the four years. In fact, we got another 45 million more from the government's incumbents to the ELTAs. Ninety and forty-five makes us a hundred thirty-five, Minister. For this very reason, we have also drawn up a plan, which is there - you can find it from the previous administration, but also from the Ministry - so that a proposal can be submitted to the Commission, as is done pan-Europeanally, in order to save the ELTAs and compensate them without illegal state aid with EUR 40 million per year, Minister. So we come here in dialogue and parliamentary control with concrete proposals and solutions. What did you do, though? You took up two months, and even a year after the administration told you in December 2019, and you did not renew the contracts of thirty-two employees. Why were the announcements delayed over a month? Why did you do this while you knew that the lack of thirty - two workers in critical areas would create problems in service with the public and close shops? And what will you do when these two months' contracts are concluded, Minister? Will you shut down business and shut down shops again? So, as soon as someone learns the job from those who hired, they're gonna have to hire again and find out again? Because, you know, from this invitation, he can't get back in after a year. It must be over a year. Congratulations, then! Let me see what you will answer both to the Greek people and to the Members of the New Democracy, and to all the parties concerned, who see the Greek Post Office, a historic infrastructure, which is identical to the Greek state, to have a design for artificial crisis by your Government and the reaping of the ELTAs. I can't guess anything else. Otherwise, you are unable to manage them. Unless you have instructed ELTA services to receive them by private competitors, as you have done other infrastructures. We've seen this. And that's not all. Even now ELTA workers, those who are already working, are very concerned about whether they will be paid every month, whether there is a plan for voluntary exit, and indeed, with an obligation, namely by force. They are concerned about whether you intend to change the collective agreement and whether those who come out of retirement receive the benefits of the past, as their previous colleagues have taken. Do you have a plan to cope with intense competition with the private sector?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u11	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. Will you, for example, include the ELTAs with the COURIER ELTA? Will you turn to profitable parcel and courier services, taking advantage of the huge network of stores? Could you have any plans to provide other services, as we have already done on our own days, to provide energy services or financial transactions, as all the postal services in Europe do? You must, Minister, send the plan to compensate for the universal service of ELTAs which your own government had set at a low limit and at a price of EUR 15 million per year. If you do this, the ELTAs will be viable. We therefore give you concrete solutions and a plan. We want you to make it clear to us that shops will be opened, that you will stop redundancies and that you will proceed to transparent recruitment - welcome to rule one by one, election, other you have told us - so that the ELTAs remain under public control. You, Minister, have full responsibility. Please tell me practically what I asked you to do. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u13	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. The truth of everything I supported in my first talk has emerged. The previous government, Minister, yes, has brought the ELTAs to a dead end. He created huge problems. He closed the stores you said. This does not mean, however, that this dramatic situation of the ELTAs must be an alibi to you to finish them. The act to proceed with the dismissal, in essence, of a large number of workers, of ELTAs being left without staff, cannot satisfy the needs that exist, both for the public and for the citizens, is an act that will devaluate them further. We suggest specific things to you. Yes, the reorganization plan had to be done yesterday! Yes, the plan should have been implemented yesterday! Unfortunately, as we said, it did not happen. Today you are going to give workers an extension to prepare the plan. And this plan will show what needs to be done. It is a very big mistake to call the disciples to replace those who have constantly been providing their services and working for the ELTAs. We therefore believe that workers should continue as they are - with regulation, if necessary, even legislative - to draw up a reorganisation study, bring it to the committee responsible to discuss it and all together to decide the framework - on the basis of the government's decision to support reorganisation in this direction. The public must fulfil its obligations. It is not possible for the Greek public to owe such large sums to ELTAs. In fact, the period during which they were created does not matter, because I remember that on SYRIZA they had reached a dead end and used money that they had to do with other services in order to pay workers. They had reached a complete dead end, but that's not an alibi for you. It is therefore necessary to pay what the Greek State has to pay to the ELTAs and to proceed with the reorganisation plan. The workers must continue to work in order not to close further shops and, of course, to proceed with the notice of the AACC, if you want - after all, we are in favour of this process - so that there is no huge gap that will further depreciate the ELTAs and achieve their goal. There's a question. In 2016, the SYRIZA government took the ELTAs to the Supreme Court. I say that because it didn't. My colleague from SYRIZA wants to think he did all right. If he did everything well, there wouldn't be any disrespect. In other words, the problem would not have been created. Do you think they should stay there, given that the superstate - at least its supervisory board - has a foreign administration? Is it something that raises the issue of the reorganisation of the ELTAs, or will the government have all the power and power, if you want, to propose an autonomous solution without interfering with other powers? Of course, the European Commission is an institutional process and any decision will be discussed with them. I'm talking about the superstition. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u15	Mr Pierracakis, you have the floor to answer both colleagues for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I'm very tempted to start with something, because you said, Mr. Katsey, we're hiding behind the command. My predecessor, do you know what he was answering when he received questions about the ELTAs? I read to you: "It is noted that the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information has no competence to operate the "Greek Post S.A.", except on legislative and regulatory issues relating to the postal sector. In addition, in accordance with Article 197 of L.4389/2016, as amended and in force by Article 380 of Law 4512/2018, all the shares held by the Greek State in ELTA are transferred automatically and without consideration to the Hellenic Company of Participation and Property SA.’ He then says: “For this reason, questions relating to economic development, administration, management and organisation of ELTAs do not fall within the scope of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Digital Policy...”
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u17	What date does it say, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u18	He'll be filed. He'll be filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u19	What date?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u20	They are all questions that have been answered in 2019 by Mr. Pappas. I have them in writing, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u21	After the superstition? After 2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u22	After the superstition, but he responded like this, and now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u23	Yeah, but after the superstition!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u24	Don't interrupt, Mr. Katsy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u25	Listen. So my question is this: Who is right, you or my predecessor? For you are currently asking this question and you are actually undoing the spirit of the answers given by Mr Pappas. On this point, I believe that Mr Pappas was replying correctly. You are right now asking this question as if we were to define all the decisions of the administration, because in your question you say: 'Will you close shops?' I think it is clear that the Ministry does not close and open shops unless this was the case on your day. But I have the impression that this is not the case. As regards the universal service, which you mentioned before for the 15 million, this was also done with an amendment from my predecessor. He brought it to the House. I have it here, in his article 'EUR2day': 'up to EUR 15 million per year for the period 2013-2015 alone and not EUR 50 million per year will receive the 'Greek Posts S.A.' for the universal service. This provision is contained in an amendment tabled to the draft Broadband Act by the Minister for Digital Policy, Mr. Papas." The only reason I ask you is not because we hide. The plan is drawn up by the shareholder and the Ministry of Finance and we are involved. I'm asking you to know where to send the bill. In any case, what applies to recruitment as a whole is that this is the responsibility of negotiations and discussions at the highest level and with the European institutions. Obviously the ultimate right now also has a very important role to play in this debate as shareholder, obviously there is, as I said before, a private shareholder and it is a given that this debate really needs to be run quickly. We didn't find anything ready when the new administration took over. So right now we're supposed to run fast to rescue the organism. What I can assure you about is that it will do everything it takes to save the Agency, despite the fact that we are talking - and that is what I want to make clear in general - of an agency that is currently losing up to EUR 6 million per month. So the situation is difficult. And of course I'm also filing in the Minutes the list of seventy stores I mentioned earlier, twenty of which were replaced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Economic Affairs, Development and Investment, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and State have tabled a draft law on 31-1-2020: 'Structuring it from 24.12.2019 BC. “Urgent arrangements to increase the amount of the social dividend for 2019, to extend the extrajudicial debt adjustment mechanism and to extend the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices (A'212) and other provisions”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We continue with the third, with number 436/28-1-2020, a top-level question from the Member of the Istanbul Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Papanastasis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following the Vonitsas Special Elementary School with permanent educational and special staff". The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is a Special Municipal School in Vonica Aitolokarnania, which is a structure designed to serve children who require special education and reside in Vonica and surrounding areas. The conditions at this school - and that is the view of parents and local society - are characterised by a succinctly unacceptable and inhumane situation. The main cause of this situation is the lack of even the minimum staff needed to operate, i.e. even a special teacher. It is precisely this deficiency that is a brake on its uninterrupted operation, with incalculable and possibly irreversible consequences - you are a teacher, I think you are better aware of it than me - in the specific educational and educational needs of these children. At the beginning of October, the Special School of Vonitsas was closed, as his only teacher was on sick leave. In the logic of the 'bulk' - I really do not think it can be described as otherwise - an educational teacher from the inclusion section of another primary school was transferred to this school at a distance of thirty-five kilometres, which, of course, abandoned the part he supported in this village. All this time until yesterday and despite the successive recruitment of alternates, no special treatment teacher was placed to fill the gaps not only in Vonica, but also in all the special structures of the area. In addition, in the previous period, this teacher also had to obtain a sick leave, and so again the Vonitsa Special Elementary School remained closed for two weeks. I don't know if it's random, but just today a teacher in the middle of the year was placed there, who, from what we have heard, is a general education and not a specialist, as he should have placed the Ministry. It is understandable that even if he exaggerates himself, his work will not even meet the basic requirements because he has not been trained for it. Moreover, the fact that he's alone and that at any time he can be absent, as a result will have the school legally to close again. In our view, all this is part of the government's policy of conscious and drunken depreciation of public and free benefits to the people and workers, unfortunately also in this area. We are asking you what measures - and I refer to effective measures - the government intends to take for the immediate and effective operation of the Vonitsa Special Elementary School, with the recruitment of all the necessary - and not a permanent specialist pedagogical and auxiliary staff, but also the full staffing of all the special structures - the integration departments of the region by permanent training staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u28	The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis, has the floor for her protagonism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this issue, which I am sure is something we have been dealing with since the beginning of the year and with the Vonitsa Special School. I will prove to you how, because it is something which you are referring to obviously can escape. I would therefore like to remind you. Let me start by informing the House that as far as recruitment to special education is concerned, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs has so far made available to all the operational needs five thousand two hundred thirty-one credit for the recruitment of specialist, special assistant staff, three thousand nine hundred forty-two even by 4 September. In general terms, and despite the initial assessment you made of the situation of special schools in general, this year a very large number of appropriations have been allocated, and I do not want to look forward to any situation, Mr Papoutsis. And I shall refer to this immediately afterwards. Of the total appropriations for the Regional Directorate of Western Greece, three hundred forty-eight appropriations were allocated, a larger number than every other year. In particular, for the Vonitsa Special School, teachers have been assigned IP11, Physical Education, i.e. IT, and for special education, social worker, psychologist, and a permanent member of special assistant staff, who there serves by secondment. I am now going to the specific issue of the gap which is, anyway, the essence of your question. On 14 October, the Deputy Special Opposition Teacher requested and, as a right, obtained a sick leave as a result of threatened pregnancy. On 16 October, a special action teacher who took over a service was placed there, but made use of the right to raise children and left. On November 6, with the decision of the Primary Education Director of Aetolokarnania, a provisionally permanent teacher of education was moved to the University of Vonitsa School of Integration - you mentioned it already - who is established with the Vonitsas Special Elementary School and on the same day the teacher applied for a sick leave and did not undertake a service. On November 15, he moved to Vonitsa Special Elementary School, a special education teacher from the school-leaving department to teach at this school and to meet this need arising from the continuous, as you have seen, efforts to fill this gap with a new intake by the Ministry of Education. In order to meet this need which emerged in the accession section - you have raised it a moment ago - a new deputy was hired in the last phase of recruitment on 27 January 2020, which took over a service - you mentioned it before - in this school unit so that the assistant teacher can return to its initial position. I therefore think that the successive and ongoing efforts made by the Aeolokarnania Primary Education Department - and I would like to continue to encourage the address there, as it has already done, to meet the needs, when and as they arise - and also from the regional administration and, of course, the central agency - were giving immediate solutions to this issue. In any case, I shall analyse this matter, Mr Papoutsis, in secondary terms, how the Ministry intends to deal with the appointments and the timetable, which will be given the opportunity to present immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u30	The MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Papapastasis, has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the briefing. There is one element which, if you wish, is also annoying the active process that you are talking about to make up for these losses, but also the opposition criticism that I am currently making in government policy, and that is the reality itself. The school was closed, and I think that's what we have to stand by to evaluate this situation as well. It is important that the teacher has already been placed today. It was literally in the middle of the school year, and unfortunately - and I shall be getting a little general - the situation in special schools, with the responsibility of the government, once again, is that it excludes children from the process of learning in the most vague way with special educational needs, learning difficulties and disabilities. Unfortunately, the consequences of this policy on their later lives are tragic and irreparable. Unfortunately, it is not just the presence of teachers and you know that very well. Scientific staff are required - therapists, therapists, psychologists, social workers, musicians, visual and theatrical education - as well as special assistant staff, as provided for in the full staffing of these schools. What are you doing about it? Our view is that you do nothing. The policy followed by the New Democracy Government fully substantiates - and this is so painful, unfortunately, for the people's families - that your government, like the previous one, is consistently serving a normality that these children want to be the beneficiaries of a delayed, incomplete and often complete the school year without any scientific and pedagogical assistance being provided to them. This is, unfortunately, the development for all evangelized by the New Democracy, which replaced the fair growth made by SYRIZA. The fact that even at this time no special school operates in full-time lack of staff - I stress 'to full-time development' - as a result of reduced credits has reduced auxiliary staff, special scientific and special teaching staff, speaks for themselves. Given these shortcomings, families are forced to bear the cost of supporting their children. This is the, otherwise, public school. They are forced and hired privately, which has literally flooded schools, especially in general. But was that the only cost to parents? Of course not! There is a huge number of children forced to go to afternoon private centers to make the necessary costly interventions and their majority, unfortunately, are children of popular labour families, with very limited incomes. Is that the public school? Let us also add to the image of subsidization the poor housing situation of special schools. They are hosted in old buildings, prefabricated rooms or intensities housed in rooms that are available in general schools, making everyday life for both pupils and workers unbasic, banning fundamentally any scientific and pedagogical intervention. Our appreciation is that today's ministry, taking the spoon from the previous government, implements the law on new structures with regard to special education. This law also hampers the diagnosis process and makes general education in principle and universally responsible for supporting children with special educational needs. Only if the child fails to act will the child become part of a time-consuming process which is literally at the expense of him in another context, possibly a special school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u32	The State Secretary, Mr Zacharakis, has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u33	Mr Papoutsis, with concrete steps and concrete actions and actions, I have analysed how the Ministry centrally and regionally in our addresses has tried to meet this need. Because you have spoken of the special educational and special assistant staff, indeed crucial in meeting the needs of children in special education, but also in general, with support, I will come back with numbers on the parallel support to see the registration record that we have given this year by the Ministry of Education, but also the credits that have been allocated - more than ever - for what we see actually evolving. This number of authorisations for parallel support is changing. It is obviously a debate which, perhaps, Parliament should take as a whole on the subject of special education, namely how we should deal with the issue of parallel support for the integration regions as well. However, because you spoke about the reality - and this is a good thing to talk about it - is it not a reality that for the first time appointments are going on in special education? Is it not true that in December the final tables for the special educational and special assistant staff were posted, people who are to be appointed, and we also expect the results - why does it depend, you know, on the number of applications, on the AACC - on the third and the great proclamation for teachers? It is a reality, Mr Papoutsis. For the first time, after years, the government proceeded with a process which it considered should be prioritised. You know that he had started from the previous political leadership, and we have also expressed our objections to the notice, but we have given as a priority the good of children and said that, yes, we are going to appoint four and a half thousands of people, teachers of special education staff and special assistants, for the sake of special education, education and the good of our children in particular. And you know that very well - because you have all spoken about education needs - that we are moving on to general education with two important notices, which are currently "current" for primary and secondary education, which will provide us with fifteen thousand people in the next few years in public education, the public school, which we need so much, to strengthen human resources and enrich it. We take all the issues into account. And for the building you know very well that this is about the municipalities. However, we do not stop talking wherever we go, the Minister and I, with the municipalities and structures there, with all the structures of support and with school units, so that we can resolve the issues of special education and general education in terms of school units. So there's no social sensitivity prerogative. We are all ahead of the problem, and we are all facing it as a whole, but we are not going to blame the efforts that have been made so far, with a record of recruitment to substitutes, above every other time, with a record of approvals to parallel support, with a record of credits for both special educational and special staff and for the first time with appointments, after ten years, and special education and general education. And we are here, of course, to discuss individual issues whenever necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u34	The sixth question, under number 397/20-1-2020, on the second question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouliakos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "African reactions of Greek authors to the policy of copyright of the Ministry of Culture and Sport" and the seventh with number 400/21-1-20, a top second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: "What developments around copyright of composers and lyrics", which refer to the same subject, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, in application of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. These two questions, which are identical, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Lina Mendoni. I give the floor first to Mr Panagiotis Skourikos for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. In recent years we have received the strong reactions of the Greek creators who have emerged because the Minister of Culture and Sport and the administration of the Copyright Agency have not licensed the new body for collective management of the intellectual rights of SARM. The Minister of Culture is prevented from going beyond the law, while he has in her hands since last August a positive opinion from the previous administration of the Intellectual Property Organization and does not sign the ministerial decision that is required to authorize the new Collective Management Agency that created all Greek creators in order to be able to manage their intellectual rights on their own. At the same time, the new administration of the Intellectual Property Organization has authorized a private company of intellectual property management, without even posting the repertoire it represents. We fear that the aim is to bring Greek creators back to the path of private interests that have been struggling for decades in their spiritual property, and we mean the unfamiliar memory of GDPI. The Minister of Culture and Sport had stated in a timely question to the House that he would immediately sign the authorisation of the new Organisation of Collective Management, which represents the entire Greek song. Since then, it has not signed the Ministerial Decision in question. On the basis of the above, the Minister asks whether he intends to authorize the Collective Management Organisation of the EMCDDA, which will be managed by Greek creators and operated in accordance with European standards, or whether he will lead them to the hands of private interests. This vile, dark landscape of copyright, Mr President, has come to deal with it during the previous parliamentary term, the SYRIZA government, creating the law - for the first time in our country since 1930 - of copyright. After the closure of the'since' - as we say - GFCF created the Special Emergency Management Agency, and now the creators have their own body ready. The New Democracy and the current Prime Minister before the elections had promised that they would proceed with the authorisation. They didn't. They were stalled and they're still stalling. The authors themselves denounced that it could develop in parallel with the preparation of a transition from the EEAS to the ETUC, the viability report requested by the Minister, without anything coming up and without any need at all, just to delay. The creators themselves say that Mrs. Mendonis is making time at their expense. We are talking about all the repertoire of the Greek song, all the creators, musicians, lyrics. It's the whole repertoire, and we don't trust that this repertoire can support a company. This morning the creators submitted the sustainability report to both the Ministry and the Intellectual Property Organisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u36	Finish it, Mr. Darkness. You'll tell your dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u37	I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. The protocol number at the Ministry is 41044 and dated 3-2-2020. We hope that the licence will be issued shortly, the signature will fall and this report will not be forgotten - which the authors have created in a credible office - in the drawers of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr. Delis, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the Xanthi Music School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At the moment, you are not following legislative work, but so-called parliamentary control, where the Member is asking questions and the Minister is answering. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to add here that the question concerns the rights of musical creators, senators and performers of the entire Greek song. In this respect, we believe that this is a very important question on a very important issue which concerns the Greek people anyway, since the Greek song is, in our view, an element of its modern identity. Madam Minister, as you can see, after today's developments the content of the question we have tabled has, of course, been changed. So today - for those who are listening to us - the creators, the people of the Association of Rightful Greek Musicians, the establishment under which their rights are collectively managed, the intellectual property sustainability report, and the Ministry and the organization. It therefore disappears - we think - and the last excuse that the Ministry could invoke for the authorisation of the SAR, as is summarised in summary form. So our position, Minister, is, if you have not already done so, to sign the authorisation of the Association of Rightful Members of Greek Music and, of course, to proceed immediately to the joint adoption of the joint ministerial decision with the Ministry of Finance under No 4481. The Greek creators have been afflicted very much over the past few years. Some of them have reached the last signs of poverty. We must say here that, in particular, the stigmatists have no other way of supporting, revenue from the collection of these rights. They can't show up to do anything else. And I'm specifically talking about stigmats. We therefore want to hear good things from you, Minister. We want you to tell us that you have signed them, that you have started this process, of course by implementing a law. And here I would like to say, since there is a peculiar debate during this procedure, that this law passed in 2017 by the SYRIZA Government was in application of a directive of the European Union not to protect the rights of authors, but to create all those conditions so that capitalist businesses operate in these rights. That is why the provisions of this SYRIZA law are scandalous with regard to the independent management entities, namely individuals - to say things by their name - where the state's behaviour is really with the glove, and it is particularly strict with the Collective Management Organisations, that is, there, that the authors themselves will take care of and collect their rights. We expect with anxiety, Minister, to hear your position, as the creators expect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u40	The Minister for Culture and Sport, Mrs Lina Mendoni, has the floor for six minutes to answer colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank both Members for their question, because they give me the opportunity, once again, to address the issue of the management of copyright and, in particular, the issue of the authorisation of the Collective Management Agency - a Union of Rightholders of SAR. Obviously this is a very important issue, because it is about a lot of people, because it is about the Greek song, which - as you said - is of course part of our identity. But let's take things a little from the start. Of course, the sustainability report was submitted to the Ministry at noon. We'll talk about it. First of all, I think we can agree on two things. The main question is that the state should follow a procedure that is lawful, efficient and effective for the functioning of each Organisation of Collective Management for the benefit of authors and in terms of transparency and accountability. And that, not only because the space has been injured in the recent past - I am referring to GNI - but above all because collective management organisations do not promote their own interests, but they manage the authors' money on behalf of the authors. On the other hand, there are also users, except for authors. They are businesses and organisations that need musical creation, in order to perform their role, businesses that offer jobs, contribute to tax burdens, etc. They also deserve - and rightly so - to have an organisation or collective management organisations, which are reliable and, above all, transparent in their operation. I think we can agree on that. And to start now with the issues that you have put the questions about. First of all, with regard to Mr Skouriakou's first question: ask your question that I am being prevented from going beyond the law. So let's see what the law says, your law, n. SYRIZA's 4481/2017, and what the Ministry did. So I read verbatim, saying: "The organisation concerned..." - Article 4(2) - "... shall be required before it commences its operation to submit an application to the IPO, together with the following elements: the amount of the management costs, as well as any other information requested by the Ministry of Culture and Sport or the IPO, on ensuring the viability and effectiveness of the Agency's operation." In Article 3: ‘... if the conditions of this Law are met and it appears that the organisation is viable’. There is no need for a special legal analysis to see - good faithful and poorly trusted - that the viability of the Collective Management Agency is a key element that the Ministry should check on granting the licence. And not just sustainable, but obviously sustainable. With such intensity, SYRIZA legislated the requirement of sustainability and I agree with it, because an unsustainable body does not have the capacity to manage effectively. So he's destructive and harmful to creators. How is this sustainability gained, how is it ensured? The explanatory statement of the law itself comes and says, "To investigate the viability of the applicant organisation, the OPI or the Ministry may request the submission of other information, such as an operational plan or other relevant studies", i.e. a viability study. It is therefore precisely what we have asked for, a sustainability study, when we are all aware of the projects and the days of GDP, whose practices have damaged the space. Here, then, is why we ask for self-evident, we ask for what the law requires. It is not for reasons of selfishness, but for the rights of authors to be truly guaranteed. What is not mentioned and is not heard anywhere is that the SAR requesting authorisation to manage millions of euros in rights has made its application with two hundred and sixty-nine members and a chapter of EUR 9,500. It is clear, therefore, that the Ministry of Culture, the OPI and the Minister must ask for more information, which they seem to have submitted today. From there on, you say that the previous administration of the OPI had issued a positive opinion on the authorisation of the EMRP. Again, I would remind you that Law 4481/2017 gives the Minister the decisive authority rather than the OPI. If the legislator wanted to make a decision, it would give him decisive authority. But that was not the case. While the opinion of the OPCW, which you refer to, is detailed in all the other points, especially in the field of sustainability, merely quoted provisions without specific consideration, without justification for such a serious issue. So things are not that simple. From there on, for the next time, which you say, ODI licensed a private interest company to lead Greek creators back on the road to private interests, I would like to say this: I, too, amazed because you say that when you, at least, had to know very well, that the Collective Management Agency was not licensed, but an independent management entity was notified. It's two completely different legal structures. In the case of the autonomous entity, there is no collective management obligation. It applies only to authors who have assigned the relevant right to that entity. I shall therefore conclude by saying that, of course, at noon today, the requested sustainability study was submitted by the SAR. This study will be audited, as audited by the OPI, which will suggest in this respect. After all, the fact that on Friday the board of the Intellectual Property Organisation also decided to fund the sustainability study clearly shows the intentions of both the OPI and the Ministry. I think it is clear why the sustainability study was requested when it was always under the law and was not at the discretion of anyone and any Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Mr. Skoulakou has the floor for three minutes for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I think you are questioning our basic understanding. And I'm not talking about me, a humble congressman who came here to convey the demands of the Greek creators. I'm talking about the universe of Greek creators. Truly, how relevant should someone be as Minister of Culture to understand that where the law of SYRIZA says that the organisation is viable, is the organisation manifestly viable? And he has against him, as I said, the universe of Greek creators. At the press conference that the creators gave, they were everyone there. 'ASMA 450+', 'METron', 'OSOMSE', 'HERVANCE', everybody! How well-known should a Minister of Culture be, so that when he has all the Greek creators he doubts that he is viable an organization that they create? That is what this "speakingly" of the law of SYRIZA, Minister. But it doesn't surprise us. Your attitude to the subject is directly consistent with your entire government's policy on all issues. Do him, delete, make the opposite of what you promised, from the Prespecies Agreement and the Greek Buddhists would enter the first week, up to the minimum wage and the protection of first residence. And here you promised the creators. The creative delegation to Mr Mitsotakis has gone and you take them out on a television election trick in the New Democracy. You promised them, and now you're whistling indifferently. And you do not understand that it manifestly results from all these people that an organisation that is sustainable! So, I ask you to shorten this story, not to fugitive, not to hide, not to try to convince us that we are all lobsters. The sustainability report has been tabled and - I repeat - I hope that it will not be tangled in your offices in drawers and hammers, as they say in the public eye! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. Mr. Delis has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u45	Before judging the commitment of the Minister to the present sustainability report - I will say it at the end - I think I need to make a little comment on the unsuccessful attempt by the Minister to justify a paralysing tactic followed by the Ministry of Culture in relation to the case of Greek music creators. This is a paradoxical tactic in which the Ministry of Culture, Mrs. Minister, has exhausted all his rigour and tolerance towards the creators of the Greek song. At the same time, however, there were too many coincidences at the same time. At the same time, these manifested themselves. Firstly, there has been the withdrawal of the two-month licence for an intellectual property collection agency - 'AUTODICATION' - which was, of course, cancelled after an application for 'AUTODICATION' by the Council of State. Secondly, valuable time has been given throughout this time to establish and enter dynamically - at least in theory - an independent management entity, a private person, namely who wants to become GDPI, so that we can understand each other. The third coincidence is that another LOD has been established. She's in the founding stool, too. It appears that they'smelled roast'. And what are they using, Minister? They are making use of the delays in issuing the licence for the Collective Self-Management Organisation of the authors themselves, where, as we have said, the Ministry is very strict. On the contrary, for an AEO only one simple notification - you say it - and everything starts immediately. Of course, the responsibility is not yours. You, the law of SYRIZA, apply this, the law of SYRIZA says this, that is, the European directive, so that we can get to know each other. I would like to give some characteristic examples of how this law, which you, too, are dealing with, deals with these agencies. First of all, as I said in my protology, it enables them - not to say that it obliges them, that is to say, the ETUC to act as a capitalist company - to invest up to 50% of their gambling and stock market revenues. Because it's a gambling stock. On the other hand, all these sustainability reports, the transparency reports you ask of an Agency for Collective Self-Management of the authors themselves, are suddenly not in the hands of an AGE. That's where they don't need these. A simple notification is enough to proceed. I say this to see the bias of the law, the bias of politics which you and SYRIZA and the European Union are following towards the creators. Let us say, of course, that, after all, we think that it is a pretext - yes, with all the importance of this word - the Government's interest in creators, for the interests, is supposed to be the creators, when your projects prove that for others, this policy works and serves. As far as we are concerned, as a Communist Party and in the discussion of the law in the summer of 2017, we were opposed to any establishment of an independent management entity - that is, with private individuals, with a new GDP - and we said that the creators have every right, themselves, collectively, to self-manage their rights arising from their own creation and, of course, to be able to manage them without anyone above their heads. That is what we want and we hope, Minister, as regards what you have said - and I am now entering what I promised - that this sustainability report will be audited, that this monitoring will not last too long. We hope this will be done as soon as possible - the life and the state of the Ministry in the same time was not the best - so that this Agency for Collective Self-Management, the EMCDDA, can finally function and resurrect, in any case, these creators will be distracted in their work - you know, Madam Minister, there is this side - for which we are all the rest of us who listen to them and rejoice and have fun with their songs. We must therefore solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u46	The Minister for Culture and Sport, Mrs Mendoni, has the floor for her denology for a total of six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I admit that this is a new legal interpretation by Mr Skouriakou, who considers that obvious sustainability is controlled on the basis of how many creators are present at a press conference, not how many creators have been included - their names - in the application. I repeat that these makers are two hundred sixty-nine. I'm not saying they're not representative, but don't talk about the system. Secondly, I repeat and I will not be tired of repeating that what we have asked for, the sustainability study and which the SSR has produced today, is dictated by the provisions of the 2017 Act. It is the same law that provides for the certification of the independent entity. It is neither our initiative nor the initiative of the government of this particular country. It is the law of 2017, which for the independent entity only requires certification. It requires nothing else, no sustainability study, nothing. The viability study of the 2017 Act requires it by the Collective Management Organisations. So let's go down. It is precisely because it is required by the Collective Management Organisations in May 2018, the then Minister, Ms. Konordos, accepted the ODI's recommendation and rejected the request by the urban non-profit company ‘Cologne’ to obtain an AEOD licence, on the grounds - among other things - that the entity's viability is not established. Here, in other words, there was no problem because sustainability was requested. Sustainability is problematic because we are asking it now, not for any other reason, but to ensure the creators themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u48	The OPI has expressed itself positively.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u49	The OPI has not been expressed at all positively, Mr. Darkness. Because in a seven-page report - his 8-8-2019 report - he does not even go into sustainability.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u50	The board of directors you stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u51	As you have already said before, of course, the same procedure, with the same rules, as the same rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u52	This administrative board, therefore, has expressed itself positively. That's why you stopped it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u53	From there on, the SCA has produced the viability study today. This study will therefore be examined by the OPI, which, based on the provisions of the law, will suggest how we will proceed from now on. And to go to Mr. Delis, let me say this. With regard to the revocation of the two months to the "AUTODINANIZATION" - it was effectively revoked because the "AUTODINANIZATION" sought and won the insurance measures in the Council of State, the legal procedure was not completed - it was made on the basis of a finding requested by the previous government and by the previous board of the OPI, which found particular malfunctions in the way "AUTODICATION" was approached by the Collective Management Agency, which approached its distributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u54	I mentioned it as a chain of incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u55	I agree. I don't say it differently, too. We are now going to your second question: what is going on from there? The first stage, then, is to get the Minister of Culture's decision on licensing. From there on, in accordance with Law 4181, Article 51A(8) provides that a joint decision of the Ministers for Culture and Sport and Finance shall be transferred the competence of the special service to the successor Organisation for Collective Management and shall regulate the valuation issues of the data transferred and the method of payment of any amount arising from the successor body to the IMI. In other words, the law stipulates that the assets of the EEAS are first valued, then transferred to the new entity and, finally, the new entity pays the corresponding amount to the Intellectual Property Organisation. So what I can assure you once again - and that is what we are saying from the outset - is that our will is that our will is that the new vehicle should be based, supported in its operation, not for the sake of itself, but for the sake of the creators it represents. So once the OPI will study and recommend the sustainability report presented at noon, the licensing procedure will be followed, if all is well. From there on, this joint ministerial decision will come out. I would stress that, at the initiative of the Intellectual Property Organisation, control over the EEAS has been initiated so that the management and payment of the rights owed to the beneficiaries so far and the assets available can also be transferred. This check has already begun and is carried out at the initiative of the Ministry of Culture and the Intellectual Property Organization precisely so as not to delay the second leg any longer. This does not mean that not all the procedures under the SYRIZA law of 2017 will be complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u56	We continue with the third under No 416/23-1-2020 topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Constantinople to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The granting of a single and undivided postgraduate degree to graduates from the Department of Musical Studies of the Ionian University". Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I think you are aware of this. And you know that the deadline has expired today. So I'm sure we'll have an answer for all those kids who listen to us. What is the provision of a uniform and undivided postgraduate degree? This was institutionalised by Law 4885/2017 and the procedure was for the Ionian University to submit the request to the Ministry of Education, in order to issue an accreditation decision, published in FEK. This was done by the NRP and the IRP and the relevant operation has already been adopted. No act has been adopted for the Ionian University. I don't want to go into detail who sent, what he sent, because I think we have to solve the problem. We'll have the possibility of dentistry. The point is, based on my briefing, it was three months in Mr. Digalakis' office. And so, unfortunately, the sixty days have passed, so we have the following topics today: First, without any fault of any of their own, the graduates of the Ionian University of Musical Studies will eventually rank in the upcoming relevant table of the AACC in erroneous rankings, since it is not possible to calculate their molecules in relation to the EMCDDA and the AMP. Secondly, it will be disadvantaged toward the other graduates of the HEIs. Of course, because there is, Minister, an issue of equality, as you can see, these graduates will insult the process in the courts and we will probably have great delays in recruitment. Once the NRP and the NRP have gone ahead, what is it that stopped it for the Ionian University and what do you intend to do to solve it? Today, at 14.00 hours, the deadline for CSCE has expired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u58	The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, has the floor to answer Mr. Konstantinopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for your question. You are right that the NRV and the NRV had been approved in a similar case. However, they had been submitted much earlier. The relevant acts were adopted, and the act we are discussing was submitted much later. In order to prevent, however, from having a debate - and because people are watching us at the moment - I would like to make it clear that everything that has to do with these conditions is obviously the AACC. I want to inform you that, because there are more general delays in other areas as well - IATAP, for example, is a body that, in order to be honest, for many years now, has had huge delays, major bureaucratic clashes - I have made a proposal to the AACC - obviously the final decision is left to the AACC - to enable the candidates to produce all the documents relating to their candidacy and during the period of objections, so until the final table is formulated. And I repeat that this also concerns the case of this intergrade master, and more generally, other delays that exist and, for example, multiannual ones, such as the IATA. The other day in the House I mentioned a case of an IATAP candidate who filed her papers in 2016 to find out at the end of 2019 that the dossier was not and should have submitted it at the beginning of the day. There are huge problems over time, great pathogens. That is why I have recommended and proposed to the competent body, which is the AACC - given that our Government went ahead and made this courageous move to proceed with these permanent appointments - that candidates should be able to produce the relevant documents up to the time of objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u60	Mr Constantinople has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u61	I have the evidence, which says that on 5-8-2019 the Ionian University submitted a request. I have and submit the extrajudicial statement of protest - call to the Deputy Minister of Education Mr. Vassilis Digalakis from the Association of Graduates of Musical Studies of the Ionian University. [[At this point, the Member and the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] Again, on 5-8-2019, this was filed. I also want to tell you - I think it is important for you to see it too - that the five hundred graduates have been in contact with the Ministry and the Ministry, through the Secretariat and Mr Digalakis, made sure that this issue is resolved. Now, however, there is one issue, Minister. I understand you and I understand that you have spoken with the ASA, that a request has been made from the Ministry of Education. If these people stay out, they're five hundred people. If, therefore, they are left out because they have been delayed, the other one has been delayed, that is a problem which is not about one and two people, but about hundreds of people. So I say that there should be consultation with the Ministry of the Interior, with those responsible, so that this process can proceed. I'm going to ask the interior ministry a question. However, we cannot take responsibility now if Mr Georgios, as he says here - and I will testify, it is a surname testimonial - continued to confirm that the issue will be resolved in time and that he would urge us to break down the postgraduate degree in the electronic application of the AACC. That's a reality. [[At this point, the Member and the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] So I understand and I understand that you don't have an issue, and I'm sure there's no way these people might want to stay outside. I understand that. There are good intentions, but the point is how we complete the process. So I would ask that there should also be consultation with the Ministry of the Interior, with those responsible, so that there can be a 'delay' - I quote the word - so that the certificate can be accepted. But you didn't tell us: is this over by you, by the Ministry of Education? So, the process of granting the single and undivided postgraduate degree is completed by the Ministry of Education? So it's too easy, Minister, with a simple circular or simple setting that we can bring this week into a law to change for twenty days a day. It will be accepted by all parties. Nothing more so that there's no problem. Personally, I think you don't have any issues. To resolve the issue today and to give these five hundred nine people the opportunity to have the same conditions as the others. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u62	The Minister for Education, Mrs Kerameou, has the floor for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President, my colleague. As I said before, in exactly the same case was the NRP and the NRP. There they have been approved because they have made much earlier the demands. There have been issues of lack of competence. These, I think, have been published in the press too. There were issues of lack of competence with regard to the submission of the request. The request is found in that independent authority for processing. As I said, however, let's stick to the point. And what's the real thing? The essential thing is that I have already asked the competent independent body, if they can, to consider it. And I can tell you again that it is not just about the intergraid master, because this is a small relative case in relation to other cases that are really long delays, such as, for example, the IATA. Since our Government has moved on to permanent appointments and we thought it was right to move ahead and quickly, in order to draw up the new tables, for that very reason, everything that has to do with delays in the presentation of documents which are necessary for the candidacy and which can help the candidacy, the suggestion - and I will exhaust it, I assure you - to the ADP and to the relevant ministry that I have mentioned, that is to say, that the candidates can produce these documents throughout the period and the objections, which give a very significant extension to the matter, if accepted, to those candidates. I repeat that there are many issues. There is the IATAP issue, which is really a long time delay there. This government will do everything it can to ensure that, with this very positive measure of permanent appointments, it is possible for them to genuinely submit candidates and be objectively judged as many candidates as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u64	We continue with the fifth under No 442/28-1-2020 topical question of the second-round question of the MP Drama of the Change Movement Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "What is your government's plan and national strategy for improving education in our country?" The current question will be answered again by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good month, good week. Recent studies carried out by the European Union, by OSCE, from ‘PISA’ 2018, by the GSP Institute of GATT, by ‘DIANEOS’ confirm that the school results are poor. They also confirm that our country has a low position in the middle performance of its students. At the same time, they are hitting the alarm over the quality of our education. They all come together to just one conclusion: our educational system is ill and severely ill. He does not respond adequately to his role. It does not form and form active and thinking citizens. It does not go hand in hand with the new challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. In simple terms, the Greek education system does not contribute to the country's productive and social reconstruction. On the one hand, it is the abolition of the National Education Council, which you know very well has weakened national dialogue, undermined consensus, strengthened partyism and undermined the education services provided. On the other hand, the dismantling of education administration structures, the abolition of the full-day primary school with a single reformed educational programme, the abolition of model and experimental schools, the freezing of new analytical programs in high school, the transformation of the general high school into a schoolroom of HEIs, the abolition of any evaluation of the educational system is regrettable SYRIZA policies, but still here. Any fragmentary interventions you can't manage to serve the objective of equal access to quality education services. And to be specific: Do we agree that recording from the investigations is accurate and reflects reality? If so, what do you have to say about the National Education Council? We think it should work already. We are still waiting for the new map of higher education. We insist on the single space of HEI and research. How about you? Repeatedly, we hear announcements of structures and management of schools. What do you intend to do and when to restore the institution of school advisors, to create education structures and programmes for teachers? SYRIZA, you know he dismantled what was in their training. How much do you think you can delay? What do you intend to do with the change in the curriculum? You're gonna make use of the work done and paid? By 2014, this story was made and SYRIZA ministers froze it and left it in drawers. Now, there is a new elected president in the EPA. Is the taxpayer's money going missing? How, especially after the vote on Article 50 on colleges, do you intend to deal with the question of teachers' recruitment? Will you do them on the basis of teaching competence or teaching experience from apprenticeship? Or will you do them on the basis of participation through ASP competitions, fair pre-service acceptance, transparent social criteria? If so, how - and when - will you ensure these? And here, once you decide what you want, you need to answer what kind and what quality of teachers you want for the children of all Greeks, not just the privileged. From what action plan will we see the strengthening of pre-school treatment? Where's the special plan to create kindergartens? With the full-day graduation program 8.00 -14.00, which is of great importance to the Greek family, what are you doing? When are you waiting? You are announcing a strengthening of knowledge with certificates of language learning and digital skills and we are telling you: "Become specific". With regard to the completion of basic education with absolute examinations in the Third High School and the certification of computer and English, where are these? We were pleased to announce the restoration of the educational character of high school - new timetables, national sanitation, bank of topics - but we are waiting for specialization. Where is he? What have you planned to strengthen vocational training? You know better than anyone that productive reconstruction of the country without strong vocational education is simply not done. Go on to the establishment of new areas in the PESA, the universal implementation of the fourth year of apprenticeship, with the award of professional level 5 rights, and we are here to support you with our own policies. When are you planning to operate new pilot schools and, of course, standards of professional high school techniques? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I close, asking about planning to join the ESDP 2020-2025, the issues of the special treatment of minorities and refugees. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u66	That was a question, not a question, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u67	It's all very condensed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u68	Madam Minister, here you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, my fellow Member, for your question. You understand that we cannot develop all the education programme that we have in the two minutes that I am given in this timely question. My answer will have two legs. Firstly, with regard to the cross-party dialogue on education, we really believe it, and that is why it did not take a few weeks when we took over the leadership of the Ministry of Education and we immediately called on all of Parliament's parties to launch this essential, thorough dialogue. I am very happy to say that all parties were presented except for Mera25. I do not know, let Mrs Sacurafa then tell us why they did not participate in this dialogue. In any case - and to render things the way they are - you personally and as the head of your party have come three or four times, if I'm not mistaken, to the Ministry and you have systematically tabled proposals. In fact, in the last bill you have tabled fertile improvements to the bill, which we invaded and incorporated. We believe in dialogue and that is why we serve him. I will not stay with the body, because for me the essence is dialogue in itself, the exchange of views, the improvement of the work produced, and not so much the body on the basis of which this policy is being implemented. I say this because the ESS, to which you refer, you know that it had a heavy structure, a bureaucratic structure, I would say. We want to serve the dialogue and we will constantly pursue it, within Parliament and outside Parliament. I say again that this dialogue has already yielded to a large extent, because we have incorporated proposals that have been made to us by all the parties involved in it. I shall now refer to the programme as long as I can, Mr President, because you can understand that the whole programme of education is too extensive. I do not remember any other opposition party having presented in such detail the detailed education programme. We have already done this since November 2018 in very great detail and we have already started implementing this programme. You have referred to research - and you are right - which shows that our country has time-consuming diseases regarding its educational system. What do these surveys show, for example? They show that our country has not developed sufficiently mild skills, such as critical thinking. What does it show, too? When one invests in pre-school education, in systematic pre-school education than before, the indicators improve. That is why our first concern, when we arrived at the Ministry, was how we will implement the two-year compulsory pre-school education, which we believe and support. However, the previous government did not secure the necessary appropriations or the necessary infrastructure. However, we have succeeded and currently applied to 71% of the country's pre-school education. And this is a huge achievement, for which we have had to fight in cooperation with all the municipalities, in order to ensure, above all, infrastructure issues. So we started from two-year-old pre-school education. We have taken the appointing issue very quickly. There have never been permanent appointments to special education before, more than ten years of appointments to general education have been made, and these have gone from us. We immediately strengthened standards and experimental schools. Immediately we released school units from bureaucracy, such as, for example, regarding school excursions. Yes, we introduced the state certificate of Informatics, because we believe in strengthening digital skills and, yes, we look at soft skills, such as critical thinking. How? For example, the FPI is already studying the introduction of the multiple book, so that children can have many to combine to develop their critical thinking and not focus on page 5 until page 7 in each lesson. With regard to vocational education and training, we have already resolved key operational issues that we received from the previous government: Remunerated trainers for long periods of time. We have given a solution to the question of vocational training centres and to higher education. We have immediately liberated the universities from the excessive bureaucracy and, if you like, the overregulation imposed by the previous government. We have once again given the universities competences, for example, in relation to the degree courses. We restored asylum in its true sense, asylum of ideas, not asylum of violence and lawlessness. We have freed the PPE, the most progressive provision that has perhaps ever been made in relation to these research funds, a genuine bureaucratic hardship for universities. We have provided additional funding to universities, EUR 22 million for 2019. We've opened our universities in the world. By the end of March we came to our country universities abroad, to explore further cooperation with the Greek universities, and we evolved, we strengthened the independent principle of higher education, the evaluation of our institutions, the certification of our institutions, and, yes, we put order in a chronic illness, which said that state funding until first was given as every minister found arbitrary. And, yes, we have set objective criteria and, yes, we have set quality criteria and I welcome the fact that KINAL has voted in favour of this provision, which takes us a step further. It is a great deal, Mr President, and I will keep the rest for my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u70	Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, in advance, thank you for your tolerance. Indeed, this is a huge but also extremely interesting matter and I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u72	It was a complete question, too. And because I come from the field of education, I understand it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u73	Be well. Madam Minister, I really thank you today for your presence and for your positions and I am pleased that the Ministry has intended. I just want to point out that the dialogue that you see so much talk about must be institutionalised. Another is the exchange of views in meetings, which are indeed systematic and many, and another is the national dialogue, which everyone commits and everyone then is obliged to agree on 'the same'. I must tell you, however, that beyond the good intentions, which are not enough, we need specific answers, and these specific answers we will expect to take them from you, because today we do not have that feeling. I would like to say to you that strengthening citizens with knowledge and skills must be the objective of all those responsible for education policies in each country and you know very well that the reports that exist - and I will refer to a recent World Bank entitled “Learning Poverty” - say that the growth, progress and prosperity of each country depends on improving the lives of not a few, but on many. I understand that you are invited to manage a chaotic 'today'. But all of us are responsible for planning for the future, for a child who is going to enter the educational system in 2020, and who will be coming out in 2035. The new generations, the disciples, our children come into the educational process with feelings of discomfort, vanity, insecurity. The teachers of all levels are crushed, within a management role that this day-to-day school life imposes on them. The nature and quality of education in our country will be determined and guided and what we can achieve as a society and what we can achieve as an economy. And to avoid mockery, the notion of public education itself has been undermined, as it coexists with a very high cost of misconduct, which leads to the bleeding of family income. So the big question is to restore the status of education and education as a whole and that is why a lot of work and brave reforms are needed to bring our educational system to the value that modern data require. This, however, needs deep sections, brave changes and all levels of education. No reform can be effective in the long term if only certain aspects of the education system are exhausted. Change in education to yield must be comprehensive, starting from the beginning, but which are the first steps in our education, and ending up in higher education. Here we are, and it is a matter of the government to prove that it means it, when it says that education is a top national priority. And you know very well that only national issues are dealt with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u74	The Minister, Mrs Kerameau, has the floor for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, my colleague. I shall start from the latter as to whether we are actually proving that education is a top priority for us. I will give you two indicative figures. Firstly, we increased the state budget for education by EUR 113 million, a practical proof of the importance that this government attaches to education. Secondly, the permanent appointments. See how much of the appointments made in the public sector are covered by the education area. It is the most revealing, I would say, proof of the importance our government attaches to education. I come to some of the issues you mentioned before. New curriculum. Of course, we will use the very important work that had been done by 2014. The Institute of Education Policy is already preparing new curricula from preschool to high school, on the basis of the very important work that had been done by 2014. Bank of Topics: We have announced for some time that it will start from next year for the First High School, and this is something that is being worked out in detail by the Institute of Education Policy. Investment in education: We cannot demand an upgrade of education unless the state first does not invest in the teacher. How does he invest? In practice. We have already announced specific training programmes, which have not been carried out for years and which have already been announced and made public. Other issues, which are also very important: dual moleculosis for teachers in difficult areas. It is respect for education, respect for local society, and respect for the new generation, which, wherever it is in the country, has the right to learning. Another example of teachers' services: we have announced that we want to reduce the length of tables from three years to two, so that teachers' pre-services can be measured more quickly. Why is this all happening? To invest more in teachers, something has not happened for years. With regard to the planning of the bills, I would like to give you some information about exactly what will follow. The following bills will be followed in the next few months: With regard to primary and secondary education, as we have announced, there will be provisions on standards and experimental schools. Yes, the Ministry's planning has been to operate since September twenty-four school models and thirty-eight experimental schools throughout the country, apparently distributed throughout the country. In addition, provisions on structures. Of course, we have criticised previous structures as bureaucratic, hydro-heads, far from the school unit. We change this framework with structures closer to the school unit, with the return of the school advisor lower, close to the school unit. We are introducing new themes into the school, the mandatory timetable, new themes that have to do, for example, with sexual education, with volunteering, with entrepreneurship, with road safety, to give young people a more global education. All this is already piloted from next year. In vocational education, we are preparing a new framework in which the social partners will have a very important role to play, so that we can bridge the important gap that exists today between education and real needs in the labour market. At the highest level we have provisions concerning the greater extroversion of our higher education institutions, facilitating English-speaking programmes, joint programmes, international programmes, double programmes, summer programmes. And all this because? To make use of the excellent human potential that our country has, the excellent foundations that our country has and to make our country a regional education centre that attracts students from all over the world, rather than kicking out students. The overall institutional framework for higher education will of course also follow. And I would like to end, Mr President, with the reference made by Mrs Kefalidou on Article 50 on colleges, because I have a chance to make this clear: This article concerned, for example, the possibility for a Greek philosopher to exercise his professional rights in France, Germany, Austria. What does EU law say? It says that exactly the same must apply to a graduate from a university in the European Union, to another Member State, who wants to exercise his professional rights in Greece. It is a regulation that your government, PASOK, incorporated with a directive and very well done on Anna Diamantopoulou Minister in 2010. It is a provision that you, Mrs Kefalidou, and your party voted just a year ago because he said that these graduates, after checking, must be able to participate in notices. It is a regulation which all governments have implemented, and PASOK then and New Democracy and, of course, SYRIZA. It is a regulation which provides for not equalisation, not equalisation, not automation, but a thorough examination of the curriculum of these foreign universities, to the extent that the independent authority is certified and, if you want, the curriculum of these universities. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] And then what does the department responsible do? It inspects all these applications, rejects several and imposes other compensation. What's he gonna say in compensatory terms? Additional courses, practical training. So what exactly are we talking about? We are talking about the Greek philosopher's right to exercise his professional rights in France, Germany, which you introduced into the Greek legal system - and you have well done - on Anna Diamantopoulou, which we are called upon to implement because it is a fundamental principle of European law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. And we continue with the eighth Question No 384/15-1-2020 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Urgent resolution of problems in the current appointment process". My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, several years later the AACC's notices were issued for the appointment of teachers in primary and secondary education, 1GI/2019 and 2GI/2019, with FEC45 and FEC46 respectively from 24-12-2019. For the first notice the deadline for the submission of electronic applications expires today and the second one expires on 24 February. As established in these cases, for the candidates holding the titles abroad, they must present to the IORP's AACC a certificate for the equivalence and equivalence of the title and for the equivalence of the rating scale to the grading scale of the national securities. By your invitation, the deadlines for submitting supporting documents for the first, from 13 January to 12 February 2020 and for the second, from 13 January to 2 March 2020 are provided for. However, a significant number of candidates without fault fails to present the IATP certificates under the procedure on grounds relating exclusively to the IATP. In fact, we are not just talking about the general problem of possible IATAP delays, for which you have answered questions in the past. This is a failure to issue the relevant certificates in the critical time due to a lack of administration of the IATC, after the previous administration ended in November and the new one, which you appointed just the day before yesterday, has not taken up its duties. In other words, we are talking here about a situation where the Ministry has a direct responsibility, and you know, Minister, that the tables that will emerge are, as they say, locking down for three years. Because, therefore, the issue needs to be addressed in order to ensure the right to equal participation and to judge the candidates involved in this category, because the immediate solution is both a political and a moral obligation of the Ministry of Education and because this is an absolute urgency, we are addressing the timely question to the Ministry. How does he intend to deal with this matter immediately? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u78	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much, Mr President, for the question. Indeed, I would agree with you that it was an omission of the state that had not been permanently appointed for so many years with the significant gaps we had in education. That is why our government has put education very high on its priorities, and for the first time there are permanent appointments to special education, and after ten years there are permanent appointments to general education. We are talking about strengthening the country's total educational staff by 15 000 teachers. It is a very important reinforcement. Now with regard to the notices, as you know, the authority responsible for the notices is the AACC. Indeed, there are delays in various bodies, delays, for example in relation to the IATP. I mentioned earlier in case more than three years, from 2016 on the SYRIZA government until 2019, no application has been processed and, after all, the person concerned was informed that its file does not exist and has to start from the beginning. Why am I saying this? I mean, first of all there's a special care. Because we have just prioritised and moved so quickly in the appointments, special care has been taken to prioritise those cases, which were to be submitted with justification for the notices. There was a special procedure for an acceleration request. There has been special communication and mine with the leadership of the IATAP, in order to prioritise these applications. You're not right about what you said about the administration. The process is clear, the law clearly predicts, the administration never stops. There's all the time in the administration. There is also the relevant opinion of the Legal Board of the State, and there is continuity of administration. In any case, we have proceeded, as you know, in the hearing of the new President. But most importantly, that's not it. Most importantly, while we are talking about chronic pathogens, over delays in issuing the documents, I have made a personal recommendation to the AACC, so that candidates can produce relevant documents, which have been delayed by the administration throughout the period of objections. It is a decision of the AACC, of that authority. The suggestion I have made is in this direction, in order precisely to measure and to be able to submit these documents at that stage. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the Elementary School of Vergina Palatika. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I heard you earlier with the passion you were talking about on education and I do not really doubt that this was all from the heart. I also fully agree with what you said earlier about the delays in years. You're absolutely right. We have all seen that. However, we believe it is a state's duty to find any immediate solution to the problems, that it is not possible for citizens to suffer adverse consequences on grounds solely of a malfunction and arrhythmia of the state and government mechanism. If nothing else, you will allow me to say that it is not acceptable to jeopardise the future and the legitimate professional rehabilitation of citizens, who are not responsible for all of these administrative failures and will allow me to say that I am using very mild expression and that is the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Administration for months in the IATAP. Here too, there is a question of the proper functioning of the Ministry. It's not just your fault for that void. That is why the Ministry of Education now has a certain responsibility to find this solution. We now know that after the noise that has been created, but also with the submission of this timely question, you have also been put to the Committee on Morphic Affairs on Friday 31 January, that is, just the day before yesterday, taking the initiative for a solution. In particular, you mentioned what you said earlier, that you recommended to the AACC that these documents be presented at a later stage and that the solution to the problem is now purely an issue of the AACC. Because we insist that, for the existence of the problem facing hundreds of candidate teachers, the Ministry of Education is directly and primarily responsible, but also the IATP supervised, we believe that there should be an explicit and clear commitment from you, namely that no candidate will lose the right to equal participation and to a crisis as a result of delay in issuing his certificate by the IATP. You know, because you are an educator, that these are people who have organized all of Greece, offering their services from place to place for many years, as substitutes or hostages, and now their ability to appoint is at stake. You will allow me to say, Minister, that I have discussed with people who are in danger of getting out of work and being substitutes for retirement in a short time, living with a suitcase in the hand, turning all over Greece and living literally two families, with an instructor's salary. They at last deserve the elementary respect of the state, and that means the absolute and sure assurance that they will not be deprived of the possibility of a crisis of errors and delays of those responsible, whether they be the Ministry itself or the public administration. And because the present government - and you will allow me to say - is proud of the fact that it solves all the problems of an urgent nature, so here it comes and has - and you personally have the opportunity - but also the obligation to prove it. There doesn't have to be any mediator solutions. Any difficulties that are hard to overcome when there really is to be political will. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] Just give me a second, Mr President. As in the case where we are talking about, but also others concerning the Ministry of Education, I will mention again - and I insist on this, because I have asked it again in this Chamber, Madam Minister - for example the undetermined teachers who have been successful in the AACC since 2008 or the thousands of others who have been afflicted with the famous 3 euro paradox. In fact, this whole world is being subjected to the anxiety about the equivalence of their qualifications, at the same time as a law has been passed that the degrees of all kinds of colleges you referred to earlier - but you did not say to all those who come to Greece with college degrees if they have the recognition of their country - can go beyond this process. Minister, because I really believe that you are in the mood, you have the way to overcome it, I am sure you will work in this direction, and that is why I would ask you to do so, so that we can finish with all those who are really suffering from this process. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u82	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President, very much, Madam President. Yes, I can assure you that not only me, but all the political leadership, all the services of the Ministry want us to improve the education services as quickly as possible. There's no doubt about it. It would, however, be totally utopian and naive to think that in six months' time we will resolve all the problems of the country like the one Mrs Kefalidou mentioned earlier, with the PISA indicators being very low in our country, such as what you are saying, with the IATAP, which is unfortunately involved in public opinion at the moment as a very long delayed agency. It's a fact. What do we do about it? What are we doing and in the face of permanent appointments, which we have accelerated to meet important needs of our education today? We've prioritised the applications. We've received requests for accelerating. The previous government - and I am well aware of it - had begun the e-doatap process, that is to say, to move to a large part, e-government, something in which the new chairman of the IODAP, who passed a hearing last week, has specific experience and has already tabled concrete proposals on how to really pass the IODAP in the era of e-government. We'd like to solve everything in six months? Of course we would like - and we are talking about chronic diseases, however - to the extent that we are concerned with, because what has to do with what has to do with what is accepted, what is not done, when and so on, is purely an issue of the AACC. The AAP runs the proclamation. I personally do everything in my power to enable the candidates to produce these documents which, if you like, relate to their candidacy throughout the whole of the objections. You said about the paintings for three years. We have announced for some time that our intention is to reduce the duration of the tables from three years to two, why? In order to measure the pre-service of teachers more quickly and not to have to wait three years in order for the tables to be renewed. And I will close with this: IATAP is a real challenge, because, as I said, we have many-year-old pathogens to deal with. We are already in the process of implementing new solutions and launching a new number of special rapporteurs, precisely in that direction. We are, however, opening up the dialogue and invite the parties to table specific proposals on how to improve this process further. We will launch concrete actions, but our doors are always open to all of Parliament's parties, to all Members of Parliament and to the educational community as a whole and to further ideas for even greater speeding up procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. We're continuing with the last question. The first question will be discussed with number 430/27-1-2020 in the first cycle of the Halkidiki Parliamentary Coalition Mr.Syria Malama to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The need for immediate action to repatriate Greek seafarers who are caught in Djibouti". My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately we are debating today, once again, with a representative of the government, the crucial issue of the abandonment of four seafarers off Djibouti, for over five months. About three weeks ago, in this Chamber, your colleague from the government, Ms. Vlassis, representing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, assured us that it was a matter of days before the Navy's attempts to disembark the seamen and, indeed, promised that Greek diplomatic mission would be on site so that they could strip these people from the ships that the shipowner Alexander Tsakos left in September. After all, Mr Minister, at Christmas when you succeeded in repatriating a fifth Greek seafarer on board the ships, you wrote in your account on social networking that efforts continued for the rest of the four. Since then, all he has changed has been that one of the seafarers is hospitalized and one more goes to hospital, as his health status has deteriorated rapidly. Minister, Greek shipping is based on love for shipping and seafarers serving it. Sadly, however, to date, our country has only been serving, in this particular matter, the interests of shipowner Alexander Tsakou, who, after giving up on the open two ships, after winning with extraterrestrial companies, today is unreasonable and the state is not seeking him to pay for the lives of the people he has forgotten on the open, in violation of the Navy Law, but also every humanity principle. The insurance company that was supposed to be activated for the repatriation of seafarers nor does it wish to pay in breach of its obligations. And so, these people have been here for four or five months long, trapped and abandoned. So the question is when these people will finally return and what action you have already taken to end this adventure an hour ago. I would also like to ask you if you have a picture of the financial uncertainties of this shipowner, of course, because the insurance company is at last not being activated to replace the crew of the ship. The families of people live in a nut and expect the government today, now, direct actions and actions on the subject that I mentioned to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Malama. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u87	Mrs Malama's question, Mr President, concerns an issue, the solution of which is the first priority for the political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, because our priority is to safeguard the safety of our seafarers in the lengths and backs of the Earth. Of course, the case, as my dear colleague rightly pointed out, starts in September 2019, when two Greek shipowners, Ptolemy and Aribas, were arrested following a decision by the Djibouti court, because precisely because the shipowner, the shipowner, had financial obligations vis-à-vis his creditors, which is why these ships were arrested. Unfortunately, however, the local port authority does not allow for the re-entering of the crew of the two ships on the grounds of port security, despite the fact that the financial insurer, P&I CLUB, has already been activated in order to achieve the re-engineering of the crew. Mr President, I would like to inform you that since the first moment the actions of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy have been constant and intense. As soon as we have been informed, we have informed the relevant agencies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with which we are working in cooperation and coordination, but also with the competent consular authorities, so that we can form the public framework of our actions. Our aim is to re-enact Greek seafarers and our main argument is the provisions of the International Rules of the 2006 ILO Maritime Labour Convention, ratified by Djibouti. According to him, each member has to facilitate the reenactment of seafarers, regardless of the financial situation of the shipowner, who, of course, either refuses or shows reluctance to replace seafarers. In this context, too, our honorary consul in Djibouti is making constant contact with the competent authorities, highlighting the obligations of the port authorities of Djibouti and is also pushing in turn for the repatriation of our seafarers. The P&I CLUB ensures the crew supply. The Greek Embassy of Addis Ababa, in addition to the private debates, visited Djibouti and met with the Director of bilateral relations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who, of course, refuses to assist with the repatriation of seafarers, except for health exceptions. That is why we managed on December 30, following coordinated actions, the release of one of our seafarers, while on January 15, the first engineer to hospitalize a military hospital was taken out of the ship "Ptolemy". He is currently staying in a hotel and of course the port authorities have retained his passport. I have also asked the permanent representative of Greece in Geneva to inform - and he has informed - the International Labour Office, presenting the problem and pointing out the violation by the port authorities of Djibouti. We also informed the French Embassy and also the ITF representative in Greece and the European Union delegation in Djibouti, as well as the International Labour Organisation database for the abandonment of seafarers. Finally, on 17 January, I sent a letter to my counterpart, the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, stressing the violation of international rules and international conventions, making it imperative to intervene so that the four Greek seafarers return. Of course, so far I have not received any response at all. As you can see, Mr President, our efforts are continuous and at many levels. Some of them you realize they're not announcing. From the very beginning we have been in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and of course we are prepared to take every initiative so that our seamen return as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u88	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u89	Minister, all this time the government has assured its good intentions, but the health of seafarers is getting worse. Food is with the dropper and we know it from the family's previous communication with seafarers. I do not understand, within these abandoned ships, the smuggling that exists all this time and the enormous danger to people's lives is not of paramount importance. These are the results of a government effort, which we know so far. And since these people's families are at despair, other answers must be given. Because everything that the previous Minister told us last time. They say the same thing to families when they talk to the ministries. I cannot understand why you insist on the same tactics and solutions. Why is the shipowner responsible for this whole situation, Alexander Chacos, at this entire time in the unavoidable condition and why have the premiums not been activated to replace the crew? You know, the road to hell is well-shaped with good intentions. But who will apologise for the worsening of the health of seafarers? Who will apologize for being unpaid for at least seven months? Who's going to give them back the life they've lost on behalf of that shipowner's property? Because, therefore, the case is very critical and potentially worsening the situation of people, it will be burdened with the state and those who manage the competent government positions. We would therefore like answers far more specific and not always the same. We need answers here and now. When exactly will these people return? What exactly are the obstacles? And above all, we call on you to disprove the rumours that these people want to have given up in their mercy until the ships are auctioned, so that the shipowner Chakos, not the insurance company, but that our Greek seafarers, with their lives, pay the ship-raising speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u90	The actions of the government and of the joint ministries are specific. Our main argument is the implementation of the 2006 ILO International Convention. But we don't stay with your hands crossed. We will continue with even more tension. We're in touch with both their families and their representatives. We will use beyond diplomatic means and any appropriate means or energy in order to secure our seafarers back home and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u91	The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 6/5/12-12-2019 by Mrs Fotinis (Phobis) and Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) will be debated. Georgiou Arvanitides, Ahmet Ilhan, Konstantinos (Nantias) Giannakopoulou, Christos Gokas, Georgiou Kamin, Charalambos Kastanides, Michael Katrin, Vasili Kegeroglou, Charulas (Haras), Kefalou, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Evangelios Likoli, Andreas Lovertou, George Mulkiotis, Burkhan Baran, Dimitrios Biagi, Apostle Pana, Georgios Papandreou, Andreas Poulas, Konstantinos Scandalidis and Georgiou Frangidis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “The primary sector is in a way - needs immediate intervention for his development.” The reason is the first questioner, MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement, Mr. Apostolos Panas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, traditionally in recent years our party has asked questions about the primary sector to the individual government. It is our firm position that the primary sector of our country is a lever for the development of economic and social life. After all, PASOK has laid the foundations for the emergence of the agricultural sector as a pillar of support for our economy. I mention the following features. We were the ones who, with our policies, breathed the Greek countryside by getting it out of isolation. We set up the OGA for the first time, giving decent insurance and pension to rural women and farmers. We introduced the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes, an innovative idea that was the basis for today's rural development funding programmes. We have exploited the common agricultural policy that has kept the countryside and the inhabitants standing in the crisis over the last ten years. We have supported exports and improved the overall contribution and presence of the country's agri-food sector in economic life. We have implemented policies to protect mountain and island regions, forest wealth, water, the environment, traditional settlements, the preservation of our cultural heritage at every corner of the country. In other words, we left our mark over the whole range of the country's primary sector. So, today, ladies and gentlemen, time for the agricultural sector and for the producer is as if it had stopped. After ten years of economic crisis, we are currently seeing the primary sector of the country's economy in a free fall. Since last year's debate on the agricultural question SYRIZA, until this year, after seven months of governance of the New Democracy has changed nothing at all. The Prime Minister, first visiting the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, after the formation of his Government, wanted to give a symbolism. Unfortunately, however, it was only in this symbolism. The rural world is in anguish for its daily expenses and for its future. International meetings and agreements are good, Minister. They may even have a long-term positive impact on the agricultural sector. Maybe not. No one knows that. We are not here, however, either, as much as you are ruling, in order to speculate and predict. We are here to talk about the present and the immediate future of the farmer, to speak with data and evidence of the problems he faces in his farms, in his farms, in the property he has hard built. So since you cannot speak clearly, frankly and with a self-criticism about the problems of farmers perpetuating, we will do so. And problems speak for themselves. So let us start from the huge chapter of ELGA compensation. Indemnities due to natural disasters, crop disease compensation, indemnity, drought and ice. A few questions have been put by our parliamentary group on this matter. We live in a rural country, after all, and each region has been hit at least once by one of these phenomena. And farmers in these regions should simply be compensated. Take my area, Halkidiki, where the disasters of recent months have been huge, first with the hails of July and then with the floods that have literally hit the prefecture. The land destroyed left producers with zero income. We have asked at least for the advance payment of the compensation to be paid. Promises on promises and commitments on commitments, effort. The result? None at all so far. So we reach the huge thorn called ELGA. When will the restructuring of the agency finally be completed? You say this is a process that is complex and will take time. We can hear it. And what's the solution? Involve private insurance? Is there any chance that insurance contributions will not increase with this marriage, as you hope you will? No, of course not. The result will be a higher premium for the farmer, a worsening of his financial position. It is therefore not a question of increasing the premium, but of strengthening it. But you, in order to do a dubious management of things, include the private in the game, effectively throwing the ball on the platform. So this is not the task assigned to you by the Greek people in its vote. And I continue with the restructuring of the ELGA. The second reason why it needs to be immediately completed is the need to adapt to the new data created by climate change. The primary sector is now forced to operate on a new basis. We need to forget what we knew. The nature has now become aggressive and unpredictable, and it is the state that must be on hand if not to prevent at least. It is not possible in 2020 for Greece to fall hail and farmers are struggling to get even the advance payment of the compensation they are entitled to. In these cases, moreover, it is that the state must be present with solutions. But the opposite happens. Your government is absent and the farmer has reached "and five" in terms of income and prospects not even "just five". And now we're going to the other big chapter called growth. The flag of your Government is the return of the country to orbit growth. And I ask you, Minister: how will the country re-enter development if there is no investment in the agricultural sector, if there is no investment using the country's wealth-producing resources, from production, from what the country already has, and what it is looking to find in foreigners? So where is the use of the resources of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme? As soon as the improvement plans were announced the day before yesterday. It should be noted that the improvement plans have been signed in 2016 to 2017. And what is now coming is still in the first stage of implementation since no objections have yet been raised, so we are talking about delays. Minister, your policy is undevelopmental in the primary sector and not development. If you do not strengthen the competitiveness of Greek products, how will the primary sector and the economy of the country generally develop? Let's go to the excellent Greek products, which are constantly downgrading: Olive oil this year has received an invoice. Oil producers are suffocating and leaving the industry, since they cannot meet their family obligations either. What is your design for reversing this climate? How will you show the value of Greek olive oil? You say that you cannot interfere with the free market and the prices that are being created. Then change the brand of Greek olive oil and follow another communication policy. Advertise it differently. Finally push the brand "extra virgin". Show the olive oil and possibly other important Greek products in national products. Why don't you do it? If you cannot intervene directly on the market, do it indirectly. Nor can I mention the great chapter on climate change. How will the primary sector adapt to climate change? When do you expect to unfold your strategy in this regard? But do you really have a strategy, or do you go without a plan? The primary sector needs solutions that will take him forward, which will help him not only to survive but to become a key factor in the development of the Greek economy. It is well known that the European Union has set up a new climate policy and policy reforms aimed at sustainable environmental development, the so-called 'Green Deal'. The European Union's climate policy also affects the payment of aid to the primary sector for the upgrading of farming practices, for the production of healthier products, by strengthening food safety. On these important issues of economic and social importance, the government unfortunately stands a spectator. We have also been asking for months now what the Ministry's planning for the negotiation of the new CAP is, what our country wants to achieve. The time frames are tightening up, especially since the summit on the financial framework 2021-2027 is on the table. So will the Community's resources be reduced for the Greek primary sector? For if such a reduction occurs, not only the agricultural sector will be damaged, but the budgetary hole will also arise. Finally, we have the capital of agricultural cooperatives. The new bill, I think, is coming to Parliament the next few days. We'll have a chance to discuss this in detail. But I just want to make one comment. Because of the multiplicity in the institutional framework and of the institutions representing the farmers themselves, the sector has been dramatically weakened. For the record to say that Spanish olive oil is so competitive at the moment. We therefore have to consider there to be a specific institutional framework represented by a body. Thank you very much, and I'll see you in our dentistry. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Pana. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Member of the Change Movement, has the floor now. Will you use your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President, I will also use my dentistry. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector again at the forefront. However, he was waiting for you today in'red', as we have experienced in recent years. In fact, I would say that the problems have been exacerbated, with expectations and hopes unfulfilled. Let me remind you that SYRIZA was in power in 2015 with the vote of the farmers, and I say this because I would say that the primary sector is a tool for every political opposition. Let me remind you of the hugs of Tsipras and the peasants, to remind you of the farm rally. All this, of course, before the 2015 elections. Of course, when SYRIZA came to power in January 15, these were forgotten. For four and a half years, no development initiative and, in particular, no development initiative for the primary sector! Instead, farmers saw: the abolition of excise duties on oil, the increase in VAT on agricultural supplies, HISPIA even in warehouses and in the stadiums, the absence of controls on Greekisations, tax charges from 22% to 45%, the excise duty on wine, the obligation of 100% of the tax on next year, constant delays in ELGA compensation. Conclusion One: With SYRIZA the primary sector in a darker and worse position! And I come to the Government of New Democracy today. You are, Minister, six months of government. None, but no change in agricultural policy has occurred, with the problems of farmers remaining and growing. The primary sector is one of the fundamental pillars of the Greek economy and even one fifth of our exports are agricultural products. Producers, farmers, livestock farmers feel abandoned. Already, there are major challenges and you are calling today, Minister, to reply. After all, until today, we haven't seen you get in position. Of course, climate change is a serious development and will directly affect production. The problems in the olive-growing and wine-growing sector are many, as is the case in the livestock sector, and here we need immediate placements and vertical solutions. Since my region, the Aetolokarnania prefecture in which I am elected, is a prefecture with a particularly high primary sector, I shall refer to a serious problem facing livestock farming. The contribution, Minister, of livestock farming to rural development is crucial. It is about 1/4 of the gross value of agricultural production, while providing work and income to over a hundred and fifty thousand families dedicated to tradition from generation to generation, who live mainly in mountainous areas, often unsavoury. These families are giving life to the country's rural and Greek villages and maintaining the social fabric of the country and even the social fabric of the country in disadvantaged areas with particular and increased problems. In recent years, then, Minister, livestock has been affected more than any other sector. The problems are complex and time-consuming. I would say that one of the fundamental problems is the lack of legal modern statistic facilities. Law 4056/2012 laid down a framework for authorisations of livestock units. The period laid down for the submission of applications for these livestock units was extended until 30-6-2019. But on him also a voice of oxen in the wilderness! The monster of the bureaucracy of the Greek state and the subsidization of the services in the region did not allow many of them to meet the requirements of the law. In fact, I would say that, with high administrative fines, they are at risk. Therefore, Minister, it is necessary to simplify the licensing procedure and to introduce a transitional period for farmers so that they can be authorised. I should also like to mention, as I mentioned earlier about climate change, that this is where we are dealing with the country's animal production, which is directly linked to climate change. Continuous changes in weather conditions have again brought to the surface diseases that had been forgotten, such as blue fever, blessing and others, a huge challenge for the Ministry that has to face them. Another major problem I would say is the commitment to the advance payment of aid from the organic farming programme and to the support of mountainous and disadvantaged areas, which farmers are waiting for, and indeed to support, their production. At the same time, with the suspension of the new forest maps, many pastures are characterized as forest areas, and at the same time create problems for farmers' access. Another problem, Minister, is the high cost of feedingstuffs, because this increases production costs and reduces income. In the past, there has been an effort by the Ministry to approve the values at which change took place, but we have not had any significant results. There is a great and crucial problem, of course, that is, the Greeks. It has not been possible for the state over the years to set up an effective mechanism to trace the movement of meat and its products. Cross-checks are limited and the result is that farmers are subject to unfair competition. Ladies and gentlemen, in livestock farming there are different areas, each having its own potential and prospects. For example, in ovine and caprine animals we have small family units, we have movable farmers, we have farmers with rare breeds, we have native tribes. All these farmers need concrete support from the state, which we have not seen until now. And that's what they expect of you. Finally, Minister, I would like to raise a few points. And here I demand your answer: First, an interprofessional feta organization: a meeting was held at the Ministry, but there are involved parties that were not invited. And we wonder why they weren't called. Is that true? If so, why are you going to deal with it? Because it is a question of getting interprofessional at last, but also on a solid basis, so that everyone can accept it, so that we can achieve the desired result and the feta can be considered absolutely shielded. Second, the milk. Farmers are in despair. Prices in milk have collapsed. The water has come to be more expensive than milk. The large dairy industries exert enormous pressure and the result is that at the end of the day producers and farmers lose their liquidity, giving low prices and collecting post-paid checks. So all they can do, Minister, is drown the debts. In fact, small producers in the difficult parts are at a dead end, as large dairy industries do not prefer them due, of course, to transport costs. He promised the Ministry and you, a few months ago, a fair price for milk. And I ask you: what are the actions taken by the Ministry to ensure milk? You spoke of compulsory agreements between farmers and traders for the sale of milk and the indication of the selling price. And here I ask for your answer. Is that a solution to the problem? Because these agreements often lay down one-sided conditions for farmers. Of course, the farmer is always bound and the processor is at foam. That's the reality, and that's the truth. We also have a similar situation, of course, in the price of meat which is constantly falling back. Producers are forced to sell at lower prices and I would even say at degrading prices. These prices are not enough, Minister, to cover production costs, and at the end they are with unpaid invoices in their hands. Minister, what I tried to do is to bring you the agony of the farmers of Atolokarnania, but I would say to the rest of Greece, especially of the Greek producers and farmers. The rural world needs support and hope. I would say here that the aim of all of us - and also our bet - is to highlight the primary sector and give solutions. Why, badly lying, the loan is over. It is therefore time to support the primary sector on the basis that, once the loan wealth is finished, we must produce domestic production, which is redistributed fairly to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. Now Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor. Will you use your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u97	Sure. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the ties of the Change Movement, the ties of PASOK, with farmers were and remain unresolved and strong. Since 1981, thanks to the rule of Papandreou, the farmer and the farmer have taken a new place in Greek society. Then all the PASOK governments defended and shielded the interests of the Greek farmer. They fought hard in and out of Greece and won them. The countryside is the backbone of the Greek countryside. That's how it was, and that's how it's going to stay. The period is perhaps the most critical period for the reorganisation of the national economy and of the Greek countryside. The primary sector has a twofold role to play in achieving this national self-sufficiency. Think of a country that finds its competitiveness in various sectors, such as energy, industrial products, real estate, technology and leisure services, but at the same time over EUR 7.5 billion will be exported, Minister, from the production shortage of goods. This will slowly and torture us in a Middle East country where production of agricultural products will be a national security policy and not a development policy that must and may be. The greatest challenge the Greek farm has to face is to design and monitor a national project based on the new thinking of the European Union. Everyone who comes from the province is concerned about the low performance of our country in terms of the current CAP 2014-2020, but also because of the negative developments in relation to the Rural Development Programme. We are concerned, because there is no plan to adapt the country to the Green Agreement (Green Deal), which is the European Union's new long-term policy on climate change, but which directly affects the primary sector, as well as the production process and food production and the payment of aid. We also concern ourselves in the Greek province, because in a few days' time the summit will be held and the financial framework 2021-2027 will be decided. And here we are asking, Minister, what is the government's strategy for the new CAP negotiations? How will it be ensured that the necessary Community resources for the Greek agri-food sector will not be reduced? I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of both the history of the agricultural movement of Giannis Kordatos and of the agricultural issue of Kostas Vergopoulou, which, over time, refers to the multitude of rural order. Minister, the factors on the agricultural issue are very specific: it is man, it is soil, it is water, it is energy, it is pesticides and fertilisers, that is, supplies. Land policy - and I refer to the ground - is there a government? How are we dealing with the fragmentation? How do you treat the land bank? Is there planning or not? Is the government aware that most of the agricultural parcels of people who have left the country are left with ballast, are left uncultivated? Do you know that foreigners are going and occupying parcels, sowing them without being subject to any limitations that the Greek farmer is subject to and are creating huge other problems? Do you know, Minister, what measures are we taking to design and programme soil erosion because of the apparent climate change? And I don't mean if you have any direct knowledge. As politics and government, I mean. This soil erosion that has to do with climate change has nothing to do with drought? It does. Doesn't it have to do with the fires? It does. Doesn't it have to do with the climate? It does. So, as a country, will Greece have a tropical climate, a sub-Saharan climate? Are we going to have other consequences? Is logging gonna die? He's going to die. Is the beekeeping going to die? He doesn't have any luck. Is the stock farming going to live? Oh, no. So what is the policy, Minister, on the ground, one of the factors I mentioned? Secondly, water. Have we decided how to protect it? Have we decided how we're gonna use it? How can this public good be a felony? There are requests at the moment, there are issues about the rights of use of water, and they remain in drawers and they are seated. The use of water, why doesn't it go any further? Why should there be such bureaucratic procedures that, in fact, prevent tax management? And there is a major issue for the rural economy. We ask you to see this bureaucratic approach. As another factor I mentioned energy. What do I mention as energy, Minister? I'm reporting the RES, the oil, and the electricity. What about PPC? What's the cost? Huge! It is daily the cost of production. What about oil? Nothing. We ask for a change movement on several occasions - the President has asked for it on several occasions - where we are meeting and standing, in which country and all steps of agricultural oil. Why didn't you say a word of the programming statements to date? You've practically said nothing. On the contrary, you have said about the secondary sector and other sectors and you have taken various measures. But not for the farmer! Let me say how the situation with renewable energy is moving. Do you know how business interests are with the RES? They rent fields 200 and 250 euros a acre, to sprinkle photovoltaics. If you don't see this and you don't get it, we'll rehearse in a little photovoltaic! Instead of reaping wheat, instead of the fertile land being able to produce, we'll have photovoltaics. As much as 1%, which is mentioned, covers. It doesn't cover. Where's 1% and in which area? Is there a programming? Where is he? Is it on the sloppy land, or are they on the fertile land? Please - I do not challenge you, please - go to Boeotia to see the fertile land how it is covered by photovoltaic parks. The photovoltaic parks underwent the fertile land. There will be no production. Freight, Minister. It's a big deal of supplies. It's nothing simple. And I am referring to fertilisers and I refer to seeds, because we import them all and imports are too expensive. Is there a policy of improving seeds? What policy do we follow to have seeds and to be self-sufficient? How will we improve the seeds? There's no politics. How will we ensure our future for the seeds? Because seeds as a whole are also a matter of national independence, because when you have no seeds, you have nothing and the future is promised. And when you have seeds, you define and who will sow and where it will sow. The same is true of fertilizers and medicines. Multinational companies, ‘BASF’, ‘BAYER’, ‘PIONEER’, ‘CYZENDA’, define policies both in seeds and fertilisers and everywhere. So, is there preparedness on our part? Minister, from gas, as you know very well, urea is produced. This is a primary issue for fertilizers. Are we prepared, after the gas has passed from the country, to have the corresponding production, as Israel does, as other countries do, from which we are necessarily importing fertilisers? Now should I say about the man? The farmer is the poor relative - we all know it - up to now. Today? It's flying. The situation is the worst there could be. Huge amounts to buy raw materials, supplies, land fragmentation, inability to trade, ageing population. All this creates difficult situations in relation to the 'human' factor. Minister, the agricultural sector is poor. You have a great responsibility and you need to take initiatives. I'm going to talk about two more issues about Boeotia. I am referring to a major issue. The first is the innovation zone in the "Region Food Valley", which corresponds to the Netherlands and the Dutch system, so that there can be strong production with a brand name of agricultural products, so that we can have food for Greek and in particular. The second is technological rural business parks. There are specifically the thebes - Livadias - Amphiclia, which will contribute to the extroversion of new products, innovative products, which can bring significant benefits. The third is the regional market for agricultural products in Central Greece, with a standardisation and marketing unit for agricultural products. In the 2018 regional spatial planning, Livadea is referred to as the headquarters of this regional market. A forgotten case from PASOK. PASOK always put it a matter, New Democracy always sent it next door. The regional market is a major issue. I end up in Kopaida. Mr. Mitsotakis, you know, Kopaida abolished it twice in 2014. And we have reached the point of two hundred and thirty thousand acres being - except for fields which a body once had - a mere service in the region. There is no one but no rational use of this story. We are therefore proposing to set up a new agency, the Copidis Development Agency, with a study and construction of modern networks. The networks, Mr. Minister, are from the age of the English. We also propose the design and development of new products and the design and exploitation of the opportunities offered by European programmes. Minister, the producers in Boeotia the day before yesterday, since the damage in July 2019, aid amounted to approximately 60% to 65%. They did. However, we have asked the Treasury, and we asked the Treasury for a question, the Treasury of Economics, these people who suffered total destruction, 100% of products, to suspend their obligations. In what sense? If they also owe tax, they also owe the insurance funds, at least let their obligation be suspended for a period of time. Do you know what the AIA responded? "I didn't get a message and a request from the Ministry of Finance." Why, Minister, is it the Ministry of Finance? Why has he not raised a matter for these people to be helped and involved in their problems, given their complete destruction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and five educational attendants from the 6th grade of Corfu. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr. Fofi Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, for the Change Movement, the primary sector is the country's main pillar of development. After all, as our Members have already said, the PASOK governments have left an indelible footprint in this area, recognised by everyone in the past few years. Now, however, the primary sector is changing. We have to change the production model. We need a new strategy so that we can get to an agriculture that is sustainable, environmentally friendly. I would say, in fact, that in the coming years the objective must be what we say 'from the farm to the plate'. At the same time, however, we need to deal directly with all the problems that have accumulated in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, the deadlocks caused by the SYRIZA Government's policy and the primary sector are well known. After all, the farmers have lived up to them, they have known them well, they have been condemned for this. I will not go any further, but I would just like to mention the extermination tax, the linking up of the high contributions to agricultural income, the high cost of production, and especially the cost of energy, and, of course, the great delays in the ELGA compensation, the complete failure to control the market. In short, five years lost. Our interest, however, turns to the present and the future. Seven months after the New Democracy Government, Mr Mitsotakis' government, nothing has changed. The New Democracy continues on the same deadlock as SYRIZA, which is devastating for farmers. The Government has not taken any effective measures to strengthen bank liquidity before all, in order to provide the necessary funding, as well as the working capital for productive activity in the primary sector. Secondly, no measures have been taken to reduce production costs and especially energy costs. We ask once again, Minister: will you finally implement the agricultural oil card, which has been introduced so many times? [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Thirdly, the Government has not taken a legislative initiative to change the ELGA insurance regulation so that it incorporates the new risks for compensation arising from climate change. The problem is too big. Fourthly, the implementation of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, like of course the NRP, has not accelerated, so that valuable Community resources are not exploited at the moment and are at risk of being lost. Fifthly, you have not taken any special measures for national products such as olive oil, cotton and dairy products. In particular, I will focus on the great loss of income from the oil producers. You are not saying anything about the failure of the tacosy and how it will change even about low market prices. Oil producers are currently facing a tragic situation. Reduction of production, deterioration of quality due to extreme weather phenomena, but also degrading prices due to un duty-free imports from third countries signed by the SYRIZA Ministers in the previous period. Harmonised practices in the trading and traffic cycle are stepping up the problem and you know it. The question is: what are you doing? Minister, you can't just throw the ball at the platform in these matters. Of course, here, where I think about it better, the word 'ball' should not mention it to this government. It's a hot word, it's a hot potato! So give me, Minister, substantial compensation for the replacement of income and for the support of olive producers through the relevant adaptation of the ELGA regulation. You can do it. Ensure additional European resources through the activation of the de minimis regulation. Of course, you can, for at least two years, exempt oil producers from the corporation levy. We are waiting, today, for concrete answers with actions in the near future, not vague promises. The insurance bill already in consultation does not deal with the problems. It shall be used in meaningless fragmentation or adaptations to the decisions of the Council of State. The Katrugalu law remains. It's good. Not repealed by the New Democracy. And, of course, there is absolutely no provision for the ESS and for the normal 15th pension to ensure dignity in the life of the pensioner. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Gentlemen of the government, I come to another hot matter. In a few days' time there will be the summit and the financial framework 2021-2027 will be decided. I ask you: what is your strategy for the negotiations of the new CFP 2021-2027? How will you ensure, Minister, that the necessary Community resources for the Greek agri-food sector will not be reduced? What are the measures for greening agriculture that you have worked on for the country so that it can respond and adapt to the least possible cost for the primary sector to climate change? The seven months that have passed are a long time. It is a long way from the challenges that exist and a great deal has to be done, since in a few days' time, very critical decisions will be taken that will determine the future in this area for the next seven years. It's a national matter. I fear, however, that Mr Mitsotakis will also come unprepared and without any prior consultation with the other political forces of the country. He has shown that he is not seeking understanding. Considers - apparently - that it's a sign of power to move everywhere by itself, take it all on him. However, the question is the result of all these choices. And the result is that it makes it "bad." That's the reality. A rapid change of course is required, otherwise developments will be negative for the Greek farmer. The producer groups, cooperatives, farmers must be substantially strengthened so that they can meet their challenges and adapt to the needs of climate change and digital transformation. Otherwise, Mr Minister, they will give up their efforts and our production will go to the big estates and the foreign hands. We're ringing the alarm bell in time. Ladies and gentlemen, by acknowledging all this, we are working on the Change Movement, together with the actors in the primary sector, the moves to be made tomorrow. With ELLADE, we are aiming at a new national production model based on place and on people. Our programme takes into account the challenges that come in the next thirty years by 2050, such as the food security of the population - given the increase in world demand for food by 70% by 2050 - and the consequences of climate change - we will repeat this again - as in the fourth industrial revolution by using new production technologies and 'precision farming', the need, of course, to reduce disparities and to reduce incomes fairly for farmers, farmers, the fishermen, the fishermen and the active farmer. The passage from agricultural production to quantity in a production of quality foods and products with respect to the consumer and the environment. The proposals of the Change Movement for the primary sector are as follows: For example, I mention, above all, the strengthening of competitiveness and the extroversion of our 'national products', such as dairy, horticultural, wine, oil, cotton, livestock products and fish. We are linking quality production to manufacturing and exports, ensuring greater value in products. Secondly, incentives to employ young people in agricultural production, by reducing farmers' taxes to 13% for incomes of more than EUR 10,000. With the introduction of irresponsible and duty-free subsidies. By disconnecting insurance contributions from income. With public land concessions to be exploited by new producers and producer collectives. Thirdly, measures to reduce production costs, reduce taxation, and five additional VAT returns for farmers organised in producer groups and cooperatives. We support them to intervene both in the supply of supplies and in the marketing of products. Establish a farm oil card. Strengthen the penetration of RES in agriculture while utilizing the biomass residues for energy production. Encourage energy communities in the primary sector to produce energy and reduce irrigation costs. Of course, this also requires strong financial incentives and guarantees. Fourthly, the reform of the ELGA to address the major disaster issue. Fifthly, infrastructure projects using each euro which can be made available by Community funds for the energy self-sufficiency of agricultural holdings. Association and implementation of innovations in the field supported by farmers' education and appropriate advisory services. Sixthly, the activation of the control mechanisms for illegal Greekizations and the practices of harmonized prices in the field and prices in the shelf. Seventh, decisive participation of the agri-foodstuffs sector in greening production and the economy by promoting organic crops. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the Change Movement is and will be at the forefront of the battle alongside the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer with concrete measures and not vague words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Liikanouli is now speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u101	Mr Minister, despite your Government's insistence to respond to the burning problems of Greek society by the inclination of the essential "normality", which you say all the time and say so and loudly - regularity, regularity, regularity - in a alteration, of course - you prefer this - with the retreat of the state that, as you say, has a great deal of power in the report of the speech, but, otherwise, the silence of the radio. In the seven, at least months in which you govern this country, we do not hear the voice of the difference in creation and a fresh breeze, even though we did not feel that it would come to the political life of the country in terms of development issues, particularly rural development, which is your responsibility. Of course, you have a lot to fight with, as the 14% figure we count as an increase in unemployment rate since December 2018 in December 2019 is not funny things. So these are serious things to discuss. And if we say that politics is a holistic approach to everyday life, then you too have your part. I come from an exceptionally rural county, the Larisa Prefecture, in which a few days ago, Minister, we had the pleasure of hosting you and saying that it was the engine of Greek agricultural production. It's a county you know he's been hit too much. It, however, endured in relation to other large urban centres, precisely because it has dynamic people, dynamic productions and is a strong place, despite the stumbling blocks caused by the indifference of many governments, especially the last one which has reached a great deal of trouble. Minister, your portfolio is one of the strongest in a government. I don't know if you wanted it or you didn't want it, but in any case, this portfolio now seems to keep in its fist very great strength for Greece and it's a glorious field for modern politicians. So I am sure it is a challenge for you too. We must agree, if that is the case, that the new Memorandum of Understanding will be created with a basic pillar in the agricultural sector or there will be no one at all. So we will return from where we were some time ago, namely guardianship, memorials, chaos, unemployment or going forward. We have the experience, so we invite you to listen. The Change Movement gave great battles to the agricultural sector. The PASOK periodically was the movement that reformed Greece, which represented the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer, making them out of the margin in which the conservative party had placed them. So we see today that, unfortunately, the policies that are being pursued are increasingly abrogating the conquests of the past, degrading the agricultural sector and favouring agricultural income. We'll have to see the thing differently. We must speak in another language and, above all, we must come to an agreement. You have recently brought your own plan - we are also waiting for your final proposal - on agricultural cooperatives. We attach great importance to this issue. The Change Movement has talked about it. He's institutionalized. You say that now you intend to change SYRIZA's current law, v. This is a problem that you consider to be problematic in many respects. That's the tree. But it's not the forest. It will not matter, whatever change you make, if this does not involve a substance and a value of time and stability. So we urgently need an institutional framework law for cooperatives, with smart structure, with entrepreneurial flexibility agreed in open consultation with all the political forces, with all the bodies and farmers and with guarantees and insurance barriers. We want a law in general, simple, easy, practicable that does not change every two years. No one will trust and support, Minister, the new cooperative project without a guarantee of stability and prospects. I'm stressing it. Bad lies, if we want here to talk to you like they really are. In our country we have a bad past from the cooperative movement, which despite its deep roots, despite the brilliant results it has had on many levels, despite female cooperative entrepreneurship, has been discredited in many cases by following the course of the political parties and is often identified with them. So the conversion of cooperatives - apart from these brilliant exceptions - into party feuds, the phenomena of manoeuvre and smuggling of resources, as well as widespread corruption, have wiped out collaboration and seriously injured the social fabric of rural space. But the question remains one. It is the office that the political system has a duty to show, that is, 'power in union'. We have history, culture, education. We can, in fact, develop new and effective partnerships and partnerships on a completely new basis. Another important assumption is that no producer can proceed alone. No matter how quality it produces, it is for the production of a small unit that does not have sufficient knowledge, time or money to do what is needed. If it is also alienated from its product in the production chain, that is, if it is not linked to certification, standardisation, processing, promotion and marketing, we will unfortunately have done a hole in the water again. The clavicle counts vice versa. Things are counted and, of course, time does not allow us to do experiments. The borders on the planet and the markets have fallen, the fourth industrial revolution is here and the contradictions reap. Now we can't live with the memories of the past, we don't need liquefieds, so that as far as the cooperative movement is concerned, we can institutionalise funding and control by the private capital through the new legislation without any insurance. Watch what we're telling you! We must not favour opacity in the decisions of members of the boards, we must not create extra bureaucratic obstacles to the creation and functioning of new cooperatives, and we must not, of course, once again present an integrated plan for their development. We shouldn't cross under the bar in simple words. These, you know, Minister, are not theories. We must dare. Are we you and us, or are we all together? There are ideas that are very important, mature now, which must be implemented. The problems are growing, the political system must be lifted to the level of circumstances and must train our people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say this: Before going to the great ideas and visions, Mr Minister, all serious obstacles must be removed and your Government must be subjected to real interest in the problems that are already facing us. How, for example, can there be synergies, new cooperatives, plans and development and extroversion in Larissa, when we are still dealing with the excessive cost of water, the drilling regime, the unresolved property regime in the chestnuts, the unjust weather compensation system for almond producers, to whom you only give de minimis, vineyard growers, fruits, the dismantling of cotton and the two-day bulk producers and so many others? I told Larissa that you with your vision might show the moon and others looking at the finger. Of course. When you look in your face, trying to solve the issue of survival, that kind of visions about the new collaborative shapes you can't have. However, history shows that there are the brilliant and excellent examples of collaborative schemes that make Greece proud inside and abroad. Let's not go one more chance loser. The law you are bringing and which you are consulting at the moment is inferior to the circumstances. We want to help make him excellent. Here you are and we're waiting for you. But not in this way, but in the way that we want to consult, openly and in no way can this law be a pit for private interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u102	Now Mrs. Hara Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, although it is the primary sector that can, in fact, support the economic development of the country, it is the country that can play a crucial role in tackling unemployment and in reversing climate change, yet its neglect is stable. It remains abandoned, paying a heavy burden on the indifference of policy that will improve the everyday life of the farmer and change the agricultural sector, preparing the country for the change in production model that comes, no matter how many people want to see it in the coming years. Historically, the radical reform of the agricultural sector, such as the establishment of the OGA, the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes, which led to the Rural Development Programmes - is their development - the development of the common agricultural policy, support for exports bears the stamp of our own area. We have succeeded in highlighting the primary sector as a pillar of the country's development and establishing the Greek farmer as a stable participant in the country's production potential. Unfortunately, however, the policies that are being pursued are increasingly shrinking the conquests of years, degrading the agricultural sector, reducing agricultural income, and eventually extinguishing the world more and more to its abandonment. The current government, having inherited SYRIZA's omissions and failures, has failed, at least so far, to bring about substantial reforms. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, by representing one of the poorest prefectures in the European Union that insists on trying, insisting on investing and wanting to be kept alive and productive, I would briefly like to refer to all the reasons why they are blocking a sector that may be a protagonist in the reconstruction of the country. Firstly, the suffocating and failed mixture of taxation and insurance contributions has not changed. Of the 100% of the gross income of a farm in Drama, 75% results in expenditure, taxes and VAT. Questions have been tabled since 2019. But nothing changes. Second, ELGA grows with subordinated services. In my region, the region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace, only eight officials are called upon to control and handle all agricultural and livestock units, so that there are delays, mistakes, injustices against the beneficiaries. Thirdly, there is no care from the state to be taken by banks to strengthen liquidity, and therefore the necessary funding and working capital for productive activity, so fatality is for everyone to claim subsidies. In Drama, as you will know better than I do, livestock is a basic activity. It is a constant request from farmers in mountain areas - and I mention characteristics of Neurokopi, known in Greece - that subsidies should be introduced for the purchase of feed, due to very low temperatures - less than 25 degrees - which are prevailing, the needs are increased. Please note that such subsidies already apply to other regions, such as the islands. In our region again we are not included in these categories, we are one of the areas where we do not have the luck of paying particular attention to the state. In practice this means two hundred fifty animal holdings, of which two hundred organic farming, equivalent to fifteen thousand livestock, are each day faced with economic suffocation. Questions? I am not discussing this once again. Fourthly, measures to reduce production costs and, above all, energy costs have not been taken. The response of both the previous and the current government to this issue is unexistent. Race and oil stay on heights. However, by increasing the cost of production, product prices are rising. So, what price competitiveness over our neighbours should we talk about? Our President said so. We've submitted a proposal for a farm oil card for a long time. Apparently, it's "snoring" in your Ministry's drawers. So what does it take to mobilize yourself? Add to the increased unemployment rates and the rural world who are struggling to get through on their own? They're young people, they feel abandoned by the state, they're trying to stay in their place, work, invest in their land, instead of selling, as I see, to the next Chinese investors. Fifthly, no initiatives have been taken on national products - cotton, dairy, sunflower, olive oil - and the huge loss resulting from them all in their income. And I say this because the state states, indirectly but clearly, complete inability to ensure a minimum price stability that would allow the farmer and the farmer to plan their production by weighing the costs with the expected profit. Sixth, in a region such as East Macedonia - Thrace, which is the only sector that has a high investment interest, and thus contributes significantly to reducing the region's high unemployment, the Ministry of Rural Development had to listen and respond. Despite the promises to reallocate additional appropriations from the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, nothing has changed and let this programme aim to improve the competitiveness of sustainable Greek agricultural holdings and strengthen restructuring, modernisation and adaptation to market needs and improve their environmental profile and let it reduce the impact on climate change. The ministry is deaf. Seventh, bureaucracy, as always, holds well or else, how the state can make the difficult lives of farmers even more difficult. I will tell you a characteristic example: Compensation for farmers from loss of livestock due to encephalopathy in 2018. Two years have passed and these allowances seem to have been lost somewhere on the street of Athens - Dramas. I conclude with the point raised by the TWGs, the land improvements agencies and tormenting the rural world. When even the municipalities are able to join PPC in a programme of a hundred and twenty instalments of repayment, I do not understand why TWGs remain in the thirty-six instalments. This has led to a dead end to the rural world, which is unable to repay its debts. The problem is even greater, as in two to three months farmers will be invited to join the integrated management and control system, they will not be able to obtain the required certification from the TWG and will therefore not be able to submit applications for the subsidies in question. Ladies and gentlemen, all major research into the country's productive reconstruction, whether it is McKinsey's or IOBE's or the JOB's, have the primary sector in a central role. However, for seven months, the government has remained indifferent and indifferent. Where are infrastructure projects for the energy self-efficiency of agricultural holdings? Where is the institutional protection of productive land? Where are the tax incentives and the land banks to exploit it from producers? Where are the control mechanisms to combat practices that break our producers? You know what, gentlemen of the government? The fine words and announcements never gave up any Greek family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two are the very big points to which one can come up today. The first point is that the country's agricultural world is exposed to the trade war between Europe and the United States of America, as well as the import of duty-free products that have flooded the European market and come from third countries such as Turkey and North Africa, which is obviously causing conditions of perpetual competition, a price reduction and a compression of agricultural income, with a characteristic example of what is being done this year, Minister, with the price of olive oil, and for which, unfortunately, you are giving up your hands. The second finding is that farmers in Greece have no support for their attempt to survive in these circumstances, when the government claims the total opposite of what he said as opposition. First case: you are asked by farmers and farmers to deal with the issue of illegal Greekism and by the government by mouth of the State Secretary in this Chamber, in reply to our question about olive oil, he claims that he knows nothing about illegal Greekism, even asking farmers and political parties to make complaints if they know anything about it. But what did Mr Mitsotakis say last May from Larissa, Minister? He said, "We will break the circuit boards of illegal Greek agricultural products starting with milk. We know who is doing it." That's what Mr. Mitsotakis said. So as Head of the Opposition, he was able to know, and now that he's become Prime Minister he doesn't know? Minister, have the controls been carried out for businesses which have not submitted a milk balance, or will we see again an announcement from the ELGO DIMITA about a lack of controls for a year and a half, as was done in July 2018? Will fines be imposed or suspended? Has the Ministry's databases been connected with Taxisnet to cross-check the declared data and create a system for recording the relapses? Will you immediately incorporate Directive 633 of the European Parliament on unfair practices in the food supply chain, as the Competition Committee urges you to send a clear message? I am presenting in the Minutes the answer from the Committee on Competition to a relevant question. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Second point: they ask you to move on to a change in the ELGA regulation in order to compensate for disasters caused by climate change and not covered by the existing outdated regulation. What does the President of the ELGA answer in an interview with him? It responds that the change in the regulation entails an increase in the costs of compensation. And the question is, where will the resources be found? So, damage to the economy as Mr. Georgiadis would say, Minister, and in that case. And it may be that the borrowers feel more unprotected than the Minister of Development's previous cress, but I would like to believe that farmers and farmers will feel more protected if you proceed to a brave and serious remodeling of the ELGA regulation. So what did Mr Mitsotakis say in election on this matter too? 'The ELGA regulation, I think,' says: 'that is, since the 1950s, no longer meets the new challenges, climate change, natural disasters. I know what it means," the Prime Minister said "to come a bronze, a hail, to destroy your production and ELGA to whistle indifferently" as the Prime Minister is a permanent resident of Elias Prefecture. But what did it only mean, Minister, between these statements? Only the elections. And since we are talking about compensation, in Makritia and in Kalivaki, in my constituency, they are still waiting for compensation from the financial aid programme 2013. I asked you a question 50 days ago and I have not received any reply. Thirdly, we call for measures to reduce production costs, starting with energy costs. Again, Mr Mitsotakis said in an election that Greek farmers and farmers cannot now pay so expensively for agricultural oil in relation to other European countries. In this respect, however, as a government, he has done absolutely nothing. Our President has said so, and colleagues have said so. We have tabled a proposal and it concerns the introduction of a farm oil card. We have, of course, heard other pre-election announcements about tax reductions, support for cooperative schemes and, of course, support for farmers' liquidity. And in my recent question, you said that since January 2020 - we have February already - Greek producers and farmers would have access to the Agricultural Development Guarantee Fund for loans of up to EUR 10 000 to 5 000 000. Really, today, what do you have to tell us about this? Do they have access? Did this program start? What they see, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately today, farmers and farmers, is that there is no real will on the government's agenda to change today's dramatic data. On the contrary, there is a great deal of concern in view of the reduction in European funds after Brexit and even more concern about the ability of Mr Mitsotakis to negotiate the new CFP 2021-2027, since, unfortunately, we find that on all fronts, starting with foreign policy, this government has an impossibility to win but has a willingness to grant. We believe in the crucial role of the primary sector in getting the country out of the crisis, and we therefore ask you for immediate solutions through a productive reconstruction plan and concrete proposals, which, unfortunately, you do not have. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rural world of our country, both in Argolida and in the rest of Greece, lives in a state of economic suffocation. The problems faced by Greek farmers are too much. There is no doubt that this situation is due to chronic structural problems and diseases. But it is also a legacy left by the SYRIZA government with the lack of agricultural policy and many poor decisions. The New Democracy has kept - and keeps - fish silence. However, since the situation is getting worse every day, you must respond clearly with measures and policies on a number of major and critical issues. Minister, it is very worrying and worrying for the oil producers - both our country and Argolida in particular - that the price of oil is set at historically low levels. At the same time, reports refer to cooperation between Spanish and Greek companies, in which the Spanish are navigating their own olive oil, in order to export duty-free to America, which works at the expense of Greek producers. From the high-quality olive oil produced in our country, unfortunately, only 30% of total production reaches the standardisation stage. The remaining 70% are sold in bulk, mainly in Italian industries, to be used in contaminants of different types of olive oil and sold as Italian. We're practically unable to sell the oil ourselves. We therefore consider it necessary to draw up a long-term national strategy for olive oil, as well as immediately you should take measures to restructure the olive oil market and strengthen producer groups and cooperatives in order to move forward with investment and increase the added value of the product. Another huge issue is the confrontation of the floor. I hope this year that the funds approved for the tacosy are sufficient to meet the needs of production and, in addition, the procedures for the award of the project to be completed immediately, to ensure that the sprays are started in time before June, so that prevention and treatment can be effective. That's the problem. Another major issue for the rural economy is the cultivation of citrus fruit. This year production was reduced by 30%. This led to better prices, and especially for mandarins, prices were good. Orange exports are continuing at the moment and are at a good pace. One problem, however, which exists and concerns the citrus growers in our country - and in Argolida specifically - is the tristesa disease. This is a disease that has come from Spain and has threatened and destroyed the production of citrus fruit for the past twenty years. Since citrus fruit is a crop that contributes a great deal to the local society and, more generally, to our country, it is understood that a comprehensive plan is needed immediately to deal with tristearism and a crop restructuring programme. It is necessary to revise the joint ministerial decision on Trieste, as well as to collect data from other countries on how to act. What subjects can be cultivated and unaffected? What new varieties can we cultivate in order to grow the citrus harvesting season? It is also known that climate change and acute weather phenomena have a negative impact on the environment and have a serious impact on agricultural production and on agricultural income. That is why in a country such as our own, with the well-known structural problems in the agricultural sector, it is a matter of priority that a modern and effective system of agricultural production insurance, plant capital protection and the revision of the ELGA regulation. Since 2014, there have been proposals for improvements to the law and regulations of ELGA, but which the SYRIZA Government has never exploited. We hope that you will see these matters seriously and go ahead with modernising the system of insurance and agricultural production. It is also important to strengthen the rural economy addresses of regional units and to identify and combat new diseases resulting from climate change and to better inform and raise awareness among farmers on rural development issues. Finally, I would like to refer to an important project concerning my Law, the Anavalus. This work must be completed in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u108	You're gonna sign it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u109	We'll put it on. I expect to see it in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u110	They're in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u111	It has been a constant demand for both residents and local government for decades. This must be solved either to Ermionidas or to the other areas of the New Heraion, Monastery, Fichatis, Borsa and Koutsopdi. Our farmers are tired of great words and wishfulness. Give us a solution at last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Poulla. Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u113	I would particularly like to thank my fellow Members for this question and for their criticism. I should also like to thank the President of the Change Movement for her presence. It shows the importance of the Change Movement in this area. Now I think we can get into the conversation. We can identify a number of issues that really are. What I want to contradict is a claim that has two variations, 'nothing has changed and nothing has changed and there is no policy', because farmers are watching and know what has happened in this semester. Now I want to ask you a few rhetorical questions to think. I think you have no reason to make this claim, because, firstly, it is very easy and, secondly, it cancels what could indeed be a creative position for our debate. Nothing has happened and nothing has changed. In six months, taxes haven't changed? Taxes haven't been reduced? Has the tax on agricultural income not been reduced? Hasn't ENVIRONMENT been reduced? Has the tax on producer groups not been reduced? So why didn't he change the tax? Why are you saying that farmers remain locked up at the high tax rates? How do they remain when they have seen the reductions and when we have announced further reductions? We have announced for this year, and the reduction in further HNVO and the reduction in the exceptional contribution. Why do you say that? Two. Hasn't it changed anything to the level of insurance contributions? Didn't the bill that does exactly what you're saying show up? It disconnects insurance contributions from income and from time to time. This bill has been raised in consultation. How suddenly nothing happened and still connected? Hasn't anything happened in this first seven months for the production organisation? At SYRIZA it took four and a half years to make a ministerial decision on inter-professional matters. He took her ten days before the elections. We have legislation - I have already legislated - a new institutional framework for inter-professionals. I made the authorized ministerial decision and then many years later an agreement was made on the interprofessional feta. Nothing's happened and nothing's changed? SYRIZA presented his view on agricultural cooperatives in a law of 2016, one and a half years after his election. We've finished the consultation and he'll be here next week. There's a special issue we're discussing, and I have to finish with the Treasury. We'll bring our law in six months. Didn't it change anything? You say: 'You have done nothing about the financial instruments'. Haven't we done anything for the financial instruments? Nothing has been done to support farmers' financial support? Then what are these 80 million committed by the Rural Development Programme, which we have completed the agreements, have been signed, the funds have been transferred to the banks, the bank declaration has been signed and the banks have been answered? Is that anything when farmers will have a ready-to-eat financial instrument in their hands? They have already declared participation in this scheme, which has exceeded all expectations. I was saying there's gonna be a couple of systemics coming in, and there's a couple of cooperatives coming in. The four systemic, the Attica Bank and four cooperatives have been put in place to provide cheap loans to farmers with the guarantee of the money of the Rural Development Programme, cheap, long-term maturation and reduced guarantees. Nothing's changed? Nothing's changed, you're telling me, the improvement plans? Spent a year and a half, desperate producers, desperate dealers! Has it not changed anything, when we unleashed them in the seven-month period, did we make a legal solution in the seven-month period, did we complete the evaluations in most regions in semester and in AGROTICA on the basis of improvement plans? Didn't it change anything? I'm so sorry. The energy cost? At energy cost, didn't we do anything? Didn't we bring the electricity provision for Net Metering, which we went to 25% to 75%, so that the depreciation effectively of the investment made by producers, from where it took fifteen years, ends up going down to two years? And we didn't change anything in that? We are actually fixing the cost of electricity at the moment. Didn't it change anything? I hear about the Rural Development Programme. You have to find areas to make criticisms that are "false", because these leave you spectacularly exposed to your criticism. Programme for Rural Development. Activate it, 98%, project integration, 88%, legal commitments, 78%, Community resource absorption, 46.68%, the rest of the NRP at 30%. Absorption above the European average. We didn't do anything? I understand that opposition must make opposition. I have great respect for this need, but it has to find the right place. I hear criticism, for example, of the price of olive oil. First question and simple. If the government is to blame for the price of olive oil, then you must obviously give her the credit for the price of mandarin, orange, kiwi and other high-price products. It is not to blame for the oil that is going badly, but for the rest that is going well not to blame. Or both or none and the right answer is none.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u114	What are we doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u115	What are we doing? That's right. Let's go to what we're doing for the oil. The last Member to speak, said this: 'We have had reduced production, we have increased prices'. In fact, olive oil has happened exactly the opposite. We have increased production in Spain, we have increased production in Tunisia, we have duties in Spain, and we actually have a channelling of Spanish olive oil at killed prices. That's the reality. This actually creates the very low price of olive oil. I say this with an absolute understanding of the problem faced by our producers. How's Spain? I had a meeting with my Spanish counterpart. This 'do nothing' is something that has to leave the political speech and say what it is that we do and what more we can do, because the truth is that we do a lot and the producers know it. Can I tell you something? What happened this year and we didn't have any mobilizations? We have had very few mobilisations, which are essentially identified by people in the JRC who represent a completely different philosophy of what they want for agricultural production. Everyone else, why didn't they mobilize? They didn't mobilize because they see the methodical effort on all the fronts. I'm coming to the olive oil now. I met with my Spanish counterpart, trying to find solutions. They've taken a measure. We have one metre in our hands. I understand the pressure you take from the producers. I understand their anxiety. I understand you're transferring it. That's not why I hurt you. I commend you for that. But now something different has to be done. We must explain, and we must truly explain, not opposition sterile, but creatively. All the Members of Parliament must be able to explain themselves to them. Why, what do we have in our hands? We have general policies in our hands. What are the general policies? Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 2052/88 laying down certain technical measures for the conservation and management of fishery resources applicable to vessels flying the flag of Norway (presented by the Commission) That's what's happening. There are certain plans we make. We'll make them more, but first that's it. I heard one question: "But why do they sell to the Italian bulk and don't sell standard?" The Secretary-General, Mr.Tragakos, has a very long experience in these matters, because he was the head of one of the great olive-growing cooperatives in our country in Laconia. I asked him this question: “Why are you selling over there? Why do you sell to the Italian dealer and do not sell to the Greek printer?’ The answer is easy, simple and reasonable: 'Why do they give us better prices'? I called the Greek printers and asked: “Why do Italians give better prices than you? Why don't we give better prices?' The answer was simple: 'Because we do not have access to the commercial network, because we do not have the commercial capacity, which the commercially promoted chains of Spanish and Italians have.' Next question: “Why should we not have one? To claim it and to acquire it." Yes, sir. "Do we have the necessary quantities to get into the large commercial chains that move olive oil in Europe and reach it on the market?" The answer is: 'We don't have the quantities'. Then I asked, I, the naive: "It's okay, we don't have all the quantities. Why don't you take the quantity we have, sell it, and then it's over, sell the others." This is not the case, because this is precisely the high quality and standardization of olive oil will actually lead the consumers of the supermarket to ask for it again. When he asks again and does not find it, that is a commercial problem for the supermarket. So he doesn't get into this process. Does this give us a strategy for our olive oil? Sure. What's the strategy? High-quality, increased standardisation and access to markets, which are smaller and are prepared to pay more accurately. This is the olive oil strategy. But if you say to me: "Okay, that's nice, it's more strategic and wider, but man today didn't make his production. What can we do?’ Then, one measure is actually available to us - this is what we discussed with my Spanish counterpart - storage. He's gone. Storage is a measure - because it may not be known to those who are not following us - that you are taking an authorisation from the European Commission in order to prevent the low-quality olive oil from being removed from the market, to create an artificial shortage, and then to support a small amount of this storage of the producer, to create an artificial shortage on the market, and this artificial shortage leads to a price increase. That's the general philosophy. In order to work, it depends on quantities and is also dependent on the desire of the producer itself, if he wants to do so. We are considering this measure. We are prepared to implement this measure. However, I also want us to be on the ground in terms of results. Because - I say again - this means very large quantities, so that it can actually create a certain impact on the market. So we are following the problem, we understand the issue, but we still know and tell people that the potential for intervention in this particular matter is specific. I am not saying about the strategy, I am not saying about the wider one. I am not saying what should really be the aim of changing, but I hope you do not blame this government, because in six months the strategic result has not changed for what has been done a long time ago in olive oil. I therefore answered the practical issues that we have to deal with before us. I have to say that this is the picture, as well as pointing out the fact that, in this seven-month period, we have brought important trade agreements, the issue with Kosanis ended, the European Union-China trade agreement was made, these agreements opening up markets. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Let me say something, too. It is a huge success - and we are talking about olive oil - to avoid imposing duties on olive oil. It was attacked in Spain, it was not imposed on Greek olive oil. That gives a comparative advantage. Yes, but the comparative advantage the government secured it. Now the printers and dealers have to take advantage of it. The government won't go to sell olive oil to the United States. It's the logistics department that should do his job. We're giving a comparative 25% advantage, can't get the Spanish oil, good, let's go and sell ours. They have an important advantage secured by the Greek Government and the Prime Minister personally, with his actions. What else can we do? We're going to another matter now. You raised the issue of ELGA. To speak honestly about ELGA, to talk with numbers. I want you to tell me what your opinion is. I have heard you all complain about the subject of the Rules of Procedure. With you. I'll add more complaints. Delays. No advance payments or limited payments had to be made. Internal relationship, that is, how much money is paid for one production, how much money the other pays, in relation to the amount it receives. I can add criticisms for the ELGA. But should I add something else, which should concern us? I talk to people who have handled these issues and therefore know what I am talking about and know about the difficulty and have no ignorance of danger, as others may have once. ELGA's revenue is EUR 170 million. That's it. No fifteen and eighteen million payroll costs. Yes, sir. Provision for a legal reserve of 12 million. How long have they left? From 170 minus 18, minus 12, there were 140 million left. ELGA is straight when he pays 140 million losses. How much does ELGA pay for the last two or three years? Over 200. What does that mean, practically? It means 60 to 70 million 'inside' each year. How does he pay for it? He's in reserve. How long will he eat a reserve if we keep this up? So you are saying that the Rules of Procedure should be extended. Can I do it now? How responsible am I? Enlargement of damage covered in the Rules of Procedure means - as my colleague said - that is a plausible additional cover, so I am raising the deficit. Isn't it meant to cover further damage? Yeah, but how are we gonna do that? To sit down and consult now, to make accounts here, in this Chamber, because I have heard that you do not want to address the issue of private insurance. I will not tell you that we have been electorally told - which we have said - I will not tell you that we have been ordered to do so - which we have received - I will not tell you that we are carrying out the mandate of the Greek people by discussing private insurance, which is the case. I won't tell you any of this. I'll tell you: explain to me where. Because we need to resolve this, we need to find 70 million to cover the deficit that ELGA is making every year. Kick the can and tell the world that I've been making a proportionate study, like SYRIZA's been doing for four and a half years? I'm not doing this. We will deal with this and we will resolve it. I won't go to the easy solution either. Would it not be an easy solution to me - at the level of making'managerilliki' - to say forgive me, to increase the contribution of the ELGA? How old is he now? It's 4%, median. Very good, I'm uploading it - at 170 million, I miss 70 million - by 25%. 4% I make it 5%, I make it 5 parties something. I don't want to do that. I didn't have to do anything. I have, however, already set up the committee, which has started and studied all good international practices, all the possibilities applicable to all insurance systems. He looks at the financial data of ELGA, discusses and prepares the possibilities to see what role private insurance can play in addition to ELGA. I'll come and introduce it to you. I have promised that it will be June 2020, but perhaps the presentation will take place earlier. The final date, for the committee to bring me this information and start a synthetic debate, is March 2020. I'll present it to you in total. I cannot, however, go to reason that I will add losses, while, in fact, the ELGA is in this situation. I hope you do not suggest it because it would be extremely irresponsible. So, in this matter, we are also working specifically, methodically, in order to achieve a concrete result. I also heard something about the stack facilities. At the moment there is a project prepared, which essentially leads to the simplification of the licensing of the statistic installations. This project has been completed by the Ministry of Rural Development and is located in the Ministry of Development, which is essentially the body that collects authorisations. My attempt - and I am committed - is that this will be over by June 2020. I think I'll bring it in sooner and the process will be accelerated. Therefore, we will have a solution to the issue of stack facilities earlier, perhaps in the first quarter or shortly after the first quarter of 2020. I see I've been over my time. So I'll turn it off as follows. As far as the Greeks are concerned, you need to find another Minister to tell him that. Find someone else, but you mustn't tell me that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u116	Can we find another guy? You're the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u117	Let me tell you why. You do well to say it. As you can see, I'm joking. I've said it in this Chamber before. Today, in fact, I consider myself responsible at European level - an article by Politico - to raise gastronomic nationalism. This was his article 'Politico': 'The price of gastronomicalism', which refers to my efforts in the Council of Ministers, to achieve two things. I have not talked to you about the CAP at all. I keep it for dentistry, unless I have time to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u118	You don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u119	I don't have time, so I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u120	Give the minister time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u121	I don't know. Whatever the President says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u122	You'll go on later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u123	Why was I given that designation? Because in the Council of Ministers I have asked that there should be an indication not only of the country in which the product was manufactured but also of the ingredients used to produce the product in order for the consumer to know what it is eating. Secondly, because you have referred to issues relating to unfair trade practices in milk, I will say not only. I'm watching the word I'm using. I didn't say harmonized. It's harder to talk about the harmonised one. It refers to competition law. Before you say that, she needs more foundation and documentation. I have, however, talked about unfair trade practices involving agricultural products. There has been a directive on this, which has a deadline for transposition in May 2021. I have given a mandate - and is preparing for our legislative work - to incorporate this directive by June 2020. Part of this directive is the issue of so-called open prices. I am ending here, saying that this first seven months, objectively many things have been done. They are objectively integrated into a specific very organised strategy and, of course, there is still more to be done, for which we are working methodically and which we are achieving a step-by-step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much. Good evening, good week, good month from me. We'll go quietly. SYRIZA's quiet today. We are entering the chapter Parliamentary Representatives. Mr. Scandalides has the floor. Would you also use your tritology, why did the Chief speak? Are you covered in six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u125	And my tritology. But I won't answer the minister's second language. You don't have to. He's already said a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u126	Three more minutes, that's nine minutes. I put in the first six minutes and we see. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u127	I like this conversation very much. Because, in many ways you can disagree with Mr. Voridis, but he is a smart man and a good demagogue, who uses numbers in a sophisticated way and gives answers "apostometics" is supposed to be on the issues you put him in. I, Mr Voridis, do not believe that in seven months' time you could solve the problems of rural areas. And that's clear. What I cannot accept is a mentality, which puts all matters under your own light. For example, there are no mobilisations. But there are no mobilizations in the first months of a government, when people need to feel that something will change in their lives. The fact that in the early months of this government they disapprove of you is indicative that nothing has changed in people’s lives. Secondly, it is fragmentary to say that, on the one hand, there are products where we do not incur you because prices are good in the mandarin and they are not good in oil. They're not making any setback. Because - as you know better than me, because you are its warmest enthusiast - the free market shapes the price of high. The State intervenes. It has a right in indirect ways and in different ways to intervene in reducing farmers' incomes for oil. I didn't hear that. On the contrary, you quoted them, that either we praise you for one thing or we blame you for the other. But we only have to blame you for the other one. The other is the market. Thirdly, the issues relating to taxation. Of course, you have reduced taxation. We did not tell you that you did not reduce taxation. We have told you that the framework of the tax and contribution mix is suffocating. We have proved this with certain percentages and in a specific way, for so many days. The President of the Change Movement repeats it all the time. It is clear that you have again responded in a specific unilateral way. You tell us, after so few months you've been in the government, if we have a right to criticize you. You know, Mr Voridis, we have a sensitivity, which relates to the experience and history of this party on the agricultural issue. Now you're going to vote again for the law on the stack facilities. The stack facilities had been voted in 2012. They had been voted and had gone to the European Union. It was a very simple process, where three-member counties committees would decide on the spot for the stable facilities. And since then, not only has the law been applied, which would end in three months the license of the stack facilities, but it has been the worst. We come to one - if you want - a depository of our hypocrisy and every one of our laws, and we say: 'With the amendment the authorisation is extended, the fines are not in place'. We therefore have the right to abdicate you for all seven months on this matter. You could never vote again for a law, rebuild it all over again. We have a right, because we believed then the Greek state and this did not exist, throughout the period, after our country's practical governance. Because we have been talking about the agri-food model since then - and we are talking about twelve, ten, eight years - and we have come to an end and started an effort, with the agri-food partnerships, and we have begun to build institutions and these institutions have ceased, as by magic. Today, eight years later, there is absolutely nothing in terms of highlighting the new model for the country's production and economy, which would provide answers to problems in the medium and long term for the growth strategy. We have a right, because for ELGA, when we had received it from your own government in full disintegration, we made it with the forgived Thodore Sarris, the man who died, from Elias, really, in the context of a modern model, a process that had taken steps in particular, implemented and went on to solve the problem in a short time, throughout its entire extent. In other words, additional and everything, and resources in itself to be resurrected and self-financed. Nevertheless, nothing has ever happened, and now we are reconstructing the framework of the ELGA, if we ever decide to modernise this place. Since then the farm oil card has been prepared and it has been eight years. We don't indulge you for the seven months. We don't see what the plan is. I wish you could convince us. We still have a view, which is very specific, that the agri-food model can name the regions of the country, can form the basis of a development strategy which, in connection with the environment, geography, comparative advantages, tourism, culture, the history of the country, can form another rapid growth model. We believe that the country's most productive sector at industrial level - within or outside of import - is the agri-food model, and that should certainly strengthen our policy. I come to the subject of the CAP. Because it's good to talk about the past, but see what happens from now on. I'm going to ask you a very specific question. At the time when the CAP was negotiated - it was my own minister - I had put the question of the Community's own resources to the Council of Ministers, namely the possibility of increasing the European Union's budget. I have been referred to the Council of Finance Ministers and have had Mr Papandreou go to the Council and raise the issue of the Union's own resources. At the moment, they are leaving EUR 84 billion from Brexit, which means that the funds will be much less. There is again a need for a genuine negotiation on the issues of increasing the own resources, so also the resources, which are actually allocated to rural policy. The country has the highest aid per acre and is our project. What if the external convergence of rights for direct payments is implemented, i.e. aid per acre in all the Member States? We will have even more adverse effects and have the green agreement, which is a new European Union long-term policy on climate change, which affects the primary sector, both in terms of production and food production and in terms of payment of aid. I ask you whether you will raise the issue of the Union's own resources in the budget, whether the Prime Minister will give a political battle to ensure that aid from the perspective of the collapse, in fact, of the area and, of course, whether we will ensure, on the basis of the new needs, a new orientation of the country's internal resources so that the rural economy does not collapse. These are three crucial questions. You have them in front of you. We will judge you very strictly for this, and then you will show whether there is or is not a plan in the rural economy. Because in management, we can all be good, but change is the hard part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much. Voliotis has the floor for six minutes, Christos Bukokouros from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, you have very well asked and brought this timely question, because we are discussing a field of strategic importance in the bet on the development of the country, one of the top areas. I am afraid, however, that the issues which you raise in your question are yes, but they are current and individual and do not, in any case, touch neither the vision of the agri-food sector nor, if you wish, the government's plans for the development of the primary sector. Of course, the Minister replied to you in this zero-duty approach, that nothing has happened in seven months. The agricultural issue in Greece dates back to the time of the distribution of national land and despite the 20th-century agricultural reforms, the agricultural issue remains today in the country. Why is he staying? Because if we look at the footprint of the primary sector in the country's GDP, that is very low. This, of course, is painful to see, because it is an area that employs hundreds of thousands of people. On the other hand, it is also hopeful, because it demonstrates the potential for the development of the primary sector. It is unfair that you should talk about this government, which has gone ahead with the reduction of farmers' taxation. It is not just that he maintained the tax-free rate, it is not just that he threw the primary income tax of up to EUR 10 000 at 9%, it is not that he introduced the EUR 1,000 tax-free per child - you know, the rural families, ladies and gentlemen, it is the ones that have the many children and these must be added to the tax-free rate established by the government - but it is also the cost of production. In fact, we inherited a PPC - Ghost from the previous government, which faced a real risk of collapse and the government comes in and establishes this: it increases the capacity for power generation, the well-known net metering, and eliminates, if you like, the cost of power production, as the Minister has just noted. It is not only a reduction in electricity production costs, but you see that our Government is also dealing with the issue of water shortages, which are one of the top issues on the agricultural issue today. We put the question of the partial transport of water at the top of Acheloos on the table again to reverse the environmental problem of Thessaly. Aren't you aware that, from the total irrigation water, in the country today 70% come from pumping, which has now reached overflow, and only 30% are from surface water? Conversely, this is true in other European countries, where 70% are surface water and 30% come from pumping. Parliament's major political forces are opposed to this project, for which the Greek people paid EUR 1 billion. We are talking about a PPC, which offers better prices to the farmer, energy adequacy, while for years the dams of Sykia and Messochora, ready investments of the Greek people to produce clean and economic energy, remain inactive. So adequacy of water for the rural world is a serious issue. It's one of the top issues. You are asking for special measures for national products. The Minister told you. Is it not the interprofessional protection of the feta of a national product, which we have been struggling for twenty years for its creation? Isn't it the bill for cooperatives, which were in the first ten bills by the government, protection of national products, olive oil, feta, which I said before and of cotton? We must finally understand in this country that national products are not just leading products. National products are the products that enhance the country's food adequacy and are exported, bringing good producer prices, incomes and wealth to the country. Therefore, all these products are national products and should be treated equally seriously by the state. You said about the oil. A duty-free tariff is Greek oil in the United States, while Spanish is customized. Of course, Minister, we must pay attention to all these stories with the Greekisation of Spanish olive oil. Because that's what's going on. Indeed, the Spanish have caught the Greek markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u130	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u131	Let him speak, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u132	You're asking to change the system of tampering. You say it starts in June. But the problem of tacosy isn't when it starts. This year, we had toast until Christmas in the olive-producing areas. It is now mutated and we have seven generations of wood. We have to go to exact farming. We have to go to intelligent agriculture, to electronic pitfalls, to gps to see where the homicide takes place. We need to see the use of drones and all these methods. Why are you asking for a change in the Rules of Procedure of the ELGA? As if the ELGA Regulation were changed, there is a possibility that economic resources could be found to compensate all the oil producers in the country, which are hundreds of thousands. The national budget is needed, if the production of olive oil is not to be destroyed as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance for a while, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u133	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u134	The damage doesn't make a profit. It is therefore preferable, by using intelligent agriculture, to protect production rather than to compensate for it. Compensation is never whole and never gains. You're talking about farmers. You will allow me, Mr President-in-Office, to tell you that the greatest, at pan-European level, area-related support is not always an advantage. Because now that the bad times are coming with Brexit and the reduction, as you quite rightly said in 84 billion of the budget, and also the request by our new partners, the Eastern States, for first-speed compensation, may greatly reduce the budget. What we are doing is making use of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, where the bushy vegetation can be incorporated into the grassland and the average area aid is to be reduced so that we do not risk the demand for subsidies to be reduced. As far as I know from the head of the Ministry of Agriculture, the grazing plans, which will reflect these millions of grazing land acres recognized by the European Court of Justice, will soon become a reality. You're talking about strategic planning. The Minister will answer you. The meeting of the European Agricultural Development Ministers has been set for 20 February. The Member States' consultation begins in April. Where is it assumed that there is no design? Did you see him? Did you hear him? How do you question him? I would say, however, to close, Mr President, on the fundamental issue of rural development and the agricultural issue that exists, since I come from the region of the protagonist of the modern cooperative movement in the country, of the late Nicholas Michopoulou, the following: we have to understand in this country that we receive very little value from livestock products. We need to understand that the collective patterns are at a very low level in the country. Of course, the concept of cooperative has been very slandered over the past decades in our country. However, a new beginning is required. In Greece, only 17% of the products are moved through cooperative schemes and only 34% of the value is collected by the country. If we look at the Bank of Greece's periodic report on agri-food products...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u135	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think, however, that the debate has evolved normally and there are a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u137	You're not wrong. But then Mr. Apostle will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u138	Very good. So I was saying that if we look at the National Bank of Greece's periodic report, we will see that we lose billions annually, because we are unable to complete the agricultural and livestock value chain. It is all these issues for the organisation of production, to ensure 600 million for the improvement plans and 570 million for which we will, of course, learn the details in March from the European Investment Bank and the European Social Fund for low-priced loans in the long-term rural world, which will help them to modernise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u139	I have no more time to give you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u140	Yes, of course, I have, Mr President. I say, therefore, that it needs a plan organised to resolve the country's agricultural issue and the Prime Minister and Minister for Rural Development have set the agricultural sector from the start as a sector of great importance and strategic importance for the country's economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u141	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u142	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute. But you'll keep it. Is that right? Please. I have to give the floor to Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u143	I would like to ask my dear fellow Member if he has put the issue of Acheloos' diversion again. This issue for us has ended in 2014 in the Council of State and, indeed, we were not invited to the meeting of the debate. This issue is very much over, and I wonder how you bring it back to the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u145	Here, Mr Colleague, answer for twenty seconds, because you have exhausted the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u146	My dear colleague, both in politics and in communication, the terms used are very important. No one spoke of a diversion of Acheloos. We are talking about exploiting the hydroelectric plants that are ready and paid for by the Greek people in Sykia and Messochora. We're talking about a partial diversion, partial transport of water from the upper part of Acheloos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u148	Please. We can't take it that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u149	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u150	Dear friend, partial...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u151	Tell Mr. Always to carry it. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u152	Neither partial nor total...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u153	Dear colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u154	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u155	You're welcome. We're not having a chat. Tell Mr. Always to carry it. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u157	No, Mr. Simopoulos, please. Then will Mr. Katrinis, etc. Mr. Apostle from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please. Mr. Apostle, please start.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u158	Please calm down, ladies and gentlemen. I got the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u159	Please. You can tell them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. My name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u161	Ms. Ligoli, please. He didn't refer to you. We've been doing good so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u162	I would also like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u163	It was not mentioned anywhere, Mr Simopoulos. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I got the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u165	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u166	Then I'll give you the floor, Mrs. Liikali. Please. I have given the floor to Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u167	When you were colluding, you didn't have that. Now what's got into you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u168	How? And in the government when we were.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I've taken the floor. Talk when I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u171	No dialogue. Ms. Ligoli, please. And you're so kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u172	When Mr. Apostle is finished, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u173	Yeah, I promise. I'll give you the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u174	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u175	But I gave you my word. What else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u176	... because my name was mentioned, after Mr. Apostleus...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u177	Your name has not been mentioned. Otherwise, I would have given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u178	But everyone heard it. Please give me the reason after Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u179	I'll give him to you, 'cause you're asking nicely. Mr. Apostle, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, although the government is being asked today, I would like to say a few words about the mistaken reference made by Mrs Gennamata that the SYRIZA Government has exterminated the rural area. We - and, indeed, in memorandum conditions - succeeded for farmers, for the Greek farmer, for an individual tax of EUR 8 500, which means that over 95% of Greek farmers did not pay a single tax. On the contrary, the proposal of the then coexistence of the New Democracy and PASOK, in 2014, was to tax agricultural income with 13% of the first euro, i.e. tax elimination of 95% that they did not pay and do not pay a single tax with today's tax. In conclusion, you said: "In the six months, we did a lot of things." I'm telling you you didn't do anything. Apart from what you've found almost ready from us, you haven't done one positive intervention. On the contrary, you will create additional problems with the sloppyness you handle basic tools of rural space, such as collaboration. I have already heard your approach to the interprofessional feta. Your approach is subtle. You managed an institution that could provide much in space, turn it into a tool for claiming chairs on the board. Dissolve every effort of consensual function by reducing representativeness below 20%. There is no other country in the European Union that has fallen so low in representativeness. You have already made corrections before submitting your specific proposal. However, I would like to ask you one question: have you been concerned about the possibility of the European Commission considering any financing to interbranch organisations as State aid, which will result not only in the reimbursement of money but also in the persecution of their administrations? Since your first day in the Ministry you have been placed to salvage the cooperative space. With what you bring to the bill - which has been known - and in particular with the regulation that you enter privately into the capital of agricultural cooperatives and even with the right to participate in the management bodies, you are scandalously favouring all those who want to pass on the assets of cooperatives to natural persons with very little money. There will be no, Minister, serious cooperatives implementing this law. I'm not allowed to have time. I'll talk to you when the law comes to Parliament. From us, Minister, you have made a lot of progress and announced them as commitments, such as financial instruments, the agreement with the European Investment Bank, for example. Be careful, it will take a great deal of effort to see farmers' money from the European Guarantee Fund. Keep it in mind and do not announce things that are difficult. That's why I'm stressing it. Of course, you forgot to mention the 'farmer's Card' which gives farmers the possibility of liquidity over a billion euros and, indeed, low interest rates because of its connection with aid. You are announcing, Minister, every three and a little success in the payments of Community aid. It is now a point of order, Minister. This part of our effort has been brought into order, and all farmers no longer need to know something they already know. There is no need, in other words, for dull impacts on this issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, I would like a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u181	You still have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u182	You are announcing stricter controls on the market. We have given you two key regulations, compulsory labelling of milk, meat and their products, country of origin. Do you know what attempts we have made in the European Commission over the years to take these regulations? We have also given you, for the treatment of bad practices, the payment of vulnerable and fresh agricultural products up to sixty days. It takes an effort and you should put particular pressure on the Treasury to help this effort. You have misled the farmers, however, Minister, with your promise to intervene in the cost of production, which you have also made 'a reduction in the cost of oil'. There are budgetary possibilities today. However, you have deceived them by offering them the improvement plans for the Net Metering programme and the market up to 75% of the energy they produce from renewable energy sources, beyond meeting their needs, without any data on which you support this increase, with a risk of lowering the agricultural activity, with what this means in particular for the high productivity that you have also delivered, with the regulation you have made, in extra-agricultural hands. Only a few words on the CAP and the Rural Development Programme. I've told you before. You are being dangerously delayed, Mr Minister, such as, for example, the preparation of the CFP's strategic plan, the implementation of major public projects. All this proves one key point: Minister, you do not have a development and support strategy - I stress the'support' - of the agricultural sector. Suffice to communicate, which, of course, offer you. The Greek people know that. The least positive you are projecting is a slap in our own work. At the same time, of course, it seems that you are losing the bet of everyday life, and that is what farmers are experiencing at the moment. When they see that their income is reduced and their liabilities increase, mobilisation is a one-way road for them. We in this anguish and vindication stand by them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much Mr Apostle. Mrs. Liikali, are you insisting on the thirty seconds? Can I have your word?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u184	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u185	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I should just like to say that Mr Bukouros said that there was no personal head. In my opinion, Mr Bukkoros knows her personally, because she took part in the relevant meetings, as does the Minister. It is quite clear in the legal frameworks which exist, with respect, as the government has promised, in all the existing decisions, as you said first and foremost. The needs that exist at the moment in both the countryside and our region require us to be vigilant and to move forward with plans that will alleviate our region. I don't take it personally. For the work you have referred to, I imagine that our positions are also given. Thessaly is this project of partial diversion of Acheloos's upper...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u187	Transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u188	Partial transfer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u189	Now, however, you are escaping and there will be a reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u190	That's why I didn't want to get into the titles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u191	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u192	Let's not get into the titles, because we have a disagreement on the titles too. So let go of it. We have a clear position on that. Don't challenge me and don't give me the glove, or I'll always pick it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u194	Ms. Ligoli, please. Mr Simopoulos, I will give you the floor, although your name has not been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u196	No, you won't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. In the period 2012-2014 I happened to handle this project and I want to help, since we are few here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u198	It's not about Acheloos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u199	Let me say that there is no longer any question with the Council of State because the decision has been changed. The Council of State rejected the previous decision which included a very large diversion. From there on, during the period 2012-2014, new decisions were made, other studies were carried out, which of course frozen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u200	That is what my colleagues are aware of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u201	A further decision could therefore be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u202	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece, who patiently awaits her turn, as is Mr Boubas from the Greek Solution. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u203	Please, my colleague is speaking. We're not doing this!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u204	Within twenty days we have had two questions about the problems that agitate and trouble farmers, and indeed from political forces responsible for their exacerbation. Of course, the proposed solutions are in the context of this policy - of the European Union's policy and of the CAP - which has led bio-opportunities farmers and farmers to racing for their survival, with pan-Hellenic coordination, but also solidarity and coexistence with the working people's movement. In our view, these mobilisations have an impact on the questioning of these questions and let some of the compromise movement cultivate the view that nothing is going on. And, Minister, there were rural clubs and federations, named after them, which are incompatible with impoverishment, which is the result of this agricultural policy. And, of course, the communist farmers were ahead and we are proud of that. And it is no coincidence that these clubs and federations have had the anti-grassroots policy implemented over time by all governments, implementing the capital and the European Union's guidelines, a policy that exacerbates the problems of small and medium-sized farmers and their families, speeds up the concentration of land and production, which all of you have avoided, leading to even faster poverty and impoverishment. And that is what more farmers understand. And let me tell you this: they weren't suddenly poor. You all contributed. And the cooperatives went bankrupt because your policy was implemented. Now you are concerned about why subsidies are being reduced. And when they were taken, they simply now go faster, because the European Union is directing this money to Europeans and European equipment. And it's not just Brexit. He's silenced. Mass struggles give rise and optimism. That is why governments over time undermined and hosted them, since repressive forces unravelled and destroyed the tractor tires - indelible memories - in your time, until a week ago in Carditsa with government authoritarianism, so that farmers would not reach the national road. But where are they going to protest about their survival problems? Through their field? However, the issues and the questions raised in today's question of the Change Movement, like SYRIZA, but also those that are not mentioned and which are demands in the agricultural mobilisations, who created them, who is responsible? The small and medium-sized farmers themselves are right to mention and incriminate the European Union and Greek governments who decide and implement policies to close down small and medium-sized enterprises in order to encourage concentration on large and commercial industrial capital. You do not want and you cannot conflict with the cause of the problems of agriculture that are the capitalist gain, the concentration of land and production on the large ones promoted by the common agricultural policy. This agricultural policy New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK implement as governments and hide them, camouflage them as opposition. Who privatized the energy, promotes the water, the compost industry? A factory stayed private too. That is why Mr Vorides also complains that you are wrong, since you are applying the same policy. This is why there has never been any planning - nor could there be - for the organisation of production to produce cheap safe foods that satisfy the people's nutritional needs, but also for the production of cheap and good quality raw materials for the development of other industries such as cotton, textiles, textiles, or even textiles and sugar industries linked to pastry, refreshments, etc. or even livestock and link with the meat industry, dairy industry, etc. We are talking about manufacturing industries that guarantee jobs and not unemployment not only for farmers on the raw material, but also for workers, scientists, transporters and other specialities. And yet, many of these branches are levelled or cooled. They have been replaced by imports of products that we can produce. There are possibilities for this, if you like, the JRC is calling on small and medium-sized farmers and farmers to strengthen the rural radical movement, together with the rest of the populace, to demand requests that can give some lifesavings to make time, because this alone is not enough. Steps must be taken to ensure that more self-employed farmers understand that they are the opponents of industrialists, big traders, bankers, who are supported by governments and the common agricultural policy. They're the ones who can suck them off hard and sweat and have to go on the sidelines if they want to see a white day. The way out therefore lies in the struggle for socialisation of the concentrated means of production, with state-owned trade and production development infrastructures, with central planning, which will make use of the country's advantages and production capacities, of course, out of European Union and NATO commitments. Thus, small-scale farmers will be part of a higher type of economy organisation through the agricultural production cooperative, fully free from banks, industrialists, big-timers, tax and urban state, while ensuring a reduction in costs and protection of production. This is the socialist way of producing, which is of benefit to many, because overall it is a superior quality social system, which focuses on people and their needs, which is why its pluralism and its parties are hostile.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much. The reason for this is that Seraios MP from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u206	I've got the Serres' State Secretary listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u207	I imagine the State Secretary will listen very carefully to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister and Minister, I do not question your intentions or your knowledge. After all, with the State Secretary of State from the Serres rural area, we are. She's my neighbor. But here, gentlemen of PASOK, we pay sins of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u209	Is it PASOK again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u210	Again, since the management of the Mediterranean programmes in the 1980s, since 2014, we have put farmers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u211	And if we didn't do it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u212	As far as cooperatives are concerned, the legislative framework from you has begun. The synergist movement with the SYDASE, with the OSCE, the NODAS, the PASPEGES that I have finished. I also know about the sins of cooperatives. It has not changed the legislative framework yet. All these peasants are responsible for many past sins in the cooperatives. Mr. Scandalidis, he's always got one. I didn't say that you didn't make right cuts, but that's where we're paying past mistakes. We didn't get here by accident. I would like to ask this: Gentlemen of the Ministry, what is your vision? Is it, for example, organic farming? Because since yesterday's publications say that the financial aid will be stopped in biologically. In other words, we need to invest in organic farming, which leaves conventional, to give money to go to new quality characteristics. There is no proper distribution. There are farmers who pay up to six thousand acres of zero and take them all. If farmers are burnt once, farmers are two. In this and the livestock farmers are to blame, because they had to be the power in the unit there. For example: ELGA compensation regulation, Minister, masculine. If it's three lambs and it's not four, you're not compensated. There's a law inside. Look at him. If the wolf eats nine lambs and doesn't eat ten, you call the wolf to come back. He's got to eat ten! Cataract fever: The livestock farmers, when faced with this, were not compensated. In other words, there are gaps, we have done nothing, the ETHYE has been abolished, we have lost considerable races, and I ask the following question: Some time ago in New Democracy the bill "I invest in Greece and other provisions". Mr. Georgiadis didn't bring it? The Corporate Compact for the Framework for Development, with a time horizon of 2027, is moving in three areas...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Booba, I'm sorry to interrupt you. A little further than the microphone. The practicers can't write you down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u214	I've got that! Is it okay, Mr. President, here in the distance? Good. The Partnership Pact for the Framework for Development, therefore, in three pillars - that is what I have read in recent years - will be moving: green development, human resources development, especially in vulnerable social groups and, thirdly, agri-food. We have a business plan, do we have a policy on how to move to a processing stage in farming? I've never seen how we're gonna move in order to promote money. After all, it will be invested. Fishing in the years to come, for example, will rise worldwide 70% and we are the only ones who have to close some of the Fish farming TEIs, such as the one from the New Machinery that went to the Messolonghi did not accept it by the University of Patras. I mean, I mean, there is no visionary policy in order to invest in what is called the primary sector, but to make substantial changes. Symbolic movement: Make regional decentralisation, Minister, go to the Ministry of Rural Development at the headquarters of Thessaly Kampou, not only NATO headquarters there, be the Ministry. It cannot be done from one day to the next if we want to say that we are escaping from what is called centralism, a great policemanship, to launch. Mr Apostle, in the improvement plans for Mr Arachovitis I remember you made three changes to the improvement plans and eight others came with Mr Kasimis. How did they come for the improvement plans? With good intentions you did, because you understood some injustices in order to raise the pie. The sins of the past are "all the pounds, all the money", Mr. Scandalidis, you remember them, the courts...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u215	Were we talking about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u216	No, sins in the primary sector have started ever since. I didn't say you did it, did I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u217	Hatzidakis used to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u218	Good, I agree. I agree! Let's make a flash back, let's see what's going on. So let's go on other issues. Should we go to fishing and tell you what's the problem with fishermen today? First of all, with cuts in some old locusts - the European Union is very strict in legislation - if it does not have the necessary equipment, it is taking it out. If, in territorial waters, our own, they can fish one and a half nautical miles, in international waters they can fish up to six nautical miles. The Turks come in the five thousand nine hundred, enter the international territorial waters, nothing happens. Our people are paying the marble from the European Union, rightly, but they are also facing problems there. Let's go to another issue that I've been in over the last few days - you know - Minister, with Law No3175/2003 - you're both legal and I want you to see these blocks - which replaced Law No 1475/1984 and which concerns geothermality, is it possible if we do not amend? Of course, this also started in order for the small investor to be able to actually go to a geothermal field to use, because geothermality also has electricity production and district heating. The first source of heat pump in Greece was in 1992. And I say that because we both have spirulina in Serres and the municipality of Nestos started the driers of some plants there, because we as Greek Solution in a costly programme what do we say? We invest in small, flexible brand name cooperatives and, above all, with the help of geothermality - which must be simplified, modified, modified, this law, the old one - should be able to go to organized greenhouses, go to crucifixed vegetables, go to table products. Why have we been on her for so many years, gentlemen, in cotton? Because we have not been on stock exchanges for cotton since we signed the CFP, which is a tombstone, we have not introduced the carbon dioxide tax. It enables us to do this by the European Union. I want this ministry to establish it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you know the eparel system? It's the sprays. Twenty-eight sprays tell the apple, four sprays in the orange. Do it! And because I don't have much time, look at the issue of geothermality, Mr. Voridis and Mrs. Arabatzis. I want you to be - and you will be - a powerful duet, but I want you to take it to the law of geothermality, to simplify this, to go to organized greenhouses in order to have an organised production. It is within the program of the Greek Solution as regards the primary sector. I want to go to another hot thing. This is African swine fever. In Bulgaria, the situation is devastating. Bulgaria will already receive financial support of EUR 2,900,000. The cost of damage can be 2,000,000 leva, or 1,1. Some time ago August 9th, thirteen miles from the Greek-Bulgarian border, two cases of pigs were detected. Why do I want to catch up with you? Precaution is always better than healing. Because it is transmitted through by-products of feedingstuffs. And since there is now the Greek feed in the droughts, it would be an opportunity to step on African swine fever and to be able to place it on Greek feed, because it is considered food and maize and cereals, which are in the droughts, because we are importing the CFP by reason of the CFP. It is an opportunity for African swine fever, which exists in Estonia, Latvia, Czechoslovakia, Sardinia - started in 2017 - to be able to feed the Greeks. According to the last bill, in the Committee on Islands, we give incentives to feed production on islands of less than three thousand inhabitants. It is a good measure, because we import clover, we import meat, we import other materials. It is an opportunity to go to our own, but this is a good thing to extend to semi-urban areas and not just to island regions. A lot can be done. We need to make areas in the field of agriculture and livestock and fisheries, if we want to move. To close, I would say that the trade balance, according to financial data from ELSTAT, in the first half of 2019 "switched" a little further. Of course, we have a deficit of EUR 42 million. I am surprised, however, that exports have increased in oil products in Greece - as if we have the heavy industry - while on the contrary we have a reduction in agricultural exports. They cannot really five regions of Greece at the moment have taken to the detriment of all this exportable interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u219	Finish, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u220	Finally, do something - Mrs Arabatzi knows about the problem very well - with the incarpia we have in olive trees this year in Serres Prefecture. We had the tonsils thing. Mr Avdela, you have asked the question since August on this matter. See what we're going to do with the olive growers. It's not a matter of tears, but we were incarpia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, too. You have the "Velopou system", at the end we say twice "and I close and close" and you have gone four, five more minutes. He has students! Mr Panas has the floor for five minutes from the honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u222	Minister, I listened carefully. First of all, I believe that your success in rural mobilisation is not judged to be yours. I think it is a natural development of a ministry and a balanced agricultural policy not to become mobilisations. That's how we have to judge that. Secondly, for the six-month period, we can certainly put that at some levels it is small, but an overall planning had to exist. I heard before your colleague about 'net-metering', I heard innovation, intelligent agriculture, drones, something we had a few days ago in 'Agrotica' a week ago, and I was there, but I heard that from your colleague. I didn't hear how you guys will do it here in Stepma. Anyway, I'm coming back to some issues and I ask: Will the government finally motivate farmers by reviewing the level of insurance contributions in view of the insurance coming? Will the government pay greater compensation to contributions and, in particular, to farmers? Because if the restructuring of the ELGA leads to an increase in the premium, then the reduction would say that it is going hazelnut, it comes out, it does not exist. Will you introduce the exemption of a new farmer from the insurance obligation for at least the first three years, thereby giving a strong incentive to primary production? Will you take appropriate initiatives to reduce production costs? We of the Change Movement made a proposal for the Agricultural Oil Card. Will you adopt it? You also talked about livestock farming. It is a pretext that the FFD's controls should be further intensified. To impose strict fines and infringements to be made public. It is only in this way that there will be an example and a real response to the phenomenon. I have addressed you, Minister, a question for the extension of the validity of Law 4056/2012 on the authorisation of livestock establishments. I haven't received an answer. The last extension was formally granted until 30-6-2019. I believe that it is necessary to further extend the fines in order to freeze and have the time to comply with the licensing framework of their plants. Given the timely and costly procedure envisaged, their integration is difficult and the fines are running. So things will get worse if they are in a bad economic position. Finally, I come back to the issue - the major one for me - for all rural and not just areas. I did not hear you say anything about climate change. Our country will be faced with the challenges of the climate crisis at the same time as the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution, but, in fact, has not yet guaranteed the necessary institutional reforms that ensure the attraction of long-term private capital and investment, while not building the necessary changes to the necessary educational reform and a competitive and extroverted production model. So the challenges are multiple. At the same time, there is also a necessary condition that the energy transition will not leave any citizen, no region behind. We therefore need a comprehensive plan, measures and additional resources, both European and national, to support the social and economic difficulties that will arise, particularly in areas based on fossil fuels. Furthermore, in order to seek and strengthen alternative local development actions and to prepare for workers and citizens, there must be continuous vocational training. I didn't hear it anywhere. It must be first on the agenda. The 2014-2020 rural development programme, which you mentioned earlier, has not been used for the use of renewable energy sources in agriculture, especially in the extraction of irrigation water and in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. I have also heard before about the absorption of the rural development programme, but this is not because of investment, but because of payments relating to balancing, biological and nitrates, investment, as well as processing. Ladies and gentlemen, we could say a great deal more. I would like to refer a little to the last chapter on agricultural cooperatives, where the new bill comes in the next few days in the House and we will have the opportunity to discuss it in detail. I'll make a comment. Because of the division in the institutional framework and in the own institutions of the representation of farmers, the sector has been dramatically weakened. For the record to say that Spanish olive oil is currently so competitive because Spain has the most and most well organized cooperatives. Finally, I would like the Minister to tell us what he is thinking about the new CAP and the reduction of Community funds. That's all from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. Sir, both in his protology and in his denology! He didn't get away at all. Minister, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank my colleagues. I would like to begin by requesting the mediation of Mr Apostleu. Mr Tsipras is at the moment in Laconia and Laconia has, as you know, olive growers and apparently raised the question of the price of olive oil. I guess they told him something about olive oil. And what did Mr. Tsipras say about olive oil? 'What has he done' says 'Mr Voridis? For Mr Arachovitis had provided some million for the Laconia oil producers. What happened to these millions?" Mr Apostle, have you ensured millions for the oil producers from the European Commission? Did you have one? Did you or didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u225	When you're done...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u226	What do you want me to finish? This is a nice question with a straight answer 'yes, we had', 'no, we didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u227	The answer is yes or no, not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u228	Good. Mr. Apostle to this easy question, to which someone obviously gave his Chief to tell us about the millions that Arachovitis secured, he doesn't want to answer us. But because you know how good I am and how mild and how relaxed I want it all to be and to be comfortable, I will give publicity and the letter of Arachovite to the European Commission. The famous file! They had a file made. It is a two-page letter that reflects the problems of olive oil. That's the file. In order to understand, in order to substantiate the legal requirements of the relevant article of the regulation, we have made a special scientific committee headed by the principal expert on olive oil, Professor Agula. I stress that we are trying to base an argument. Because that has a lot of issues. The most beautiful thing, however, is that after the letter Mr Arachovitis received an answer to the letter from the European Commission, in which he did not say much or much about Mr Hogan: 'But do you not know that you have a series of tools' - and he mentions them there, all of the budget, none of the European Commission, to be informed - 'to do what you think about them?' And yet he says to him the best: "But you had the opportunity to anticipate in the Rural Development Programme, take action to address the effects of climate change!" Question: Did the Rural Development Programme measure? Of course he did. What have you done, Mr. Apostle, and you're not telling Mr. Tsipras? You took the subway off! You took the subway out of the Rural Development Programme! All right, you did all this. Mr. Tsipras, why do you say you're uploading stories and being exposed this way? "The millions they have left," he says. You got one of Mr. Tsipras' millions, I imagine in the cooperative you'll be riding them now. It's Tsipra and Arahovite's money, the ones they made for Laconia's oil producers. I have said not to cause, because I will answer the questions. As much money as Tsipras gave to the Laconia and Messinia oil producers, I'll give exactly as much. Not to give that answer, because what he gave is zero. So we are trying with a structured process to see what can be founded on a difficult and demanding European process, with extremely dubious outcome. We are doing everything we can, but not listening to lies, because Mr Tsipras is pressing against the olive growers! I'm coming to the rest now. In the Change Movement, however, you also have to come up with some internal issues. First, what are you going to do with Acheloos? We said. I saw now that you're thinking about it a little. So you will be fermented with the issue of Acheloos, so that we can figure out what will happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u229	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u230	I'm saying, I'm feeling a slight dissatisfaction. An intuition I'm saying may not be accurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u231	It's your intuition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u232	It's my intuition, good. Wrong, good. Secondly, you must end up with what you want in the stack facilities. Why does Mr Scandalides stand up and tell me: 'Removals, extensions, what is this evil about extensions?', is your main rapporteur on the question and says 'What will happen? Aren't you going to give any extensions?' Let's end this, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u233	If we need to, we'll get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u234	Oh, we'll get an extension. All right! So I'm glad, because I'm making it easier for you to get in position. Parliamentary fermentation leads to a convergence of your views internally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u235	It's not in conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Apostle said something about the interprofessional feta. You're not really saying that. So, you're five years in government, you haven't been able to do it, we're seven months in government, we're changing and we're retiring - you say we're going on, I've done nothing else, I'm doing nothing else, I'm doing you, how we're going - your legislation that didn't allow these issues to go ahead and then you're telling me and you're resigning because - it says - we did the interprofessional feta! You didn't want to do it? And you are also in disparity with the announcements of your party, which were rightly praised on this matter. Others in resentment. Let's untie them, guys. Slowly. You are concerned about agricultural policy. To come in a unified position. Can't one go out and SYRIZA says "bravo, right, the interprofessional feta" and Mr. Apostleou comes here and says "Why did you do it interprofessional, it's not nice"! One of the two! In order not to create any impression, I say this because something has been heard, the next CAP will have as one of its main tools, in the context of the Green Agreement, the issue of organic products. Therefore, not only are there no thoughts of reducing them, on the contrary, they will be reinforced policies on biological issues. I come to the CFP and the strategic issues in general. The common agricultural policy: because I have heard that we are not dealing with, we are not watching etc., I have signed up to my counterparts during this seven-month period, over five or six declarations with Member States - I can tell you if you want them in detail - on how we should go to the CAP. These are issues which also concern the issue of the budget, issues relating to the relationship between the two pillars of the CAP and the issue of external convergence. Indeed, because I have listened to the issues of the strategy, I think I would ask that the committee concerned should be convened in this Parliament in order to have a debate on the CFP and the Ministry's strategy - both - so that we can finish it, so that you do not have any questions about what the Ministry's strategy is. You don't have one, but not to say so strongly that we don't have a strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u237	We've asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u238	I come to the subject of the CAP. What is it that we have before us on the subject of the common agricultural policy? What is the position of Greece? Greece's position is. There is no reduction in the CAP's funds. And what is Greece's next position? There is no external convergence. These are in two basic logs and two main slots. Let me just tell you what the European political environment is in general. Indeed, the position of the Ministers for Rural Development of the Member States in the Council of Ministers, to the vast majority, is that the budget for the CAP should not be reduced. But where will this be decided? This is decided at the summit. In other words, the issues of the budget are directly related to the multiannual financial framework. It is therefore part of the debate that the Prime Minister has already started with Mr Michelle. So this has the following parameters: what about the CAP? What's his position? We called it our place. Do not decrease. What does it say about cohesion policies? What's his position? Climb? Should they come down? Stay firm? Thirdly, there are the so-called new policies. I have heard it here in a different way, in its own vocabulary, by Mrs Manolakou. What are new policies? Indeed, it is money that has to do with, for example, Just Translation Funds, the Fair Transfer Fund, which is of interest, because it is, in fact, the fund for deprivation and absorption of impact. Are we not interested in these amounts? We are one of the main countries we have committed ourselves in a direction of liberation in the coming period. So we are interested in these amounts. Or there are amounts that have to do with immigration, a new policy. Are we not interested in these amounts? We're obviously interested in them. Or amounts to strengthen the security of the external borders. Are we not interested in these amounts? We're an external border. This is new money, new amounts that go in and have been correctly pointed out by Mr Scandalides, I think we have a reduction in the United Kingdom's contribution to the European budget. So be careful how the equation is made: Steady here. At least, if we do not have to increase the CAP policy, which I will tell you, because there is a thought and a debate on the issue of the final budget of the CAP. Secondly, to decide what to do with cohesion policies. New money for new policies. The amounts of the United Kingdom shall be deducted. What's the solution? One. The increase in the contribution of the Member States. There's no other way. Members must put more money, what you say own funds, in the budget of the European Union. This obviously affects, above all, the members who are net contributions to the European budget. The rest, as you can imagine, can say this, but we say it more easily than those who actually will have to pay. This is the great debate within the Union. This is the difficult balance we need to find. This is the central debate we are engaged in. And because I have heard you ask what the strategy is, I can tell you that the strategy is clear. Obviously we have a clear position on what we want and we are trying to make agreements with other countries that have corresponding positions with us. That's what's happening. Hence the order of signatures on joint declarations and proposals to the Council of Ministers. That's what's going on. This is the great deal of negotiation and the great burden of the negotiation that the Prime Minister raises on his shoulders. That's what she's up to, that's what she works for, and that's what we're trying for. In particular, there are second internal discussions within the CAP. Whoever the budget is, there are approaches that say that if there is a reduction, the reduction must be made from the basic aid. There are approaches that say that the reductions must be made by pillar II, which is the investment pillar. There are locations that speak of flexibility, namely transferring funds according to absorption. States that pay greater attention to the development, investment, would obviously prefer to have a reduction in basic aid and have more money in the development piece. States which support the income support of their producers, particularly aid, do not see this with a good eye. There is therefore a second internal debate on how to shape the relationship between pillar I and pillar II in the common agricultural policy. And, of course, there is also the question of external convergence, which is concerned, which in itself is a chapter, I have no time to develop it. Here too, our country's position is very clear, we do not want any further external convergence. We are trying to do this in conjunction with and in consultation with countries which have a similar position with us, such as Italy. This is the environment in which the CAP is negotiated. There is another factor, which makes this debate more technical and more strategic and perhaps more complicated. That's what's called the Green Agreement. The Green Agreement strategy does not have it in its entirety and in its detail, we have some basic directions of what the Green Agreement is and where it wants to go. You realise that it is part of a comprehensive European Union strategy that wants to have a zero environmental footprint by 2050. Here for the political forces - let me - there is a clear debate and a clear dilemma, yes or no to the Green Agreement. The political forces must be placed here. So, because our position is clear that, of course, we are in favour of the Green Agreement, the individual specialisation of this strategy will be carried out by April 2020. There are, of course, questions which relate to the CAP, given that the CAP already has environmental measures in place. The question is whether the Green Agreement has additional environmental measures or the environmental measures already embedded in the CFP are those that will substantially cover the primary sector's contribution to the Green Agreement. The Green Agreement also has two issues, in my opinion, which concern us and concern us very strongly and fundamentally. The first issue is the need to have food, which have been labelled, which I have been talking about before. So foods of increased standardisation and increased certification are within the 'green' strategy. And the second, which is extremely important and for which I often speak in the Council of Ministers, is fraud in food. Fraud in food acquires transnational traits. There is now what we are saying here in Hellenism, which is said in a most neutral international way of mimicism, because it is also Italianisation, it is Hungarianisation, it is everything else. So what is called mimicism is actually something that is now becoming transnational. So what? In fact, there are traders, processors, in some cases industries, which cooperate internationally in order to bring about the desired result of mimicism, and that is why international cooperation by the states is required, and harmonisation of legislation is necessary, complex and additional actions are needed in this respect. That is why I am talking a lot about this issue in the Council of Ministers. I think it is one of the key issues that we need to include as a central and a major issue within the Green Agreement. Part of the Green Agreement is, of course, about the quality of the products, and therefore also about the identity and knowledge of consumers in relation to a number of issues, such as good environmental practices, good cultivation practices, animal welfare. So these are issues that we will find in front of us. I fit them - and I close them in two minutes, Mr President - with what must be our strategy for the agri-food sector. If you ask me, I think that the Green Agreement, but also the common agricultural policy, under certain conditions, are as if they were made for Greece. Why am I saying that? Greece has no vast production volumes. It also makes no sense to try to compete while it makes sense to try to reduce production costs. For example, we are talking a lot about agricultural oil. We're talking about it with the Prime Minister. He's been bothering him. It is 170 million, which must be found and a permanent measure must be taken. They can't have anything to do with the excesses or not. They must be integrated into the operation of the budget. It employs the Prime Minister, it employs the financial staff, it is something we think about. It has not been our election commitment, it is not in our election programme, but, regardless of this, it is something that we are interested in in the general understanding we have about it. But let me say something. The 170 million I tell you will come out of production costs, as today's amounts are deducted from taxation, from HSY. What's our big conversation? Our great debate is how to add value to a certain quantity of products we have. To increase productivity in the field, of course, but also our products are specific. How do we give this added value? We will give this added value if we respond to the demand for certain consumers, who are increasingly there in Europe, in North America, in Canada, I will slowly tell you in other parts of the world. I'll give just one example. Today four hundred million Chinese have an average income of 20,000 euros. So this income makes a new middle class in China. Four hundred million is a continent that wants to eat differently, wants to dress differently, wants to travel differently from what he has done so far. So these markets are slowly beginning to shape other requirements. They want to know what they eat. They want to know the way they've prepared what they eat. They want to be able to trace the product to its basic component. They must know that good environmental practices have been followed in the way this product was manufactured and they ask where and how. They want to know that the production of livestock products has been done with respect for animal welfare. These therefore create an increased need for certification of these products. This high quality, which obviously has additional requirements, makes quality products, with increased added value and high certification and apparently more expensive price. That is what really needs to be done. To do this, we need investments in the field. The policy of the Green Agreement 'from farm to fork', 'from the field to the fork', is that it actually connects these circles. And what does it say? It says that I will actually fund investment in digital technology, in agri-technology, in order to improve productivity, in order to have less use of plant protection products, in order to have a lesser and more targeted use of fertilisers and more efficient, more targeted and more limited use of water. So, as an overall policy, this is actually the strategy of Greek agriculture for the next decade. This is the way forward, and these are the financial instruments - badly lying - within the framework of the common agricultural policy, which we will have in our hands to implement. It is a challenge for Greek primary production, for Greek agriculture, for Greek livestock farming and for fishing, but at the same time it is also the future and it is made precisely for our own standards and production capacities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too. With Mr. Voridis quietly, with Mr. Bouquet noisy noise. I lived that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, why do you say that? I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u241	Don't get me wrong. I just wanted to say that you raised dust and you did well. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u243	Wait a minute, Mr. Apostle. Let me explain. You have the right to speak five minutes because you are a former Minister, but only for your actions, that is, for Laconia and feta. But I shall also give the floor to the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Voridis' slip was unprecedented. From the Step of the House, a minister to distort the statements, the speech of former Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, even saying he lied. Mr. Voridis, we've learned you now. You are the ones who constantly, when you are given a chance, repeat your lies. In particular, will I tell you that you were not the ones who defended and insisted on the matter of the price of milk? Didn't you say that 'I guarantee you that the prices will rise'?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u245	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u246	Didn't you say all over the world, particularly in the run-up to governance, that you would support the prices of these products? You said that! And the former Prime Minister repeated what you said. You lied, and that's what he wanted to point out with his intervention. We, therefore, of course, will try - and this has already been done when we were government - to support this product, olive oil. You know - and I know - how great the difficulties are in accepting such requests. That does not mean, however, that we are stopping there and not trying, let alone when there is budgetary capacity today to cover a loss that is indeed in many areas. I would therefore ask you, particularly on the subject of your phrase, that the President of SYRIZA has lied, to withdraw it and not to use it, especially in this area where we must all respect it. And I come to the other theme that has to do with the interprofessional feta. Look, I keep stressing the issue of representativeness. You cannot understand whether we have so little representations - there must be a consensus, a synergy - ultimately what is being done is the breakdown, the dissolution of the space. So, you don't understand what I told you? Who will take this position on the board, whether we are going to be here, whether we are going to be there, are not solutions, let alone when they are not applied anywhere. I didn't deal with the interprofessional feta now. I have been constantly meeting for two and a half years to resolve this issue, of course, by raising the question that there must be collective synergy in this area, otherwise we will have dissolutionary results and results. And I come to the part concerning the CAP. Minister, we left you not just a job, we left you alliances, we left you with the Presidency's decisions. As far as the part of immediate full convergence is concerned, there have been too many discussions. We have reached the point on a Council, even threatening veto, so that the word 'full' can disappear when it comes to convergence. And of course, as far as the CAP's resources are concerned, you know that we have created statements and alliances which have reached a majority. From that point on, when I insist that you run, I insist that there are loose ends and that it is unlikely in a month or a half - no one knows - that the European Commission and us are still unresolved. I would like - by closing my speech - to say that it is unacceptable, Minister, what you have done against the President of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor, and then the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I would like to follow up your remark, which I know has been a good one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u249	Please, if you get misunderstood, I apologize through my heart. I said it so I could lighten it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u250	No, you don't have to. It has therefore also been demonstrated by today's debate that opposition parties do not have positions on the country's rural development, and that is why there have been a number of turbulences and a number of points, as has been said on the Acheloos issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u251	I get it, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u252	However, as has been demonstrated by the Minister's position - I believe my own - that the New Democracy Government has an integrated programme for the rural development of the country and at the level of the Common Agricultural Policy, but also at the level of tackling the problems that we have inherited from the improvement plans, or from the overtaxation of the agricultural world, and so on. And in any case accumulated years' problems cannot be solved in seven months. However, everyone in this Chamber understood that a serious and systematic effort is being made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u254	I don't understand, Mr. Apostleu, what you're saying. That Mr. Tsipras didn't say that? It's a simple question. And I'm lying when I say he said it? Because I, as you know, tell you the source of my knowledge. Witness, he says, who is not an eyewitness and is not a selfish person - I was here, I was not in Mr Tsipras' speech - he has to name the source of his knowledge. So I say to you that she is a reporter from the Molas, who now sends me the sound. So I ask you: did Mr. Tsipras say so or did he not say that? I don't claim Mr. Tsipras lied to him. I claim that someone wrongly informed him - obviously someone who handles the agricultural issues on the SYRIZA - and he did not see what he had to see, when they told him to say that and said it manually and without checking what his colleagues told him. So I told you: 'Why do you say such things to the President of SYRIZA to say, which they expose him?' And you're telling me that I have to withdraw and not him? He said what is inaccurate. And he said it - let me, because there is a political challenge here - playing with the anguish of the olive growers. So he did very badly by claiming that your government had guaranteed millions of people from the European Commission...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u255	100 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u256	I don't know that for 100 million, Mr. Kelles says. I don't know, Mr. Kelles says so. I don't know, I don't say it, Mr. Kelles says it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u257	And she forsakes you where you took the money!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u258	Where did I go the 100 million, like this. So here Mr. Tsipras says something that is obviously untrue. You know he's untrue because you've handled it. Because otherwise you have an easy answer to give me and I stop to give it to me: 'Of course, I have not found 100, but I have found 10 and it is there'. Can you tell me that? That's easy. 'Yes, I can tell you, Mr Voridis, you do not know what is happening to you, there is the 10 million.' So, because you can't tell me that, because you know, and because I know, and because we all know, I'm saying there's no need for Mr. Tsipras to say such things. The second is that I didn't say you didn't try to fix the interprofessional. I said you tried too hard and said you failed, that's what I said. And you tried and failed. And you tried four and a half years and failed four and a half years. And I tried six months and I got there in six months! That's what I said. It's simple. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you tell me now, "Yes, but because you reduced the number." That is what you say to me, that I abrogated your decision, that it was adopted in the expirement. To understand how much you were concerned with the interprofessional issue, four and a half years you made a ministerial decision and made it ten days before the elections. The SYRIZA government, Mr. Apostle, Mr. Arachovitis, not you. But you too - because you asked me the question of what you did - you did not make a decision, you left it for the next one. You have reached a rate which, in fact, did not allow for the establishment of the interprofessional. I made a different choice, and the interprofessional one was made. And I'm going to make you a prediction of this. There is a regulation that all of them should increase within five years. Incidentally - listen to something - the participation of producers in the interprofessional feta, in the form of the representation that they now receive, will exceed 40%, not 15% that I have put up, will exceed 40%. It's gonna be over 35% you guys put in. Only that had to be the case, Mr. Apostleu. Do you know why? In order to get everyone together, to discuss and to know that the process will proceed, because there has been a political will that has allowed this to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u259	And that's it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, you will give me the floor later to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u261	No, Mr. Apostle. The Minister will then have to answer again. It's a question of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u262	So, I say again, on the subject of the CAP, to look, Mr Apostle, at the big ones. What are the big issues in the CAP? We agree on matters to which we agree. Because you too agree - as I understand it - that the CAP budget should not be reduced, and I agree that the CAP budget should not be reduced, and you agree that further external convergence should not be made, and I agree that further external convergence should not be made. However, if you tell me what activities and what actions we have been taking in this direction, in December 2019, common non-clause with Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Cyprus, with regard to external convergence, which is in favour of stopping any further convergence. On 27-9-2019 noon paper, he also contended, which argued that expenditure should be increased to 1.3% instead of the 1.11% proposed by the committee. On 14-10-2019 a joint statement by the Ministers for Agriculture of Austria, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, France, Hungary, Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, which calls for the CAP budget to be maintained at the present level. On 18 July 2019, at the first council I went to, we have a statement, which started on 31 May 2019, on your day, which I continued with, with which Spain, Finland, France, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, take a position on the budget increase. So what more do you want than that, which is Greece's position in every Council of Ministers? Greece is present and is fighting with any battle it can fight. If you have better ideas in this regard, because precisely strategically we agree, with great pleasure to discuss them another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I would ask you to speak because this is a very serious matter. The Minister comes and tells us that a journalist...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Apostle, the question is the Change Movement. If you dialogue, we'll never end. Do you know how much you have to tell Mr. Voridis? I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u266	That is why I insist that the Minister's behaviour was wrong and unacceptable. About the feta, Minister,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u267	So here's where you're answering. Mr. Apostle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u268	...on the subject of representativeness, you corrected it to put...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Apostle, respect the procedure. You don't have the floor. Whatever it was you said. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on number 6/5/12-12-2019 in the topical and urgent debate on the subject: 'The primary sector is at a dead end - direct intervention is needed for its development'. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-03-S1-commons.u270	With the agreement of the House at 21.34 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 4 February 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
