ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 22-1-2020, the minutes of its PRACTICAL PRACLES sessions of Wednesday, 22 January 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 24 January 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 395/20-1-2020 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct integration into a financial programme on Hania - Oxlinthos - Kymi Beach, Evia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 392/20-1-2020 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In the red clinic of the Panarcadian Hospital - closes the Children's Surgery Department". 3. The Question No 399/21-1-2020 by MP Evia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Georgios Marinos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Unforeseen continuation of the operation of LARCO”, safeguarding all jobs, workers' rights and necessary hygiene and security measures.” 4. The Question No 389/17-1-2020 by the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group and MP Larissa Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "The operation of illegal NGOs in Greece". 5. The Question No 403/21-1-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Addressing the smog through the "drug" of the heating allowance". B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 396/20-1-2020 by MP Rethymno of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the process of completing psychiatric reform". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 401/21-1-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Previous delays in disciplinary procedures relating to the Zak Kostopoulos case". 3. The Question No 410/21-1-2020 by Congressman Piracy of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Tryphona Alexiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Definition of the Director-General for Financial Crime Body". 4. The Question No 402/21-1-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Direct termination of contracts for the extraction of hydrocarbons following the Commission’s findings of “Nature 2000”. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2369/4-12-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To pay directly to the recycling workers and reopen the Materials Selection and Recycling Centre (CIDA) of Heraklion Crete". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that all planned topical questions we have for today will be discussed. We will start the discussion with the third under number 398/21-1-2020, a top-level question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Complete workers in the operation “EUROPEPARIAN NAMARIA VARVARESOS S.A.”. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the workers of the company "EUROPEAN NICKIA VARVESOS S.A." in Naoussa Imathia for a long time have been experiencing problems with the payment of their employees. Payroll delays have been a given given year and a half. In this period, the two hundred five employees in the company have been unpaid for two and a half months. Along with their union, workers have made several contributions to start paying, as well as a regular salary return. In fact, their general assembly decided and claimed the fixed payment every 22 and 7 months, as provided for in the company's rules of procedure, as well as the performance of the entire Christmas gift and not partially. Employees, because of this situation, are now unable to meet the obligations of everyday life, the needs of their own and their own children. According to this, you ask, Mr Minister: what immediate measures will the Government take to pay the accrued, to pay regularly, to ensure the work rights and jobs of workers in the operation "EUROPEAN NARVERIA S.A."? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Member for the opportunity to respond to an issue that really concerns some workers and what I will say is confirmed by the delay in paying wages, but at the same time also confirms the stable, clean and decisive nature of the top mission of the Ministry of Labour, which is to guarantee labour rights and respect for labour law. Mr President, I now come to the essence of the issue that concerns us, which you are asking me about. Indeed, there was a matter of paying the employees of the company "EUROPEAN NICKIA VARVARESOS S.A.", but the Ministry of Labour was immediately and effectively selected for the difference in reconciliation. According to information from the relevant Department of Labour Inspection, two audits were carried out on 15-32019 and on 10-9-2019 in the company concerned for a delay in payment of accrued remuneration. The first audit concerned accrued earnings of January and February 2019, the second on-the-job earnings of July and August 2019. On the basis of these checks, the company paid the previous debts, but continued to delay the payment of the accrued remuneration to its staff. For this reason, on 10-10-2019 and on 13-11-2019 two labour disputes were made with representatives of the Operational Association of Workers in the "EUROPEAN NICKIA VARVARESOS S.A." and with the manager of the company, who did not commit to the repayment date. Subsequently, the Imathia TEC, the local labour inspectorate, submitted to the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office a report on the non-payment to employees of accrued earnings of September and October 2019. On 2-12-2019 our local agency sent a document to the company asking it to produce the monthly clearing notes of the monthly payroll November 2019 and the corresponding bank depository. On 5-12-2019, the company submitted to the Imathia Télécom the information requested, from which a debt was incurred to the employees of EUR 166,158,05. Subsequently, on 10-12-2019, our agency submitted a press report to the Proceedings of Proceedings in Berlin on the non-payment to employees of accrued earnings in November 2019. It also follows, but I am now interrupting because of the completion of time, Mr President, and I shall reply to my dentext for the other activities of the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u5	Good. Mr. Stoltides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, these actions have been taken. However, it seems that they do not stop the nerve of an enterprise which is constantly in investment and exportable product and profitability, to implement either its commitments to the Labour Inspectorate or its obligations towards employee payroll. We must, however, mention why these interventions on the part of the state mechanism are obviously not very moved by the employer, because in recent years the company has also made collective redundancies. In other words, he took advantage of all the laws, including the previous governments, of all the anti-government laws and put them in the service of its profitability. He fired pioneer workers. He's been employed in underprivileged people. About half of them now are under individual contracts. He implemented part-time work for nine months, while he said for two months. She reduced her cuts to 16%, and while she said for a year, she permanently stopped it. Of course, dozens of workers were unable to withstand intensification and left work. At the same time, it seeks to implement the decision of the Association of Northern Greece, of employers, of special areas, which your last intervention has helped as a government with the development plan, to avoid implementation, since there are many exceptions that all of the employers need. They refuse to sign a collective agreement on the grounds that there is no 51% of the employer's register, and your Government is provokingly calling for 51% of all employees, of course with intervention by the previous government as well as by the law. You are hitting the average wage, giving all the weapons that any employer needs to crush it, lowering it down to the thresholds, and of course at your side in this process, you have the majority of the GFCM, which hits at the same time the foundations of collective labour agreements. Recently we know that government officials have also made intervention to open the financing of the company for its investment project, regardless of which funding has been substantially provided since 1980 and after the IMPs. In addition, of course, we must also refer to the gifts received by all the undertakings, by reducing the tax on dividends and insurance contributions. It is not enough and, in our view, indifference in terms of not only the interests of workers, but also of their own ability to survive, their families and their own. We say that one way is for the workers, because this state is in the hands of business groups, and their struggle must be mass, decisive. They have the power both with the local society and with the secondary body in the region, which is in class orientation and is at their side, and of course they must continue the struggle and in such a way that they remove this state from the hands of business groups and go through it in their own hands, so that their problems can be solved, definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Look, you are always causing me now, well-meaningly, to turn a talk about some workers, who really deserve their salaries, in a political debate, ideological debate, about how pay is shaped and whether there should be businesses. If, the non-sparkling, dear fellow Member, prevailed what you say, that all businesses should be stagged, that there should be no private initiative, we would be talking about total destruction, about hundreds of thousands of unemployed, and no unemployment benefits, total poverty. Because at the moment, if there is something that shapes the pay frame, wages, shapes good working conditions or tries to shape it, that is the private initiative through which wealth is created. We are completely different in the approach of things. Your approach says there is no private initiative. I've asked this before, I'll ask you again as long as you're going to put these issues to me, point to a place in the world where your own political account applies. Nowhere. Once, decades ago, it went to be implemented, it collapsed and we also saw the results. But I am going back to the matter. On 19-12-2019, therefore, something was carried out confirming the activity and what the Ministry of Labour has to do, a reconciliation meeting at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, on the basis of Article 3 of Law No3996/2011 and Article 13 of Law No 1876/1990, the presence of the mutual employee on the part of the Ministry of Labour and at the request of the worker's association at the "EUROPEAN NATIONAL NATIONALIA VARVARESOS S.A." and the management of the company. So you see that we hear the voice of the workers. The workers came, asked for what the Ministry of Labour can do, for the reconciliation process, and we did so right away at the Ministry, always looking to ensure that jobs and labour rights are safeguarded, that is, that labour legislation is respected. He personally investigated the workers' requests, while carefully examining the arguments put forward by the company in order to explain the reasons for its failure to pay its obligations to workers. Indeed, a representative of the company accepted the existence of a delay in the recruits, which amounted to about two and a half months, as you quite rightly said, and then pledged that by paying up an imminent specific project from the working capital banks, priority will be given to the repayment of the employees. In this context, the Ministry, as a reconciliation side, recommended that the company immediately pay off the delayed wages and make every effort to ensure the timely pay of the employees from now on. It noted that, if immediate repayment could not be possible, workers should be informed as soon as possible of the date on which they were paid back. Subsequently, the Ministry of Labour, as a reconciliation side, was informed by e-mail 11-1-2020 by the association of the employees of the company that the company proceeded on 31-12-2019, just as it had committed itself to meeting the Ministry of Labour, in the tripartite, in the payment and repayment of the outstanding months of September, as well as the entire month of October. At the same time, the representative of the employees of the company thanked the Ministry, in fact, for his actions and his mediation, with a view to resolving the dispute. Finally, on 13-1-2020, Imathia Labour Relations Inspectorate sent a new audit report to the company requesting the monthly clearance notes of the month's payroll of December 2019, the balances of the 2019 Christmas Gift for the period 21-12-2019 to 31-12-2019, since on 18-12-2019 part of the gift was paid from 1-5-2019 to 21-12-2019, as well as the corresponding bank deposits. In addition, on 15-1-2020, our agency submitted a new message to the Proto-Government Prosecutor's Office on the non-payment to employees of accrued earnings in December 2019 and the remaining Christmas gift 2019. So you see, Mr President - and I thank you again for the question - that the Ministry of Labour is present at the protection of labour rights and in respect of labour legislation. The employees of the Ministry of Labour are alert. Where they locate and know about such unfair behaviour, they shall be handled under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u9	We are now moving on to the third with number 391/20-1-2020, a topical question by the Prime Minister of Corfu of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The functional and organisational restructuring of the FYROM Corfu". Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your presence and the response to my question with your presence here today. My question relates to the operation of the FBI in the county of which I am elected, the Law of Corfu. The functioning of the EPC in recent years has unfortunately demonstrated its management failure, while turning all citizens, insured pensioners and workers into experimental animals. For Corfu, in a prefecture of ten thousand inhabitants, we would like nothing more, Minister, than the creation of a service with enhanced staff that can meet the needs of the population and business, but also the need for a stricter organizational plan for benefits and services, so that citizens and workers can be served. Unfortunately, however, instead of this, an unacceptable situation prevails. With the integration of the funds and the implementation of the EBKA and the relevant establishment plan, which is not fully implemented until the end of the year, a county with a large economic activity and a huge insurance size is the only seat of a region exempted from the Regional Insurance Centre (PEKA) by subordinate it to the Regional Insurance Centre of Epirus and, at the same time, subjugated by the Regional Coordination and Support Agency (PYS) to the Local Directorate of EBKA, equating the Law of Corfu with Igoumenitsa, Arta and other towns. This sends to Ioannina for payment each Corfu, each islander, who wishes to pay his VCU in cash. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, with L.4387/2016, Minister, from 1-1-2017 to EKKA has been transferred and is subject to the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts, the CRL, with financial and accounting autonomy, with the same organisational structure and staff. The CRL is supervised by the Governor of EKA and here Corfu is an originality, as it falls under the Regional Directorate of CEAO Epirus of Western Macedonia and Corfu, while the operation of a decentralised CEAO department in the city, as is the case for Kozani, for Volos, for Karditsa, for Kalamata, is not even foreseen, how much more so when it proves 60% -70% of the CEAO activity in Ioannina it is about economic activity in Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Biagi, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude with the questions, Mr President. For these reasons, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you what is the plan for the structure and functioning of the ECA? Is the Ministry prepared to adjust the existing planning to strengthen the structure in Corfu with the necessary staff and logistics infrastructure? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the honourable Member, Mr Biagi, for his sensitivity in raising an issue concerning the local single social security institution, as it exists to date. And I also thank him for the recognition that the government is present, something that never existed in the past. We have had too many years to see in every timely question, the government - not only myself, Mr Colleague, the entire government, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Justice - is present at these days to answer current questions. We are making this self-evident, namely our obligation under the parliamentary procedure, which, unfortunately, has been denied for four and a half years. We did not see ministers coming to answer timely questions, unfortunately. We now restored the parliamentary procedure, the right, that is to say, by honouring our parliamentary role and the parliamentary procedure, to do what had to be done. So I'm actually going to the point of answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u15	You're a little too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u16	Don't worry, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague. You were absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u17	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u18	I wasn't absent from the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Giannoulis, now what do you do with Mr. Biagi's question? When your question is discussed, say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u20	But it's not about the question. Four and a half years wasn't this House working and it's working now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u21	You rarely saw, we have to say it now. After you open a word to me, we'll open it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u22	Easy, let's go down. Good morning, you're in the middle of a fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u23	We must therefore say that in these benches, there were no SYRIZA ministers answering. You've been gone, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague. The MPs of the Change Movement and we underneath as Opposition were deprived of this possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u24	Minister, please come in response to Mr. Biagi. Don't fall into the trap.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u25	It's not a trap. I am speaking with Mr Biagi, who I am speaking about, because he has recognised - to his credit - the Change Movement's deprivation of this deprivation that the Change Movement had and we as a New Democracy, four and a half years, to see the Ministers here answer. So I'm going to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u26	We weren't from the country. Because you're in your world...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Giannoulis, the third time I'll call you in class!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u28	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u29	I'll read to you, Mr. Biagi, what the agency says about Corfu. And I'll tell you in my denture, in the little time I have because time has run out, what we're thinking of doing. EVKA operates from 1-1-2017 on the basis of the transitional establishment plan, as defined by L.4387/2016 and L.4445/2016. The final organogram, as provided for in accordance with d.o.b. 8/2019, which regulates the organisational functioning of EVA, will gradually be completed, Article 87 of the d.o.b. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is reversed, however, on the basis of the new information I will give you. To date, most of the Regional Audit Centres for Insurance have been set up, as you say, and all the Regional Coordination and Support Services, the so-called PSY. In particular, Corfu: The III Department of Insurance Control of PEKA Epirus and Corfu, in Corfu, the local branch of Rentals Corfu, the Regional Department of Non-Employees of Corfu, the Regional Department of Engineering and Workshops of Public Works of Corfu, with the start of operation of the local management based in Corfu, provided for by Article 34 of B.D.8/2019 with the following organisational structure: First, Department of Administrative and Information Citizens, Department of Insurance, Department of Taxation, Department of Pensions and Department of Provisions. All citizens will have the possibility - which is questioned - of serving at a point, regardless of which former social security institution they come from. With regard to the exemption of Corfu from the PICs, in accordance with Article 14 of the AD8/2019, ten PICs are to be set up throughout the territory. The operational objectives of the AACC shall concern the realisation of substantial on-the-spot regular, exceptional and specific controls for the application of insurance legislation and the allocation of insurance contributions to the detriment of insured employers and businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u30	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Mr. President. Corfu has not been excluded under the existing law, as it provides for the operation of the III Department of Insurance Control of PEKA Epirus and Corfu in the city of Corfu. And I shall refer to my dentistry more specifically about the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u32	Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u33	Minister, with all due respect to your opinion, I believe that all the information I have given you is in fact correct, which you have also verified. My concern, if you wish, which I am trying to convey, is nothing but the concern of the people of my county, that at some point decisions by the central state must be made on the basis of some logic, whether - if you like - the population or economic criteria, on the basis of always reason, which can give answers to the problems and concerns of the citizens. I have brought you a series of problems, in relation to what is provided for in the organogram of EFKA, to show you that all new services have been decided to move outside the law of Corfu, in Ioannina, without any logic behind this. And in particular, I told you that my Corfu fellow citizens will be able to make payments from some obligations they have in debt and they will have to make these payments in Ioannina. There is a complete - if you like - deforestation of Corfu's services, something that characterises the policies of all governments and I am not talking about the government, neither today nor yesterday. I am addressing you, however, by considering and saying that it is a new logic that you want to run this country, this place, and I tell you that the data we like Corfu, I, in fact, come to you today. It is if your Government is determined to command and set up the organization in such a way, whether on the basis of population criteria you want, on economic criteria, on business criteria you want, but always on certain criteria and not on some subjective crises of some ministers or secretaries or any other state officials. So my agony through this question, and that if you want to keep it alone, is this: If in future at least there will be such a service in Corfu, which will not have today's data and today's data - if you like - repetitions and which will be able to respond to the wishes of its citizens, in the interests of the businessmen of Corfu. This is the thing to do, giving all the respect that corresponds to the Corfu citizen, the Corfu taxpayer. I'm not talking localistics. I tell you all your crises and all your choices to be made either by populations or by economic or business criteria. We cannot, on the one hand, talk about Corfu, Corfu of culture, Corfu of tourism, Corfu of development and, on the other hand, deviate the whole island from all the services. The whole of Corfu's services have been dismantled - and this question, of course, we are talking about the ECA - from all the agencies. The journey Corfu - Igoumenitsa has become, Minister, to be Koliatsos - Patisia, it is something that has escaped from all logic and concerns, if you like, health issues, but we will not discuss this here. It is about whether you want your sensitivity alone - and I have no reason to question it - the sensitivity with which you want to design and build tomorrow's Greece. In this Greece of tomorrow, therefore, Corfu must actually be dealt with with by certain criteria. Put whatever you wish through your Government and through your Ministry, there are criteria. I have brought you a specific body of EFKA, Minister of State, KEO, which operates in Ioannina and 70% of its activity is related to Corfu's economic activity. So this service was correctly wanted by previous prisoners to put it in Ioannina. It has nothing to do with localization. It is only about how the businessman and the citizen of Corfu will be better served. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Biagi, it's not only your agony, but also your sensitivity and love for your country, and you do well, because this is your role as a parliamentarian of Corfu on behalf of the Change Movement. I want to tell you that we ministers and all of us have a geographical reference, an area in which we are elected. No one ever said all things were perfect. Today I am called upon to place myself against you in an organisational situation of the insurance institution called EASA, as formulated by the previous government. However, I do not want to level everything out, nor do I want to cancel any attempts or good initiatives that have been made, whether they have failed to achieve their final goal. Because, in fact, the ECA was set up with Law No.4367/16. Unfortunately, while the attempt was to make an organisational reconstruction and unification of the forces of the previous insurance funds, it was not done in the right way. It was done in a rough, fast, hasty way and many results in the organisational function of EVKA are seen through the chaotic state of the alalum, which is not only in Corfu, but is diffuse everywhere. Secondly, with regard to the Insurance Catch Centre, I would like to say that this service offers the greatest. It was set up in 2013 under cries and reactions and through the House. This Insurance Contribution Centre ensures approximately EUR 1.5 billion to 2 billion in the insurance funds through its operation, because before the creation of the CRL, which many people said was to burn it up to they promised to abolish the next day, the debts to the insurance funds were to be raised in due course. He was paying whoever he wanted, what he wanted when he wanted. We have organised in 2013-2014 for the first time through the CEAO, the excellent officials, who are self-determined, the way in which they receive due debts, and this has strengthened our funds. As far as EVA is concerned, I would like to inform you that we are on the eve of the deposit of the new insurance bill, a major insurance reform and a cut-off. Among the issues relating to the insurance system itself, we are also making a structural, structural change across the whole system that concerns the organisation of the old ECA, which is now becoming an e-ECA. From the Single Social Security Agency we create the e-ECA, the digital, electronic National Social Security Agency. The aim and effort, Mr Biage, is to digitise the whole system and, at a depth of two-year-old or more, to all transactions for which you are complaining today that there is no need for a personal presence of natural persons, but that they should be made digitalally and electronically, as is the digital pension which is the great vulnerability of decades in our country. On this basis, we also change the n.e.c.8/2019 because the new e-ECA incorporates the latter and the last two remaining insurers, the one-off and the AS. Be careful, there is administrative and organisational integration, because some go to distort it. So this umbrella of the new e-ECA will enter with huge economies of scale, human resources from other services will strengthen the services of e-ECA and all this will be a new organisational chart - which is already in the law that we are bringing to Parliament - which I hope and hope will meet the expectations and good intentions we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u36	We're done with Mr. Brutsi. Now it was normal to discuss two questions to which the Minister for Justice Mr Tsiaras, who is present, would answer. Because of the extraordinary meeting at Mr. Brutsi's Ministry, we are going to make a change, because it must be at the meeting and Mrs. Michailidou. I apologise to the two colleagues who have questions to Mr Chiara. Mr. Giannoulis is fortunately here, so it can be done. If the other two colleagues who have a question to the Minister are not here because they have been notified at the last minute, we will come back to Mr Chiara. So we move to the first with number 409/21-1-2020, a timely question by SYRIZA MP Mr. Christos Giannoulis, on the subject: “Stop running the hospitality of children and adolescents at risk of “THITIS of ARSIS” in Oreokastro Thessaloniki”. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I have to say that the outgoing Minister, Mr Brutsi, managed to make us the mood, because I noted two of the newest and truly interesting jokes of political topicality. He said that "we hear the voice of the workers at the Ministry of Labour and we see the good intentions". I must say that we have had such a joke for a long time when it says that they are listening to the voice of the workers with thousands of redundancies, with overtime being no longer even a violation of labour law and other things that are happening in the 'first time' of Mr Mitsotakis. On the subject now. Mrs Michaelides, yesterday the Greek society recognised as an important step the election of a woman to the highest state post in the position of President of the Republic. You know, one of the qualities that has not been equated to women is the quality of care, maternity, protection, sensitivity for what is most important on this planet, the child. In the case of the centre of abused children "THE HOUSE OF ARSIS" that's what we're talking about. It is the issue that there is a risk that the only structure will be closed in northern Greece, hosting children who have been abused. It is the only structure that has been integrated into a standard network for the reception of children, adolescents at risk, within forty-eight hours of pan-Hellenic. And all this because, Mrs. Michalidou? To prevent you - I will say more in my dentistry -, yes, there have also been failures from the previous government. To prevent you, because the most important thing is to solve the issue and not to develop a political confrontation, at the moment it takes 90,000 to 100,000 to close the holes in the previous year of 2019 and get the budget into rails in 2020, so that children, boys up to 12 years old and girls up to eighteen years old, who have suffered the most barbaric ones in humanity, child abuse, can be integrated into a structure that does not host them to sleep or feed them, but to bring them back from a world that breaks down souls and bodies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This reintroduction is not only made by subjecting one of the many institutions that only care for survival. We are talking here about restoring the soul and life of some children. Of the three hundred children who have accepted the services of "ARSIS" too much have been reconnected with their families and have surpassed something that, if someone does not live in the area of "ARSIS", in Oreokastro, he will not understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u38	Get to the question and fill in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u39	I would like to ask you, before we go to dentistry, to overcome possible failures in the past and to see immediately what happens in the future. It's your commitment, too, that you gave when you visited the foundation. We are talking about money, but we are actually talking about the lives of children who have been abused, and that is where we should not be in Mr Brutsi's political model.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u40	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Giannoulis. Thank you, Mr President. I would like to express our pleasure at the support and the view of the Officerial Representation yesterday, as you quite rightly said, and in the vote in favour of our proposal for Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou for the President of the Republic. In this matter and in your question, the hostel within the Oreokastro of "ARSIS" is an issue that has dealt with both my office and all the services of the Ministry. Before entering the essence of your question, I would like to give before the National Representation a brief background to the operation of the 'ARSIS abused children' hostel. This temporary accommodation structure has therefore been operating since 2007. From 2007 to 2017 this structure began with a budget of 110,000 euros and reached 175,000 euros. From 2007 to 2017, this structure, except for 2009 and 2011, operated through programming contracts. Since 2017 in 2019, as you rightly said and said to me, it was the SYRIZA Government that decided to stop the programming contracts for this structure - this structure, for its own reasons, being NLR, ASE as a legal basis, decided from EUR 175,000, which was its annual operating cost, on the basis of the programme, to go to 200,000 in 2018 and since the previous administration - yours - had told her that it would reduce funding and stop the programming, "ARSIS" decided to increase the budget from EUR 175,000 to EUR 200,000 and this year to EUR 265,000. Irrespective of the above, the letters which have been sent to us about the financial difficulties of this structure have been problematic from the outset. That is why I - as you probably know - visited this structure before Christmas. What's the ministry doing? It supervises, operates and finances all legal entities governed by public law. In the case of private law, in addition, where their financial resources are not sufficient, they come and decide, whether through a region or directly, and provide resources. So, through the region, around EUR 31 000 have been approved. We have more than doubled that amount. We have recommended to the region that EUR 31,000 be made, in fact, 81,785 and, furthermore, we have given more money through the lottery. At our meeting with "ARSIS" ten days ago, I was informed by representatives of the structure itself that they had been informed by the previous political leadership that the financial support of the hostel would be reduced. For our part, therefore, we asked for financial information, which came to the Ministry just the day before yesterday. We had deadline on the 20th. Therefore, this has not been fully processed, and it is not possible today for a responsible and accurate answer to our actions, in which we will only make the best interest of our host children. Here - and I will close here - I would like to point out that there is not only the structure of the 'ARSIS' for abused children in the wider urban framework of Thessaloniki. There is the "PARAFEE OF IRRYA", there are the "SOS PARENTIAL COUNTRIES", there is the "ELLENIC LAND" in Filros, and there is also the "MELISSA". So it's not the only structure in my dentistry, and I'd like to develop what we're thinking about doing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u43	Honestly, I will be forced to correct you. For abused children within the protection network that exists and the care of the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors of Thessaloniki is only “THE SITIS of ARSIS”. As regards what you described, "PAPAFEIO" is a church orphanage, "MELISA" is an institution that has been operating for many years for young girls, but not for abused children. Unfortunately - and the Ministry of Justice also certifies this - the only structure for abused children, boys up to 12 years old and girls up to eighteen years old is "APPSIS". From there you admitted - and I accept - that there have been some failures in relation to the past. We are not now discussing the technical or technological management of the matter. We are talking about being at a political dilemma, whether the Greek state will financially support the survival of a truly shocking structure for humanity and social welfare in Greece. What does that mean? You have financial instruments. If it is paradoxical - and let me say it - the search for economic data, remember that this is an organisation, the organization of 'ARSIS', with some seven hundred staff across Greece, with parallel structures, which are a model of operation, transparency and good management. To ask for a financial account now to a body that does not ask for 100% of its funding from the Greek state, I do not understand it. It asks for a part, because it covers all the expenditure under other initiatives. They've proved it, Mrs. Michalidou. Anyone standing next to these people has seen it and understood it from the operation of the institution. I am therefore going to insist on the practical dimension that it has, because that is where the sensitivity and completeness of each of us will appear to hold a public post. It is absolutely necessary to finance also through the Region of Central Macedonia, which is governed by a particular discretion to spend or to spend money on literacy projects or windows initiatives. Together with the region and the Ministry of Labour can finance this 90 to 100 thousand euro gap, but much more programmed in 2020 and 2021, so as to avoid the paddock. That's the danger, Mrs. Michalidou. It's not about paying responsibilities, who did something less or more. And in order to avoid this danger, you have the tools, you too have the opportunity to do so, and the Region of Central Macedonia, as long as you want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u44	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Giannoulis. You're right, it's about wanting and we all want it together. Since they did not want those who were before us, we are called upon to see whether we can implement this void. Your position was inaccurate. The structures that I mentioned and repeated, and you are able to accept abused children. All four of them. As far as ‘ARCIS’ is concerned, it is an AMC which performs a very substantial purpose and a very good and proper task. I would like to stress here that the annual budget for the "ARSIS" is EUR 23 million, so it asks the Ministry for exclusive the EUR 265,000 to operate only at the expense of the ministry. We asked them if, of the EUR 23 million in its budget, they cannot find any resource for this guesthouse. They said no, we're dealing with the matter. The question, however, is whether the Ministry is required to meet the financial needs of a particular private body, which, if not the obligation, is able to search for funds beyond State funding. And we say, he's done very well, finding 23 million euros at the 265 he's asking for this year. In other words, the question arises of equal treatment for all the prosperous actors in the field, as regards access to public money. In any case, following the examination of the data sent to us by "APPRIS" two days ago, the best possible solution will be explored for the children who are hosted in the hostel, because neither of us - nor you, who have inactivated, nor we now - do we want what you said, do not want the lock. Obviously, and we do not want to close a structure of child protection, and this cannot be seen as a one-way road, especially when it operates under the responsibility of an NGO, an AMC in fact, with a high annual budget. We will therefore explore the possibility of covering some of the costs, these 265, compared with the 200, which he was asking for this year, but also which other relevant bodies can operate the structure if the ongoing efforts are not going on. This will not, after all, be the result of a budgetary coercive, but it is dependent on the legal status of non-governmental organisations or associations itself, for which state funding only comes as an adjunct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u46	Next is the fourth question (No. 404/21-01-2020). First question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Institutional allowance and social income of solidarity". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, this is a timely matter, as already since the end of December 2016, Mr Bardakis, who is an active citizen and has set up a group of self-organisation of AIFMs to claim their self-evident rights online, has tabled questions to all relevant bodies, but ultimately to the Citizens' Counselor. The answer came after too many years, at the end of November 2019. What's it about? It is about the extra-institutional allowance that people with disabilities receive. The problem here is that this allowance is calculated by the services at once as an allowance and sometimes an income. The problem here is that there has never been a precise, interpretative circular, clarifying what ultimately applies to the extra-institutional allowance from the Ministry of Labour. There was a reply from the Secretary-General of Social Solidarity that it is not counted on income, as it is clearly a bonus, but this has not reached the services, which continue and at best interpret this extra-institutional allowance and sometimes include it in income and sometimes not. And that is very important because, if it is included in income, these people are not entitled to social incomes of solidarity. The difference is huge. Please, I would like your commitment that immediately this interpretative circular will come out, it will be cleared up and this four-year, almost, suffering of the citizens will stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Ms Maria - Eleni Soukoulis - Viliali calls for a short-day absence abroad from 30-1-2020 to 2-2-2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u49	The House therefore approved the requested permission. In addition, Mrs Catherine Notopoulou calls for a short-day absence from abroad from 23-1-2020 to 28-1-2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u50	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, Mr Charalambos Athanasios asks for a short-day absence from abroad from 29-12020 to 30-1-2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u51	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I honestly assure you that there is no need for concern. But before that I start my response, noting that the Fighting Poverty Department of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as responsible for the minimum guaranteed income or for the social solidarity allowance, is very diligent, as I have seen, in terms of the issues of proper implementation by the social services of the municipalities, by the community centres, by the JEPs, if you like, of the regulatory and legislative framework governing its provision. Moreover, the direction I myself have given to all the services I am supervising is to answer the questions directly and to clarify any ambiguities and any misunderstandings about the terms and conditions for granting any aid - one of them is the minimum guaranteed income - so that, as you quite rightly said, the beneficiaries are not troubled. On your question specifically: In November 2019, Mr George Stamatis, the Secretary-General for the Fight against Poverty of the Ministry, in reply to a letter from the Citizens' Co-rapporteur - and I am glad you said that after many years this has been done - he confirmed that all disability benefits and extra-institutional allowances are not counted as income in the application for the minimum guaranteed income. The above reply from my Secretary-General obviously reflects the views of the Directorate-General for Combating Poverty, since it has come up following its suggestion as having the competence to implement this policy and send relevant directions to the municipalities, to the community centres, to the JEPs and so on, when it is necessary, as I have just said. There is therefore a lack of clarification in the Circular, as it appears that the services already exercise their powers, hence informing the Secretary-General, who replied to the Citizen's Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u53	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I shall submit the two documents in the Minutes for information to colleagues: the request by the Citizens' Counsellor, and the reply by the Secretary-General. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The problem, Madam Secretary, is that unfortunately citizens' complaints show that the problem continues. The services may have informed the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General of making this reply to the Citizen's Counsel, as you said, with a huge delay, but this has not reached the services. Citizens still need to claim self-evident. You know, it's not enough for the citizen to go with the Secretary-General's answer to the Citizen's Counselor. It's not a service responsibility either. It needs an intra-service circular, as well as a lot of other issues that may be decided here, but when the citizen goes to the service to say to him: 'The circular has not come to me'. That's the way it is. It's not complicated what I'm asking for. Once there is a political position that yes, it is right and fair that this request should simply be contacted with all the relevant services. That's what we're asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u55	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. You're right, Mr. Arseny. It is not possible to ask and discuss the obvious. My services assured me that it's completely clean. Nevertheless, we will look very specifically at the requests and objections you are going to make, we will monitor them and if we see that there is ambiguity on our part and there is indeed no follow-up to the interpretation of the regulation by some agencies, then we will put forward a clarification, as you said, in circulars, which will clarify what you said, quite self-evidently: that income is not taken into account for the minimum guaranteed income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u57	Next is the fourth with number 406/21-1-2020, a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Addressing the problems of the Sikaridian Foundation". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The Sikaryidio Foundation has been offering its services since 1939 to children with disabilities. Today, however, it is going through a difficult situation. It continues to work thanks to workers' contributions and there needs to be initiatives. There is a accumulation of obligations and a lack of service, while not all the possibilities that the institution has, which can triple and the number of disabled children being trained, are exploited. The management of the institution, as you know, is determined by the respective government. Thus, this institution is not just a supervised institution, it is not NGO in the classic sense. Since tackling economic and administrative problems is urgent, in order not to stop functioning and, as I have said, to further develop its activity, I would like to know your intentions in terms of dealing with the financial viability of the institution, ensuring that it operates uninterruptedly and in developing its activities. And, of course, let us know, if you can, when you intend to appoint a new administration, if you intend, or if you will express your confidence in the existing one, in order to get insecurity out of the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of forty-four students and students and three of their educational companions from the Psychic High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Michailidou, you have the floor for your prototype. If you can, be short.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglou, the problems of the Sikarian Foundation have been very concerned with us since the early days of taking up our duties. In particular, the institution - you know that well - has a debt of over 500,000 euros in tax and insurance funds. The financial consolidation of the institution, of a historic institution, of an institution that really has a great deal to offer to creative employment for children with disabilities, is a complex issue, which, in our view, cannot be dealt with only on accounting terms. It needs to be seen as much in the light of its evaluation - which has a great deal of scope as you have said - and its adaptation to the current needs of the welfare sector. In any case, in order to address the short-term problems of Sikaryideio, I signed the decision to grant an exceptional grant of EUR 348 000 in order to give the advance and to incorporate Sikaryidio into the hundred and twenty instalments. This exceptional financial assistance enabled this to be paid in order to include the institution's debts into the public and in insurance bodies in this arrangement. But now, plus that, we gave EUR 100,000 to a regular grant for 2019. The aim of the Ministry is not to deal with the institution’s difficulties or simply to cover its financial exposures. Our objective - as you have said - is to ensure the long-term viability of Sikaryideios, both through its transparent economic operation and through the use of its infrastructure, its property and its enrichment. In this direction we are considering the development of its real estate, the development of cooperation with academic bodies, the possibilities of cooperation with the Municipality of Amarousi on the creation of a CID - AEOE there, as well as the strengthening of cooperation with the Ministry of Education for the Integration of the Foundation as a certified structure in the network of mentally disabled people. At the moment the Foundation's laboratories are failing, precisely because of these financial problems. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the new administration will be immediately designated. And I think you know well that it's very difficult to define the administration and part of it is all the financial burden the institution bears. We are looking at a more flexible administrative structure, with an administrative board that will basically have a supervisory role and the director or director of the institution to bear responsibility for the current management. We also have the possibility of reintroducing the President or director or managers' exemption from personal liability for the debts of the institution, since, of course, there is no fraudulent management, since this very burdensome treaty is inhibiting the taking over of such responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u61	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have recognised the importance of the work that has been done for years, and especially you know, as it turns out, the great potential of this institution and its own, but also in cooperation with other bodies, if the large real estate infrastructure that exists is exploited. You have already referred to a possible cooperation with the Amarousi Municipality, obviously through programme agreements and other institutional tools available to the Ministry of Labour, especially in the welfare sector. Today, however, I would like to make it clear more clearly about economic sustainability. There is an institutional framework since 2014, which concerns the resolution of legal persons under private law - purely private law, which is not appointed by the state - under which resolution was made in an institution, an application was made for another. I would like to say that this process provides for a sustainability and development study, an undertaking from the state and an institution's commitments, to move in this direction. It is essentially a memorandum of cooperation, with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance, to undertake to deal with economic debts, but at the same time to implement policies in the direction that the Foundation has, of course, and also to add to the direction that the Ministry will take. I would therefore like you to consider the possibility of entering into this economic consolidation plan. I cannot tell you exactly the law - it is 2014 - and I am not in a position to tell you whether it has been amended and in what direction from the subsequent governments. But there is, and I think that's how you should move. As far as the issue of administration is concerned, I would like to say that once the government has appointed itself, this gives the institution a dual character. As I said, it is private law, but it is not a non-governmental organisation, since the government appoints the administration. So we are dealing with a dual character, which means that the government that appoints the administration is also responsible for this reason alone. So you should see the definition of the new administration or, in any case, the renewal of the mandate or what you are judging. And, of course, it is right that what you said, the board of directors should not have liability for criminal or other debts, but also that the administration should be able, by decision of the board of directors, to authorize the director and other services for specific activities. It is not something that needs legislation or anything else. But this one, which in a second shot...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u63	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u64	Yeah, I haven't gotten over my time yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u65	How'd you never get past him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u66	One and a half minutes I have spoken in my prototype, Mr President. Thank you, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u67	Times aren't added. That cannot be said by an experienced parliamentarian like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u68	Well, it's okay that they don't add up, I'm done now. I'd be done now. I would like to mention that, in a second context, you will consider, since you are interested in the Ministry of Labour, the welfare sector, the possibility of joining a welfare centre, as we did with the Paedo-psychological Centre in Xanthi and other institutions, which could not survive. They, however, joined the welfare centres and proceeded regularly. I present the document of the RESEMA, the POGARA and the letter that they have sent to the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr President, and apologise for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u69	Good. Here, Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. I should like to tell you that the issue of Sicily concerns us and concerns me personally. It is a difficult issue, because it is a historic institution, which you too know has started as a legal person governed by public law - and even in the years of the junta, I think, it has changed legal status and became a legal person of private law - and it has a strange structure. As you have rightly said, his board of directors, even if it is NLF, defines it as the state. So it's a alloy right now between a public and a private body. And it's a historic institution with a great action, training children with disabilities for too many years. Maybe it's the oldest I think we have in Attica. So with great interest and joy - if you like - I will see your point about the economic consolidation plan. We will see for ourselves whether the case law you refer to has changed. And I would remind you at this point that there is an outstanding court dispute at the Sikaryidio Foundation on the responsibility of the heir. So we also expect this to end, so that we have a very clear picture, before we can think about whether Sikaryidio can become a public structure and join the Centre for Social Welfare at Attica. How can we now strengthen Sikaryidio through cooperation with education and through cooperation with the Municipality of Amarousio and with more positions integrated into CIFs - which, as you know, has a very clear financing framework and would help very much the financial inputs to Sikaryidio - are issues that we are studying. So, at this point and along with your proposal for the economic consolidation plan and of course your experience, because from the position you've known a lot, I would like to invite you to second level, if you want, in the office at the Ministry, to be able to get some wisdom from your experience and discuss how we can all give a solution to the Sikaryidio Foundation together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u71	We are returning to normality, after thanking Mrs Liikolis and Mr Famelos and the Minister, of course, for the sudden change in the series, at the request of the Secretary of Government. We are now moving on to the first under number 386/15-1-2020, a topical question by the Member of the Larissa Movement of Change Mr. Evangelias Liankoulis, to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "The Ministry of Justice is dying" in the case of Domenikos Holocaust. Mrs. Liikali has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I bring you on Domenico's good day, which is gathered at the village's cafe and watching us. And that's what he told you since 14 December, when he sent you, the network of martyr cities, the resolution on what has happened to them, after article 42 of Law 4640/2019. Domeniko is a picturesque and beautiful village of the Prefecture of Larissa, which you, as Thessalo, know it because you have come. And of course, it is an honor for us to address you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u73	And the non-Thessalians know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u74	And the Thessalians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u75	That is more to my colleague's point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u76	So we invite you there because it is very picturesque and very beautiful, but at the same time it is a way to show that we are fighting against historical oblivion. The Domenico, therefore, is faced with the problem that its inhabitants, the Holocaust families, are a witness city in Domenico, known throughout Greece now - made a race to collect all the evidence against the Italian authorities, to document the holocaust, to declare it a holocaust and then testify to compensation in order to be morally justified, because the whole village was burnt and hundreds of people were killed. Unfortunately, the article I mentioned in 42 of Law 4640/19 took over, Mr Minister, as you know such allowances, so that these people are at the moment against the fact that they cannot, because the pipeline is around 300,000 euros. This issue has a good social and national context. I don't have to say anything more to you. I just need to listen to a yes and I do not need to answer, because your Ministry and with your own face, I dare say, Minister, we expect it to recognize the national sign of this particular issue. One 'yes', to end the matter here. And fair and moral. And I don't even have to say what your resignation said two years ago, that's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I really understand the sensitivity with which you are addressing this issue. Since, however, a number of questions have been raised in the text of your question, I would like you to allow me to answer them, so that we can end up and, if you do not want to make use of your dentistry, I will answer a whole question to close it, if that is what you intend to do, as long as I know in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u79	That's not happening. Depending on what you will answer, we will see whether it has or will not have any second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u80	Well, good, then. I can assure you that with the same sensitivity that all of us in Parliament share on these issues, the government and the Prime Minister are dealing with the issue of compensation for the victims of the atrocities of the occupied troops and I believe that the Greek Government unanimously - and indeed was in the period of the previous government, SYRIZA - considers the claims, of war redress and compensation, as they emerged from World War II, valid, active and claimable and will continue to make them through all appropriate means until they are definitively satisfied. Of course, it is not our intention to deny the right of the victims of the martial villages, such as Domenikos - which you rightly say - to seek their fairness through Greek justice. I think, however, and I am coming back to answer a number of points which you have raised in the text of your question, that the government, by imposing the law, accepts an unjust, criticism, not to say unjust, which you know very well that has many different reasons and many different reasons. Do you want me to remind you that the lawsuit had been passed twice by a previous PASOK government? Both had been brought to Parliament by the Minister of Justice Miltiadis Papaioannou. In fact, the first time it was voted by a very broad majority, as I remember, in 2011 and the second time it was voted by all the parties of the Greek Parliament, except for the Communist Party of Greece. Its reintroduction to the reconnaissances, which, of course, relate to the competence of the multi-legislative court, was made for specific reasons, which had as their starting point the same reasons that the two previous governments had arranged to vote on it. It has the same objectives, it is in line with the provisions of the mediation law and of course it is trying to address the enormous delays that exist in the field of justice. Do we not recognise that the biggest problem that the area of Greek justice currently has is the excessive time it takes, so that it can be awarded? So we have to do something. Because for us - and I imagine that for every Minister of Justice and in the past - it is a major objective to speed up the proper functioning of justice and, of course, to ensure that every citizen is given the right to appeal to it. But I accept this, and because I imagine you'll come back with your dentistry...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u81	This is where you close your prototype, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u82	I'm hanging up, Mr. President. Redeeming the actions for war damages, such as the one concerning the Holocaust in Domenikos, in Ellas, has a completely different moral dimension and must be treated with the historical responsibility on the part of the state and not with the logic of some exclusively technocratic criteria, which may aim to shorten the time of justice. That is why I reserve the right to tell you in dentistry what we are thinking and how we are going to deal with this particular issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the Psychics High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Liikali has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u84	Minister, I'm surprised. I hope, in the end, that you surprise me very much. Why, when the questioner calls you - and I ask you in this regard - to answer a question so specific, you are basically leaving the court and throwing the ball away, thinking that I will not go down again. So I bring the ball back to the field. I ask you today not to sit down, Minister. Do not enter into the temptation “these things go on, but they are gone.” I have not come here to share them with you, nor to make populism nor opposition, nor to tell you that the whole world has risen with the judiciary - I am a twenty-six years active lawyer - nor that you saw the day before yesterday that there have been other partnerships, together with the legal world, the chambers, STEB, BSE and so on. You will take these into account when you reply to the amendment that has already been tabled and will be incorporated into the Labour Ministry's draft law by my own party. So if I wanted to tell you, I'd tell you all over again. I came here to specificize this issue and I said and I say again that we have a different kind of issue, which, although it is part of the great circle called 'justice', but it is more partial and more specific. He's got special features. These are compensations for a martial village, a martyr's city. I must therefore remind you that, in the intergroup on German allowances for SYRIZA, Members representing the party of the current government, the New Democracy Party, when they heard this request from the residents - because they were represented in person, Mr Minister, many Domenicians came down to the committee and the committee heard them - were the first to say that it is unfair to exclude it. This was in fact included in the explanatory memorandum of the law that ultimately excluded the judicial office. This is an overall response. For all of this, however, and for the administration of justice, you will answer us in due course, when you tell us why you are bringing the law back to another time, whether you connect it to the administration of justice, why you brought it on a proposal by a New Democracy MEP at 23.45 and not many people could understand it when you brought it, etc. But that's what you're going to tell us then. We are coming today and say: In the person of the Minister of Justice, we have a total of two features which are very important: the sign of law and morality and the national sign. And can I tell you something else, Minister? As a matter of fact, it's not much. Most of them have filed and convened their actions so far, such as the people of Red as I know, the Diastomos of Kalavrytas and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u85	It's minimal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u86	The Minister concludes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u87	Repeat: Yes or no? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u88	Mr. President calls it excellent. Yes or no, Minister? Yes to the exemption of these special cases in the Multilateral Primary Courts for German damages. So simple!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u89	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u90	Madam President, I understand that you really want to lead the debate, which is legitimate in the logic of politics. There is, however, a previous written question for you. I am going to answer that question. In this question you raise specific questions to me. Don't you want me to answer that? So what I am doing is trying to answer the text first, which is asked by you and nothing more. Two words to reach the issue at issue. This debate does have a dimension, which to a very large extent you realise creates enormous contradictions. Or we will accept that the biggest problem in the area of justice is the terrible delays in its award, and so we need to find the way to deal with this problem, or from there, hypocritically, we will throw the ball at the platform, thinking that by satisfying either side - of course, I am not talking about compensation, and I want to be clear about it, which you are talking about - we will create the political arguments of anyone, if you wish, whoever you want, may exist. And I say this, because at some point we must be serious about at least having institutional issues dealing with them together, recognising the problem and trying to find solutions. This amendment neither entered into an unrelated bill nor intended - or if you want to - to reduce the time for justice, nor creates issues relating to the unconstitutionality you call on. This is almost half the rate of the judiciary imposed in many other European countries and that is exactly the way it is done. But I will not say any more because I want to answer the substance of the question that you have asked me. With regard to the issue of war damages relating to individual citizens' claims, even when they are collectively exercised, I would like to say that: You know, in a single document the claims of more citizens accumulate. In this case, there is obviously a ratio similar to the amount of each's claim, which could be borne by that. It is therefore clear that there is no such obstacle to any logic. What's the point? I believe that the part concerning the actions of war damages must be seen again, so that we can achieve the most appropriate way of meeting the fair demands of all the residents of the martial villages and especially of Domenic. That is what I consider to be a historic debt and a minimum recognition of the sacrifice of the victims. So I say to you, and I say this at the moment, that we are considering the possibility of exempting these actions from the obligation to pay a judicial notice, as long as no other legal and constitutional issues arise. The first picture we have - and I say it because you have caused it in your question - is that it may be possible and I suspect that in a short time we will take the relevant legislative initiative. As far as the overall debate on the judiciary is concerned, in addition to the amendments that have already been tabled, I believe that I have also stated publicly that the new legislative committee on the Code of Civil Procedure will be placed on the table and in which we are awaiting the final proposals. I repeat that the reason why it was imposed was clear. The government acknowledges that there is a matter with the martial villages and claims for compensation. We'll take an initiative so that this part can cover it. However, the whole debate on the enforcement of the judiciary will also be the subject of the Legislative Committee of the Code of Civil Procedure, in order to come to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u91	The next topical and urgent question to Mr Chiara will be debated. This is the first question under number 1966/15-10-2019 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: “Evolution of court investigations on lending political parties”. It's very timely! Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. As you have understood from the date, we have entered the timely procedure because it has not been answered in the written question procedure. Minister, we are talking about loans from the parties to the two-party, ND and PASOK. And it's a matter linked to the bankruptcy of our country. You are aware that the credit obligations of the parties to the post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipalities reached 420m euros in October 2016. At that time, and for at least five years, neither loans nor interest were served. She wasn't a prostitute. In fact, as Mr Pantalakis said, the former Governor of the Agricultural Bank, in the committee of inquiry set up at the initiative of the SYRIZA Government, the terms of the loan contracts were more favourable at that time to the Agricultural Bank for the parties, which is why the parties saw the Agricultural Bank as a small machine. Of course, the governments also appointed the administration of the banks, thus creating the well-known triangle 'government - parties - banks - media administrations' and reaching this social and political bankruptcy of our country. Examination of the dossiers of the parties' lending has shown a large number of favourable regulations, omissions and violations of the rules. There were cases where multiannual guarantees were granted, for example, even future public financing over a decade as a guarantee for these loans. Of course, the Bank of Greece is curbing these concessions - retrospectively, of course - as over-finances, judging them too long to be considered safe. In practice the banks provided liquidity to the New Democracy and the PASOK to make election campaigns, go out governments, appoint the banks' administrations and start the same kite again. On this subject, an examination was carried out in April 2016 and a final findings were delivered in January 2017. We asked two questions, Minister - one on 11 October - because it concerns both the media and the parties' loans. We have received an answer for the media, Mr President. The answer is that there were criminal prosecutions by the Committee of Inquiry. For the loans of the parties, however, there was nothing in the answer. We have come back, therefore, if I am not mistaken on 15 November, as the President said, and we ask you: What stage is the cases of parties borrowing? Is the preliminary exam complete and prosecuted? What initiatives will you take as Minister to complete the examination of these files? Does your refusal to answer both the October question and the November question? Because I have to say personally that I was very curious. I would like you to tell me your opinion, where the question of borrowing lies, where the issue of the files is, where the results of the committee of inquiry are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u94	Mr Colleague, the present government, after its election victory, made a very specific political choice. We, unlike the events of the previous government, set as a priority the return to institutional normality. So, we in the Ministry of Justice, unlike previous political leadership practices, choose to leave justice behind from interventions, paralysis and any other anti-institutional interference. We have chosen our communication with the judges to always be within the limits set by the Constitution for the functioning of the three independent powers and, of course, with full transparency. In this context - sometimes the truth lies where no one sees it - we have just received 1209 from 11-10-2019 from 11-2019 - as you said - a question from the SYRIZ Members, we have sent a request to the prosecutor's office under No 214/16-10-2019, which is four - five days later. The answer we received - I do not need to tell you the document number - we sent you as an attachment to our reply. What the Prosecutor of Economic Crime replied to us, exactly what she considered to be capable of announcing in the context of her investigations, is precisely what we have notified you. And here, while respecting the institutional independence of justice, we could not do anything more, allowing the prosecutor to function as a posteriori. The way in which the Financial Prosecutor chooses to answer a pending judicial investigation is its own autonomous and self-advised choice. And the government's political leadership cannot be more persistent or pressing, even within the framework of parliamentary control. I would therefore like to make it clear that there is no responsibility of our own on the part of the Prosecutor or, of course, that our position would be incapable of covering or overcoming the case from the government. As I told you earlier, there are the details one can look for to find the truth. If you had better checked the document we sent you, you would have seen that the answer of the prosecutor's financial crime invokes Protocol No 32329 from the 4-7-2018 document of the agency. Remember who was government then, who asked the questions? I'm just saying that to know where we are. This document was included in Protocol No 456/21-8-2018 in response to the relevant question, which several of the current signatories had signed, which I imagine will be in the records of Members and which, of course, could have been overthrown by them. In particular, it is stated that for the lending of the political parties to that service a case-file was formed on the basis of which a preliminary examination was carried out. So the answer you are asking, my dear fellow Member, and you and the SYRIZA's honourable Members have been given to you and you have been given much earlier, at the time you were government. So I think that any attempt from there on is just an attempt to create impressions, which, as you know, neither in the past nor in the past will come about now. Of course, I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u96	Minister, for the sake of truth, I have Mr. Condonne's answer to my hands. You didn't produce anything new.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u97	The Prosecutor's letter shall be the same as that at issue in the main proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u98	In reply to Mr Kontonis, who is addressed to the Members, whom many of them participated in the examination, which I, too, had the honour of being chairman, along with my infamous colleague Mr Balomenakis, who I think deserves to discuss in his memory something here in the House, because he has recently left and was chairman of an examination - which we received from the Ministry and from the political leadership at the time - a preliminary examination of the loans of the parties has been carried out. The question, Minister, is why, in your answer, with the documents which are obviously attached to the respective office of the prosecutor for financial crime, you do not mention anything about the loans of the parties. Nothing, Mr President! Not that there's an ongoing examination that I'd accept. For that is not an intervention in justice, Minister. So, Mr President, does the Minister for Justice, who sends him an answer which is incomplete on the part of Members of Parliament, does he not control the completeness, as Mr Kontonis has said, so that he can come to tell us today that he does not intervene in justice? We have come back, Minister, with a new document. Because there may be a failure, Mr President. I understand that. In the omission you had in your first check, Mr. Chiara, in the performance of your duties, which you did not check what the prosecutor's office answered, we ask you a question and you're not looking for what is going on in the services? So the Greek Parliament is not entitled to know what is going on in the process of this examination? I want you to keep an eye on me, Minister, because this is a very serious matter. If we came back, did you send a new question to the D.A.? And she didn't answer you? And now you come to the oral debate again to have no response, while the SYRIZA government had an answer to the examination procedure? But what are we most concerned about, Mr President? When this discussion took place in 2016, based on the balance sheets of the parties, the debts of New Democracy and PASOK were 410 million to the banks. Mr President, in the accounts of the New Democracy and PASOK for 2018, the published ones, it appears that the bank debts are EUR 533 million. So, Minister, when he asks a member of the National Representation about where the loan examination is today 533 million, where the Bank of Greece said in 2011 that since the economic situation of the parties was unfavourable, the banks continued to finance while they knew that they were unable to repay these parties and, indeed, when the Piraeus Bank brought an action against New Democracy and PASOK in December 2016, five years after the interruption of payments, loans and interest, and only when the Committee of Inquiry started looking for things, today you tell me that it is not your job to look at the prosecutor's office exactly what is going on with this preliminary examination that has been going on since 2018, as Mr Contonis clearly and correctly told us? No, Minister. I don't agree with you. We'll have to look a little bit further. Because, to tell you the truth, we also looked into what is happening in SYRIZA's balance sheet. Because while 2016 said 8.4 million debt commitments, in 2018 it said 3.9 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So why does a party reduce its obligations, while some parties increase their loan obligations from EUR 410 to EUR 533 million, which were obviously charged with the recapitalisation of the banks that all Greeks paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u99	Please complete. The question has been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u100	I shall conclude, Mr President. You've made two adjustments. One regulation is for the haircut of the loans, and I would like the government to have an explicit position if you allow the loans of the South and PASOK parties to be laundered. Greek citizens require an answer as to whether you will allow the loans of the New Democracy and PASOK to be laundered, all that the election gatherings have been paid for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Femmelle, your time is up. I can't give you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u102	And the second thing I want you to say is that if the ambiguity of the bankers, which you have gone through in amending the Criminal Code, the ambiguity of those responsible for the current debt of 533 million of the New Democracy and PASOK parties will also be included, although this is a transaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u103	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u104	To pretend that it does not see the papers which are given in response and which make an appeal to an earlier question when you were a government, it is obviously an issue which I think goes beyond political controversy and must rather stand by how you understand the facts and common sense. We have been consistent in all procedures, Mr Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u105	But you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u106	We have voted on all the committees of inquiry, believing that the political life of the country should finally return. Others are the ones who voted in their own interests. You have to understand at some point that this account that all the bad texts of post-multipleism are obviously based on the old, as you said, a political system of old parties and the media and, in your opinion, a corrupt banking system is a record that has been overtaken. You don't understand that? But all the others, you were government before. You did the committees of inquiry. The results of the committees of inquiry don't you know? You were president. Was he a president? Wasn't you? Wasn't there actually the condensation of all the findings in a single phrase? They have not proved to be politically responsible anywhere. Didn't that come to the conclusion from the Committee of Inquiry? Has someone else come out yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u107	The file we filed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u108	Because here we have to look for common sense and understand what is going on. You have, however, raised a number of issues which I believe you should avoid in order to stay, if you want, the debate on the purely institutional field and, if necessary, not to overcome an institutional reference at least provided for in the parliamentary control procedure. As you know, from 11-1-2016 the New Democracy has acquired full financial self-sufficiency and operates with revenues from its members, from private funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u109	But you're telling the balance sheets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u110	The New Democracy since 2011 has not received any loan. Do you want me to remind you of what you did and tell me if you can give me answers, so we can get things cleared up and see them a little better? Wasn't it not Mr Tsipras who sent a letter in breach of the rules on bank lending, knowing in advance the illegality of his request, in order to request a facility for the loans of SYRIZA? Wasn't the ‘SGEI’ which should be put into liquidation and should SYRIZA pay most of that, which is already delaying the payment of the instalments and the loan to the banks? Didn't the debt haircut occur through opaque procedures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u111	Oh, no. You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u112	Are we lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u113	Yeah. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u114	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u115	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u116	Isn't there offshore?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u117	Your balance sheet records it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u118	Isn't there the offshore behind the "UPD"? Aren't there those?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u119	Will you answer the question, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u120	Calm down! Make a topical question, so you can have as much time as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, a Minister does not answer the question they are asking and referring to other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u122	In three minutes, don't open all the vedals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u123	If you have opened foreheads, ladies and gentlemen, I have to close them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u124	Do you have the capacity to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u125	I told you that if you stayed in the same field of the question, I'd stay in that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u126	But answer me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Femelle, don't go on!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u128	From there, however, before looking for everything else, give the answers to your home. And as these answers may be very difficult, you may have to go and find answers for others to your companions who were before the Change Movement, in PASOK, etc., who have a great knowledge and experience, and manage PASOK's finances at that time about how things happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u129	You probably don't have the ability to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u130	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u131	I repeat that the government operates institutionally. All the answers have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u132	You didn't write an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u133	The answers have a specific reference to a question by SYRIZA MPs since 2018, which you have not made sure to see, because it is a second essential paragraph of the answer that gives the prosecutor's own document of financial crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u134	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u135	So since you insist on coming back to an issue which, to a very large extent, I think has been answered in every direction and, of course, with very specific arguments, I think it would be appropriate to organise your own argument on matters relating to you. This is a very old story. You tried a thousand ways...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u136	Minister, I can't leave you any more time. Shut up right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u137	...to find a way out. It has not been proven anywhere to involve political people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u138	Good! The answer is complete. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u139	From that point on, I imagine it'll be a purely political record...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u140	Minister, there are presidents! Do you hear him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u141	...that you'll be trying to maintain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u142	Good! The President-in-Office is not only addressed to the Members. It is also addressed to the Ministers and the Ministers are obliged to have the same respect as Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, I have been interrupted many times!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u144	Yeah. I said that four times. You all know that we have a roll-call vote and a bill! The second question under number 383/15-1-2020 will now be discussed in the context of the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "In despair the olive growers of Messinia and the whole country, due to the constantly falling price of olive oil". Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is not the first time that it comes to highlighting the parliamentary procedure and resolving the problem of olive oil producers, but also of edible olives, Messinia and the whole country, who are now forced to sell their products at a very low price. The absolute truth is that they are forced to sell their products at a price below production costs, Minister. And you know this, of course, very well and you yourself who had already visited the Messiah at the beginning of last November. You have visited "SYKIKI", the union and the respective units. You have had the opportunity to know about the size of the problem, which is really huge. Already, three of my colleagues from the Change Movement have tabled a timely question, which has been discussed, for the very low prices of olive oil in other parts of Greece, in Crete, in Argolida, in Elia and elsewhere. So you know that this year is the situation worse than ever. You are well aware that prices have fallen internationally, of course, but as in Greece, unfortunately, they have not fallen anywhere else. Of course, it is undeniable - and I am sure you know that, Minister - that we need to see what the national strategy will be from the Ministry of Olive Oil, which is a request from producers for decades ago and we have not seen anything yet. What is your strategy, then, which I must admit we have not seen it unfold? You know very well that we are the third largest olive oil producing country after Spain and Italy in the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a minute. You know very well, too, that we have a very great weakness in standardising the product and that is where we must insist. Unfortunately, only 30% of total production reaches the standardisation stage. The remaining 70% are sold in bulk, so that the Italians take it, confuse it with other olive oils of their own and sell it standard of the worst quality, but much higher price. Another very serious issue, especially in our own country, is the very high cost of production, which is a major issue. Of course, another very serious issue, which - unfortunately - we had not seen any serious treatment from the previous government, has to do with the issue of fraud and, of course, the very incomplete funding that exists when there are similar issues. We have tabled a specific framework of measures and proposals as a Change Movement. We have called for damage to be covered, which has been caused by extreme weather and climate change. We've asked for a request to be made to the relevant services...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u146	But, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, I can't show any more tolerance. Go on to the question. That's all in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u147	...to activate storage and evacuation of the crisis. We have called for concrete measures to reduce production costs. We want, of course, to see what's going on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u148	I can't give you any more time, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u149	So we want, Minister, to know about our strategy and the proposals that we have made, what the position of the Ministry is. What are the measures that the Ministry intends to take in order to be able to deal with farmers who have suffered such a great blow to their incomes with harmonised practices...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u150	What the government will do about the issues you have said. That is the question of three words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u151	..relief. What will the government do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u152	Minister, before I give you the floor, I have a statement to make. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty students and students and an educational meeting from the 91st Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You realise that I left the paper for reasonable reasons. Here, Minister, you have the floor. Of course, I am now given the opportunity to say that it has happened and it is the third time I have chaired, and I am almost the same question to you. I think that something needs to be done under the Rules of Procedure - we have the right to ask it - because within 15 days we have a identical question from three different regions of Greece. When an answer has been given, this answer should be communicated to colleagues. That is the proposal I will make at the Conference of Presidents. I happened to be right here for the torch and everything. I do not underestimate the question of my dear Nadia or anyone else, but to follow practical things to make progress. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Although I share your remark - and that is so - because last week my colleague, Mr Screkas, replied to three questions by my colleague in the House on the issue of olive oil and its price, and I would therefore say that these questions have been answered, I also respect the initiative of my colleague, because I think that he actually shows the anxiety of our olive producers about the price issue and is the result and the result of my colleague's sensitivity to this anguish, which I must say is that I have also been transferred from my fellow Members who are from oil-producing areas: Mr Madash, Mr Chrysomalis, other Messinia, but also from other regions, all carry the same anxiety, because the truth is that there is a very low price arrangement for olive oil this year. That's the truth. Now, let's make it clear, though, some things. Look, I also think that the dialectic relationship between the Vice-Presidents and the producers must also be a relationship of honesty, because it helps more widely in the organisation of production, to the extent that we can all contribute to this. What did I want to say with this introduction? Of course, there is a low price formation, but let us have a clear debate. Can we interfere with the price? Is there such a possibility? So, is there any possibility today, to me, to make this decision: is the price low, I raise it? Can I take that position? I think we all know that prices are shaped by supply and demand rules and, indeed, in an internationalised environment, which means that the market is not closed, the market is open. Why is there a low price today? Explained. I will say this once again, that this is for two reasons: there are large productions in Spain, there is great production in Tunisia, and there is also the imposition of US duties on Spanish olive oil. Spanish olive oil has an extremely low price, Mrs Giannakopoulou, because it's too much, because the Spanish producers are fighting. One of the biggest problems facing my Spanish counterpart is the price issue. We have arranged a bilateral meeting on Monday within the European Union Council of Ministers for Rural Development to see what scope there is for joint action and addressing this issue. But what reality is it? That Spanish producers have channelled too much and cheap oil into the market so that prices have fallen. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I would, however - and I would like - to agree and end this because I see that in your question you propose that I set a minimum price for olive oil. You say, 'What additional measures do you intend to take, not only to keep the price of olive oil continuously down, but also to set a minimum price of olive oil, which leaves room for survival for olive producers?' Mr President, if I have time to go on, or I will stop and say it in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u154	Because it is on the substance, you have a minute, give this answer too, so that Mrs Giannakopoulou can be placed more fully.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u155	So very quickly on this issue. It is a position in which the Communist Party of Greece systematically insists: Lower product price. I will not tell you that this is obviously forbidden because it is a serious distortion of competition - it is forbidden, we do not discuss this - I will tell you that it is completely wrong. ‘Number of product’ means the following: When there is a maximum price internationally, in Greece they will all come and buy at the lowest, why? Because it will help them, since there will be superior internationally. When there is internationally lower price than the lowest price, then internationally there will be a lower price, then no one will buy the product, because it will not help them and go to the international market to buy it. It's a completely wrong position. I do not want such things to be heard by producers. Other things need to be done - and I will explain them afterwards - to strengthen their income.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u156	Good. Mrs. Giannakopoulou, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u157	To speak, Minister, with absolute sincerity and absolute truth, the findings are very good, wishing and wishing. The reality, however, really burns the oil producers and especially those who are exclusively farmers and not just get a supplementary income. No one - yes, no one - can say that we can actually interfere with the prices of olive oil - as you say, you are also a champion of the free economy. But over there, where the state really has to intervene - and so far we have seen nothing from you and from the Ministry, Minister - it is first of all what you are doing and what you are doing as a Ministry for the possibility of harmonised practices, in cooperation with European authorities. Isn't that something to which the Ministry should be placed? Because this is a abuse of the free market, Minister. Shouldn't there be intervention over there? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Also, somewhere that the Ministry can intervene - and it is very important - is to make use of the possibilities that we have to make intensive laboratory checks on the Hellenisation, which is carried out in Cornwall from third countries. Isn't that an obligation of the state? Shouldn't the Ministry do that? What are the results? What have you done to that, Mr. Voridis? Because this is a major issue and a huge pathogen and misformism, which has to do with Greek olive oil. What's going on? What's the ministry doing about it? And thirdly, I am closing with this, Mr President, to see what we can do about the compensation that can be claimed, Minister, we are not talking here about silk-making, we are talking, in fact, and in particular, about the measures that you can take to support the price within the European framework, within the framework of the common agricultural policy. That is what we are asking of you, Minister. And above all, what we are calling for - and even we have not seen and expected samples of writing - is whether there will be a national strategy integrated by the Ministry for Olive Oil, which is the major - if you like - perhaps the most probable agricultural product in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u158	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u159	First of all, I am pleased, Madam President, that we agreed on price issues. It is important that it be heard, and it is important for our producers to understand it. I am therefore pleased that you do not insist on your basic view of the minimum price here. Now let's go to the rest. What are the measures that one can take in the context of - if you like - the management of this problem? One measure, for example, could be discussed is the so-called'reserve'. This is indeed a measure which the European Commission is able to do, which we are considering. Say a little what is this measure, so we can get to know each other? In fact, the possibility is for producers who want it and those who have a suitable storage space to keep a certain quantity of olive oil stored and do not try to place it on the market, why? In order to create a kind of artificial shortage, therefore in the supply, the price should be kept relatively higher. This measure was tested in 2012. He did not have the desired results. The response from producers is too limited. We are considering this as a possibility of this measure. It is something that Spain is doing, with very limited results again. We must therefore be realistic in assessing this measure and I am now talking about the intervention, which you have said, in the context of European policy. Second matter. Also, we need to be clean. You spoke of harmonized practices. As you know, in order to submit serious and structured dossiers to the Competition Committee, it is not enough to say 'harmonised practices are being carried out', but it must have evidence and documentation of these harmonised practices. We, right now that we're talking about the ministry, not just we have no evidence, we don't even have a complaint. So, when you say so from Parliament, I would like to ask you whatever information or indication you have - I do not say it dissuasively, I do not say it to reject your argument, but I say it because I think you are serious about it - to bring it in order to examine it and, of course, to pass it on to the competent authority, which is the Competition Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u160	Minister, are there no harmonized practices?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u161	I am talking to colleagues who are legally trained. This should therefore be said in a certain and structured way, not in the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u162	So you're telling us there are no complaints?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u163	Not even. No clues, but not even reports, to examine. So we are ending this issue as well. I'm telling you, because we need to get to the majors. The major problem is, in fact, the exploitation of the commercial opportunities and opportunities that the government has secured by preventing the duty of 25% in the United States from being imposed on the United States and by creating a comparative advantage for olive oil and oil producers and our standardisers. This advantage must be exploited by the market. So why doesn't he use it? You told me, for example, about the issue of Hellenism. But where's the Greekization going? You've found the man now, so you can tell him. You tell the man, who at every Ministerial Council raises the question of etiquetage, labeling, i.e. indicating signs, in order to identify, not just the place of production of the product, but the place of production of the ingredients of the product and by compulsory labelling. One of the issues I am going to discuss with the competent European Commissioner in half an hour from now - we hope to be on time - is this issue: compulsory registration. You are talking to the man, who is currently accused by the Nordic countries of defending gastronomic nationalism. That's what you're telling me. So this is obviously a matter of interest. Only, beware, has a legal condition that must be the subject of compulsory registration. Otherwise, there is no violation here, because there is no inaccurate statement. I'm saying that, to be informed. When the other sells oil, which I tell you has mixed Greek olive oil and says "produced in Italy", it was produced, packed in Italy and does not make a false statement. That is why it is necessary to indicate the ingredients of the product. It was produced, packed in Italy, with oil produced by Greece. However, the second part requires a change in the regulatory European framework, for which the government is fighting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will now be discussed under number 394/20-1-2020 of the Second-Chairman of Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "What practical measures have been taken and what measures have been taken to reverse the situation and stop the abandonment of the Bytina State Foundation". Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin, I would like to make a point, because before there was a question from Members about the various economics of the parties. I would like to say that questions are wrongly asked within the House. There are officials within the parties, in all the parties - and we can point out who is from our place in terms of what we are dealing with - who are very well aware of economics. We shall now proceed to the specific question. Minister, in order to leave and go to the commissioner, we are ready to make 12 meters of pie in Arcadia and Bytina, we have saved your boot and even higher, if we are going to finish the issue of the Trinity Foundation. We're moving on. Minister, 12-9-2019, I asked you a question. You came to me, and on 30-9-2019 I sent you a detailed letter on your answers, which I told you exactly what you were told to say and how many times the ministers have told you here. I've made a detailed letter to you, Minister, to help you. Then we said: is there any money for that Bytina institution? If they exist or not, you said you'd look for it. Today I think you've looked into it and seen that there's money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u166	But not 700 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u167	We have money in good mood, we also have information from the Ministry of Finance, and I would like to ask you: why do not all these issues go ahead? Today we have to finish the process with a visit to the Bytina State Foundation, where we have to say specific things, because five years are being done by the ministers' announcements. That is why, Minister, I ask you and I expect you to tell us: after four months, where is the procedure? When will this really Beetle Paradise work as a visiting place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and why you kept your time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u169	The honourable Member's sensitivity to this issue is well known. To talk about the money. There's nowhere 700 million. We transfer here the answer from the Ministry of Finance, which, as you know, has a responsibility, because this is a legacy. The Ministry of Finance therefore has the responsibility of the legacy. The Ministry of Finance says grants are available for the maintenance of the Agricultural State Institute of Bytina. A loan of EUR 316,000 was made available on 5-11-2013. EUR 100,050 has been gradually attributed to carrying out work for the estate. This is the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u170	How much money does the ministry have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u171	That is the answer of the Ministry of Finance on this matter. The rest you have to address them to the Ministry of Finance, to tell them that if they have EUR 700 million and do not give them to the estate, they will give them them. I say this because the legacy case is always a matter. We have not deepened, Mr Constantinople, - and I tell you - on the legal terms and the restrictions, on the issues of this legacy, but the management of the legacy is always an issue. Now let's go to what's on your mind. You're concerned about taking advantage of the estate. That's what's interesting now. In exploiting the farm, you ask me what it is that we have planned. Training for the rational use of pesticides will continue. To date, more than two hundred fifty producers have been trained. So they're going to keep doing training. They will identify and growers of the special local product, which is the Minalou tea. There are three programmes for which there will be integration, and there will be funding from there. It's going to be a model beekeeping. There's gonna be an outrage of the experimental chain for the forty acres. There's gonna be a modern fire extinguisher system. There will be a visiting Byzantine garden of fifteen acres and a hop plantation. This is going to be in 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. Minister, this is the permanent problem of public administration and government. I understand that we don't have PASOKs to solve everything, but at least a few things could go ahead. What do I mean? I gave you data last time, not for 700 million, but from a board of the Ministry of Finance. In this Treasury, it says that revenues and transfers are 7,554.380 euros. The Treasury can't say wrong. He says he will give one of these as required by the Ministry of Rural Development. Look, this can't go on. We said, that's what SYRIZA did. Are you going to carry on too? Can we meet the relevant institutions from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of Rural Development, who can take over and finally see how much money we can make available? This is essential, Minister, and I ask you to do so because I think you can do so. I really do. Minister, the second thing I want to say is this. The answer refers to training programmes per year. I'm telling you again what you said. The last programme that has been implemented - I want you to ask them why they are not telling you, I understand it from the answers - was in the New Democracy Government, but it also had a little further, which is why the big programme was then made. It's been stopped ever since. As far as matters relating to cherry garden and apiculture and beekeeping are concerned, nothing has happened. Minister, I want you to come, you're invited by all the Arcadia agencies. And because you often come to Arcadia and honor her, I tell you to come soon to see it so that you can evaluate and do something, not leave four more years and we haven't done anything. So I do not want to insist on the issues that you are re-writing and re-writing, but I want us to stay on three issues. I would like you to commit that the next ten days - or twenty or twenty days - we will hold a meeting with the Ministry of Finance and with the institutions of all of the Municipality of Gortynia, from the Vitinas State Foundation, so that we can resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u174	Yeah, we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u175	Thank you. The second is to see the money and the third is through this visit to plan a visit to come, to put down what issues and how they can be financed in order to make a visitable place and to enable the money that the donor has put to be used to that end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u176	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u177	I hope I'm gonna need less. Well, firstly, the initiative is accepted and we'll set up a meeting in the next few days. Now, if it's ten, fifteen or twenty, that's what we'll find. But in any case within the next few days, we will meet to see the specific issues on the ground. Because you raise the issue of the legacy, the legacy has been in 1863. It is a legacy that, without - I repeat - I have seen its specific terms - I have not seen it, it is not at the Ministry - it has been for agricultural education. Agricultural education in 1863 you realised that it was at a different stage than it was in 2020. I tell you because this is a matter that we are also dealing with with other beetles, which lay down restrictive conditions for the use of their money. Because when one says that I leave my property to be exploited for agricultural education, you can't easily change the purpose of the legacy to get the money to do something else, there's a procedure. And the issue of agricultural education, as you know, in 1863 there were no agricultural schools, there was nothing. With the money of the particular benefactor, Triantafylides, the Agricultural School of Athens and the Agricultural School of Bytinas was founded. Yes, but since then, even in terms of management, because you may look at a table which says money or sums, which arise from the management of the legacy and which one must see how they are exploited under the terms of the legacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u178	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u179	Good. If we have correctly put the legal framework in place, what we need to see now is this particular debate. Because, as you can see, in reality, what is being done, apart from the specific training activities of producers for plant protection, which in the narrow sense belongs to the concept of agricultural education, otherwise, the other actions are more regional than the central body. So all this needs to be discussed. I am open to this debate. I'll meet you downstairs and talk to you. I have informed you of the actions and the programming of 2020, but of course we are open to any further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIAOS VENIZELOS", forty-two students and students and three teachers from the 38th High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now continuing with the second with number 2546/11-12-2019 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement of Change Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Creative Employment Centres (CDEs) and children/persons with disabilities (CDEs) of the Municipalities with stable funding and permanent jobs". The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. The issue that has to do with the structures and social policy in general, of course, needs a wider debate and I believe that with the CSCE you will have the opportunity to discuss the next time, in order to see the scope of social policies that the municipality must implement as close to the citizen, of course with the support of the state. The question is about a specific structure, which has to do with creative employment centres. Creative employment centres and, of course, the disabled children's creative employment centres have operated under a European programme, and for many years there has been a renewal of their function and, of course, a renewal of human resources. The offer of these centres is huge. But there are two issues: firstly, that there is no equalisation throughout Greece, because it has been launched as a municipality's initiative in order to create them within the European programme, and secondly, that this structure, which has proved to be taking on permanent features, continues to be implemented in the form of a programme. So the question to you is whether you are thinking and how to permanently provide services to children's creative employment centres, these services to all citizens, and, of course, to creative employment centres for children with disabilities, that is to say, to have all the municipalities again the right to create through their organization structures that will provide these creative employment services for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, you are indeed raising a very serious issue concerning a sensitive social structure, which is necessary especially in modern families for the creative employment of children, especially when parents are working late. To have an image of what number we're talking about, about seventy-two thousand vouchers have been given by the CSR and CSR-EAA programme, of which about four and a half thousand are in AAA. Six hundred eighty-eco-public OTA bodies support the programme, eight hundred and sixty-six private operators, in particular CPIs, are involved in the programme, which is financed by European funds through the EBRD, and is equal to ninety-five public bodies from OTAs and ninety-six private operators respectively. The truth is that, in the light of the new programming period, there is agreement with both other ministries involved, both with the Ministry of Economy and Development and with the Ministry of Labour, that European funding should be continued, and I think we are very close to continuing funding. The cost was close to only 100 million for this programme, which is one of the two pillars - the other is the voucher for kindergartens - the second pillar is for CSR and CSR - ACE. We believe that it will be possible to renew funding very soon, and that will also enable us to re-evaluate the people who are currently working in the programme as a co-financed programme. Indeed, in geographical distribution there is this impressive one: Attica, which has the largest population in the country, has much less CIDs than in central Macedonia, which has half the population in relation to Attica and has a larger number of such structures. But what is important and which we are ready to do is obviously to launch a dialogue with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, with the CEDEFOP, with the Management Board, and we will obviously encourage and see what is needed to open new structures. Obviously, we do not mean closing structures in central Macedonia. What we are saying is where there is a greater need and more, if you like, population density to create new structures. Obviously, local authorities have their own self-government, and it is their own initiative to participate in the programme. But the intention as a government is to move forward and encourage the continued operation of the AACC and the reopening of new structures where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u184	Me too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the 'Harmonization of working and family life' programme is of course with European funding and has made a decisive contribution to supporting the family with children, both through their integration into nursery and childcare facilities and with their employment in creative employment centres, the CSR is, of course, very critical socially, the issue of the CSR. This should therefore, once we have agreed, be a wider political policy, an object of the first degree of self-government which is within the framework of universal service, universal service, in the sense that all municipalities can continue to be in the programme or create the corresponding services, in order to provide this support to families with children in their own municipality. It is an issue that, of course, needs more study. Once there are problems with regard to European funding, we should see how we replace with national resources. And certainly for the rest of the municipalities we must not leave ourselves to whom municipalities want only, but to become conscious - and for their part, it is a conscience - and the new municipal authorities should be integrated into a programming process. This needs to be supported by financial, organisational, administrative and, of course, the issue that concerns workers. We can go, for example, to a similar arrangement with the one we have made with the 'Help at Home', which, with the gradual reduction of European funds and the passage of the programme to national more resources, finally resulted in a declaration which is extremely important, which is in progress, so that not only the human potential that has been employed so far in the 'Help at Home' but also everyone who needs additional skills and a larger number of them can join in order to have an upgrade of the programme. The same thing we need to see with the CIDs and CIDs - ADMs. I'm not saying it's the only way, but the ending must be that. If you achieve funding from more than European resources - I am referring to again - and we can also operate for a period of time in the rest of the municipalities in order to come, firstly, on an equal footing, that would be a good thing. And I think you should pursue this very objective, achieve it, and of course always in cooperation with the CEDEFOP and the CSR and CSR workers, who have important experience and creative proposals that they have tabled to the Ministry of Labour, I suppose, too, in the Ministry of the Interior, so that they too can best contribute to the upgrading of the institution and its expansion throughout Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u187	I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President. You also know from your term of office at the Ministry of Labour with Giannis Vroutsi very well, you know that because you have shown personal interest. I think we agree that these structures must not only be maintained, but also strengthened. As far as the issue of staff is concerned, unfortunately, we are confused in this country. We often hire permanent staff as temporary and temporary staff as permanent, and at some point this must be balanced. There is no structure, which works for almost all of the year, which operates from people who have time contracts and who, in any case, are in a status, in a grey zone as to whether or not they will continue. It is certain - and the main one - that it must be immediately concluded by finding funds and ideally so that the state budget is not imposed, because the programme with the kindergartens is now slowly being transferred to the state budget to continue. So what matters is that we need to see the problem with funding immediately. I think it will be solved, financed and I think we will soon have very good news and the programme will be renewed and we will also see the issue of creating new structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 116.a.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the agenda for legislative work, there will be a short break until colleagues are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts for Research in Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology and other provisions". A request has been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 16, 33 and 50 of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u190	I will also read the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u192	Please, my colleague, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u193	A statement, Madam President, before the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group begins reading the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u194	I don't think I gave you the floor, and you'll have to wait for me to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u195	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u196	You will allow me not to give you the floor, because the debate has been declared dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u197	Just for a minute, let's make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u198	We are also asking for the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u199	Let me finish. I will allow you to make the statement immediately after the names have been spoken, the vote. Then you will be able to make the statement. Because I'm so scared...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u200	It's a matter of substance, Madam President. Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u201	Madam President, I am very afraid that your statement will trigger a series of debates and we do not have that opportunity. We have to finish the vote, so we can go to the next...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u202	Madam President, before we enter the process, I would like to make a statement on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u203	I would also ask for the floor, Madam President, immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u204	Under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u205	You do not have the right to do this in the Rules of Procedure and you know that very well, because you are an old parliamentarian. Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u206	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute. I'm really complaining. I want to make a statement before we enter the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also read the list...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, for a minute. I'd like to make a statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u209	So you will allow me to read, after ten minutes of interruption, according to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u210	It's an unprecedented thing to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u211	Madam President, do you insist that we move forward without knowing what we are voting on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u212	Madam President, I asked you to make a statement for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u213	My colleague, the Rules of Procedure you know him much better than I do. You are an old parliamentarian and not just a parliamentarian. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u214	Madam President, please warmly...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u215	We invoke him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u216	We invoke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u217	Madam President, I did not say that I would not give you the floor. I didn't say that thing. I said that I would read the list of Members and after we have completed the vote, I would give you the floor to make the statement. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Because if you do what you have said at the moment, you know very well that a debate will be triggered which will be endless. Please. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u218	Madam President, it is on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u219	Is it possible to vote blindly, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u220	I would like to speak on a point of order for a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u221	We would have finished it now, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u222	Only if you withdraw the denomination can you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u223	I would like to speak on a point of order for a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u224	I'll read the names. Mrs. Anagnostopoulos Athanasia. Here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u225	The Bureau will give the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u226	Madam President, we are asking for the floor on a point of order for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u227	You must give the floor, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u228	We are raising a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u229	The Rules of Procedure impose...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u230	Madam President, we are asking under the Rules of Procedure, with three signatures instead of two, the floor. You can't give him to us. We raise a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in getting upset or shouting. We are in the process of voting. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u232	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u233	Just a minute, my colleague. We'll read the Rules of Procedure. We won't blame anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u234	Madam President, we have normally asked for the floor. You'll give the floor to both of us and everyone. However, this is why we need to know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement, by three Members, has been asked to speak on the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to inform you - as the Rules of Procedure do, ladies and gentlemen - that we have discussed and voted on articles, so the debate is seen as a complete one and we can continue to do so. I do not want to blame anyone, and I told you that the reading will take place, that the vote will take place and then I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u236	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u237	I ask for the floor on the Rules of Procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u238	Madam President, we are asking for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also read out the list of signatories to the roll-call vote in order to determine whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mrs. Anagnostopoulos Athanasia. Here. Mrs. Bagena Anna. Here. Mr. Vardakis Socrates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u240	Madam President, it is without precedent what is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Vassiliou. Here you go. Mr. Vernardakis Christoforos. Here you go. Mrs. Vetta Calliope. Here. Mr. Voutsis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mrs. Gesovasili Olga. Here. Mrs. Gara Anastasia. Here. Mr. Zabeck Hussein. Here you go. Mr. Thraniotis Manolis. Here you go. Mr. Katsis Marios. Here you go. Mrs. Malama Sunday. Here. Mr. Mamulakis Harry. Here you go. Mr. Marcus Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Meikopoulou Alexandros. Here you go. Mr. Burnus John. Here you go. Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou Eliza. Here. Mr. Papaliou George. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u242	Madam President, before we vote, I ask for the floor on a point of order. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, there is the required number of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote by Members. So we're interrupting...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u244	There's a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be an electronic roll-call vote on Articles 16, 33 and 50 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u246	Madam President, you have a responsibility as Bureau to give the floor to Census on a point of order. We ask for a minute's floor on a point of order. It is the Bureau's responsibility. We protest strongly. He has no precedent to ask that the Qualified Opposition should speak on a point of order for one minute and not to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u247	Good, good, good, Mrs. Sacorafa! Mr. Tsoulus is not as diligent as you. Bravo! Protecting the government from selling, not from the Rules of Procedure of the House. I'm afraid so. Protection of anti-constitutionals...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u248	And I asked you to speak before the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u249	That's what you're doing! You're not the Bureau of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u250	We had asked the Bureau for the floor before the vote. We informed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u251	I'm really sorry! They applauded you! Bravo! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u252	I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 38th High Athens (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also ask the rapporteurs to remain at the end of the vote on the farewell vote, as well as on the entire bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Ekaterini Notopoulou, Nikolaos Syrmaroleniou, Georgios Vagonas, Nikolaos Papa, Trophota Alexiadis, Antonio Samaras, Ioannis Kallianos, Dionysias - Theodoras Agerinopoulou and George Tsipras, who know that they will not be present in today's roll-call vote, as well as their intention to vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, are not counted on the electronic counting of votes and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u255	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the result of a roll-call vote, informing you that Mr Loverdos voted in writing. The vote will be registered with the approval of the Bureau. Article 16 of the bill passed 289 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 185 Members voted. Against this article, the House voted 104 Members. "PARON" voted no one. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Under Rule 33 of the bill, 289 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 111 Members. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 33 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Article 50 of the bill passed 289 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'OH', 136 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 50 has therefore been accepted as such, by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, I have asked the rapporteurs to remain within the Chamber for the completion of the roll-call electronic vote and for the vote on the farewell article and the whole bill. We are therefore entering the vote of the President-in-Office. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u260	Not if we don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u264	The late payment was made by a majority vote. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts for Research in Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u267	Not if we don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u271	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: ‘National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts for Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single discussion, in principle, of articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u273	The House has given the mandate requested. You will allow me here to give the floor, as I promised, to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Madam President. I would first like to protest that you did not give us the floor before the vote begins, because the intervention we are going to make and the statement we believe was directly linked to the Parliament's full information before the vote. Article 50, Madam President, is clearly unconstitutional. What we wanted to say and repeat now responsibly on Tuesday, when we discussed the draft law, and neither submitted the necessary documents and the European Commission's warning letter, which we requested - and we asked for Mr Phile and Mrs Jufi, who are the responsible Education Departments of the SYRIZA, to formally submit to Parliament - and more yesterday the official document of the IATAP letter, which has been published since September and demonstrates that there was an correspondence all these months that Mrs Kerame has concealed throughout the debate and in the parliamentary committee and in plenary. The IORP shall be the body responsible for the recognition of academic qualifications. And I repeat for the New Democracy colleagues that it was founded in 2005 by the then Minister, Mrs Giannakou, and has worked perfectly throughout this period despite any delays due to the volume of work. And it is another thing to see the acceleration of the process and the substance. This document, therefore, of the IATA is coming to show that Mrs Keramou had all the legal arguments of the competent authority for the recognition of qualifications, which proves that Article 50 is unconstitutional, and contradicts the European Commission's warning letter. We therefore denounce the Minister for Education to hide these elements. We think it's very serious. The House voted without full knowledge. We have asked for all this correspondence to be filed in the House. And we will come back with all the measures given to us by the Rules of Procedure. And it is certain that this whole argument will find the way it needs in the courts too, because it is a flagrant violation of Article 16 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, my colleague. The reason is now the special speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have tabled to you, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, our request to be able to place ourselves, which means that we shall, as before, be able to vote on the three articles, so that the House can understand and hide an opinion on the famous article 50, which has been afflicted and, it seems, will be afflicted very much by every Greek family. On the basis of what has been said in this Chamber, it seems that the Ministry of Education has followed a paradoxical process and has not, as all Members should have said, submitted, this correspondence which has been in existence for a long time not only with the IATA and the Ministry of Education but also with those involved in the question of the equivalence of academic qualifications. What is happening is that Mrs Keramos has given us the opportunity for a glimpse of an indisputable public document, which has to be submitted and put to the judgement and opinion of each Member. And that had to be done before the vote. Whether or not the opinion of the Members would change is something about each individual's conscience. However, this is the first time in the parliamentary times that we have concealed an element that we believe is crucial to how each colleague will be placed. So I would like to tell you that even now Mrs Keramos has time before the procedure is closed, before we vote on the hotel article, in 64, to comply with the democratic check and submit all the correspondence that is in place, otherwise we will not be confined to the complaint. We will be able to use whatever parliamentary procedure we can use to show an unacceptable parliamentary practice, which we do not want to become an epidemic in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u277	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u278	Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Madam President. What the JRC had to say about Article 50 has been said all these days and in the committees. The reason now in the movement, so that this abominable, really, article is annulled in practice. The movement has both the right and the power and the will to enforce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u281	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u282	Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard what you have said, ladies and gentlemen. Our view is that the procedure was right as it was, precisely because it had been completed since Tuesday. You have been late, you have raised yourself to create an issue which, in my opinion, especially within these days and on such an important issue, should not be raised in this way. In any case, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the only procedure could be taken into account for the Bureau to withdraw the roll-call vote. Everything else was beyond and contrary to the Rules of Procedure and the Bureau rightly did not allow this debate to develop before. Secondly, the Minister for Education did not exclude, as was said, the plenary, the Members of Parliament and, consequently, the Greek people from information. He considered - and I think that this right has been exercised by the ministers - that the public interest is served through the process followed by...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u284	They don't have it! This from where and where, Mr. Comrade? Each Minister considers what is confidential and what is not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u285	That's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u286	Calm down! Can I finish my thoughts? And then we're open to your criticism. He has therefore informed the rapporteurs of all the parties that he has not concealed this letter to which you refer, read it, studied it and you have an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u287	The answer is 'no'!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u288	If I may, this procedure was followed three days ago. We are today, three days later, and you raise exactly the same matter again. Today, our country today, the government is practically in line with Union law. So, following the letter, you know the details...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u289	You're abolishing the law, Yannaku! That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u290	Mr Colleague, please, let me finish! Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Friend, you're wronging yourself! You have one level, don't spit on others' level! Easy! You have no reason to shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u292	You are undermining your resignation, Mr. Karamanlis's law is abolished!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u293	Everyone has the comfort of speech in here. Don't shout! I listened with patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, let us finish and then you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u295	As regards the substance, and particularly with regard to the SYRIZA colleagues, I would like to remind them that for four years they have constantly recognised the professional equivalence of the graduates of so-called 'private' colleges.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u296	Memorials are over!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u297	And you did this as you were due under Union law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u298	It's the Arvanitopoulos Memorandum! You're giving gifts! Memorials are over! Understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u299	And you and you teachers should respect your role.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u301	For four years, the notices of the AACC... Lies are over! You did something right during your administration and now you want to bump it. You were right about EU law, and that is what the current government will do. For four years the ADP notices during your administration normally recognised the professional equivalence of colleges. That's the reality. Stop creating issues! You can understand that we are living in a difficult time for our country and let us move on, as we did yesterday, with a spirit of unity, to solve problems for the best future of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u302	Don't humiliate education and youth! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will give the floor now to Mr. Booba from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u304	We, Madam President, have the concerns and questions raised for Article 50 in the committee's consultation, because not all of them can get into the same balance. It is also a question of discussing the rules, criteria and conditions for private universities and private colleges, because this is where we think it is a fast track. We have not had the opportunity to know in detail the conditions, the rules with which this is to be adopted. There are many old wounds from the judiciary when it comes to the recognition of certain diplomas. We must not forget that. For Article 16 we have made specific proposals as Greek Solution. It must not be quantitative but also qualitative in research, and we have still not been answered by the Ministry of Education and by the Minister if it is to be made public in the light of publicity rather than of time. Secondly, we have tabled a specific proposal where the evaluation of teachers should be carried out in the systems of Europe and America to the students themselves through an electronic platform, so that the teacher may not create'status', to be rated by the students themselves. Thus, students will have reason, entity and personality and will not be running to party organizations to be heard. Students will be able to assess university teachers as individual personalities. This has been introduced in many European countries and in the United States and has brought tangible, productive results. We hope that our proposal from the Ministry of Education will be heard. On the subject of this so-called educational reform in general, we believe that it is not essential and the problems will once again be put into the universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u306	Madam President, I have asked you for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u307	And because we have closed the cycle, I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, who has not spoken, and we will finish here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u308	Madam President, I have asked you to speak as rapporteur. Don't you give me the floor again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u309	Madam President, thank you very much. We call for the immediate withdrawal of Article 50 and call on the Minister of National Education and Religious Affairs to hide the letter from the IOTAP, which demonstrates the manifestly illegal intention of the Minister, which has systematically concealed the content of a letter, which we are able to know is - and has been from the outset - completely indisputable. Furthermore, there are possibilities to avoid this crime - and I mean by the equalisation of the recognition of diplomas - in the context of existing European legislation. The Minister's even making progress right now. The IOTAP essentially gives the legal tools and arguments to the Minister in order to counteract the supposed need to equilibrium colleges with the universities. What can anyone say? We really hope that this will not become an epidemic, as colleagues have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the debate has been concluded. I gave you the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u311	Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u312	Allow me, my fellow Member, please! The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u313	Mr Lebanese referred to the rapporteurs and lied and this is reflected in the Minutes of the House. I'm so sorry! I was rapporteur, I had requested the documents to the committees and the relevant Minister did not submit them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u314	Madam President, the debate on the bill is closed if you have not understood it. Please, I haven't given you the floor! I didn't give you the floor! There are procedures in this Chamber! I didn't give you the floor! There are procedures and respect them! There is also a regulation that we Members voted on in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u315	I have asked for the floor, we must see the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u316	So I, from this seat, did what I did to observe the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u317	On a point of order, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u318	There's no procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u319	There's no procedure? Do you decide whether there is a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, you are a Vice-President and you know the Rules of Procedure very well, perhaps better than I do. You know that? Don't shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u321	Well, on the point of order I am telling you, you are applying Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, and you had to apply Rule 67 beforehand on the incidental issues. Just because it's more favourable, it's more than 69. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Secondly, we are presided over in the name of the President and do not do what we as Vice-Presidents want. During the roll-call vote, all the Vice-Presidents and the President of the Parliament are here and only the President of Parliament and the Members of Parliament have responsibility for these matters, because in Rule 67 at the end you will see that it says "on objections the House decides" and not whoever or the President-in-Office wants. Otherwise I will interrupt every time, whenever I preside, the procedure, whenever I like, I will say 'Let the Members say what they want' and close the matter on the basis of my own perception. And I think the Change Movement has set a similar logic. And the last thing I want to say is that, as the debate has evolved, it has not evolved on the substance, because we have been discussing it before. The procedure of the law closes with the last vote. It does not close on Tuesday when we decide that Thursday we will make the last vote. The voting process has not started, new issues are being raised, we put them here and we hide the fact. What's the fact? The Minister didn't judge. After all - under the writing, any minister what is it to judge? God? He refused to give the House a document. That's what happened. And our representative and spokesperson of the Change Movement rightly said that this will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure in Rule 69 say that 'after the start of the vote and throughout it there is no debate allowed, even to justify the vote. Comments on the application...’
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u323	The vote had not begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u324	Let me finish. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u325	And please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u326	You always do that. So please, please, let me finish. It says in the Rules of Procedure that 'Remarks on the application of the Rules of Procedure may be made following the announcement of the result of the vote'. And because you call on Rule 67 on the incident, I tell you that it has not been discussed, I did not give you the floor to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u327	That's what we're talking
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u328	So none of the issues you say are raised. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would remind you, Mr President, because you are presided over, that the vote was opened the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u329	The vote on this particular article...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u330	Before we move to the next bill, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they were toured in the exhibition "Bollis of the Greeks, the one-way stations of nearly 200 years old" organized by the institution of the Parliament, twenty-six students and two teachers and two teachers from the 2nd General School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the legislative work, we are now moving on to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior, in accordance with the supplementary agenda. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Election of MPs'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 January 2020 to discuss the draft law at one to two single meetings in principle and on articles. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u331	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u332	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u333	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u334	Madam President, I am sorry and thank you for giving me the floor. On behalf of the Change Movement as a Parliamentary spokesman we object to anti-constitutionalism, the so-called "constitutionality objections" under Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure for a provision of the draft law and I would ask that this debate be held before the opening of the procedure and the speech of the majority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u335	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u336	Here you go, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u337	On behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group we object to anti-constitutionalism under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which we are asking the House to discuss before the start of the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u338	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u339	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. We have heard the request from the two groups and on the basis of the opportunity that you have from the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, we obviously agree to discuss this on our side. We are simply asking for a little time to look at what has been said, for the procedure to be started with the rapporteurs and for us to be able to talk about it in one or two hours, as is done in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u341	No, to God! It can't be fixed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u342	Let the rapporteurs be given the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u343	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u344	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u345	It is well known to the members of the Standing Committee that our party, by our rapporteur, Mrs Liikolis, had warned that in Article 1(2)(b) there is a question and before the beginning of the procedure, my colleague was kind enough to inform the State Secretary responsible. I understand that the majority may need its own mobilisation, because most of them should rise and most of them are New Democracy in this Chamber. Understood. But, Mr President, the debate will take time. You have time to mobilize. There is no other reason to leave the rule, which is when we are discussing objections, to discuss them before the debate in principle under the Rules of Procedure. The possibility of taking it a little later, you have to explain it somehow. The Minister may be gone. Here's the Minister. The rapporteur may be missing. Here's the rapporteur. It's no reason they haven't been mobilized yet. To mobilize while this debate is taking place. Please do not accept Mr Lebanese's request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u346	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u348	Madam President, when the objections to anti-constitutionalism were tabled before the start of the debate on the bill, it would also be legally and politically paradoxical to get into the suggestions on the bill, that is to say, in the debate where the rapporteurs will explain the bill without any objections have been heard about the constitutionality of specific provisions. In this sense, I understand the practical need on the part of the Coupling to request a slight extension, but again I say that it would be absolutely acidifying for the rapporteurs to discuss the whole scheme, to say their views on the bill, for the rapporteur for the Coupling to begin his report without even having regard to what Parliament's views are in relation to the unconstitutional nature of specific provisions. In this sense, standing practice is when objections of anti-constitutionalism are tabled before the start of the debate, that the debate on unconstitutionality be preceded, and then, since the House decides on the constitutionality or otherwise of the specific provisions which are called into question, we should enter into the procedure for the recommendations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u349	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u351	I mean, we need time. We want to take in our hands what he testified to both the Change Movement and SYRIZA. We need a time. I do not know whether or not we should discuss this first or not or whether the rapporteurs should start. I repeat that we need a little time to vote in favour or against the request for unconstitutionality. Is something going to change? Either way, it won't pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u352	Listen to the speakers and conceivers and form an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u353	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Levane, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u355	Madam President, thank you. I am sorry that you both reacted like this, but, in any case, to speed up the process and follow the attitude you have made, I would ask you to calmer tones to discuss the anti-constitutional process now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u356	Ladies and gentlemen, I too think that this is a fair request. We shall now debate, as you raise objections to constitutionality and ask the House to take a decision. We shall therefore apply paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and give first of all the right to speak to you, Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u357	Let me turn to the State Secretary, who has a political past. Mr. Levane, why are you waking us up the past?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u358	Lebanon, not Lebanon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u359	Lebanon. Why are you waking up my past? [[Laughers in the Chamber]] I ask this question, not rhetoric. It's a beautiful song. But I'm asking, why is it that you're losing memory of a new policy and intensely you can't claim that you've suffered. The subject referred to in Article 1(2)(b) has been employed in the country since the 1990s and has been employed in the science of Constitutional Law, not as usual. Because constitutionalists, like doctors and lawyers in general, are in favour of many issues from one to a hundred points of view, and the world knows that. Citizens know that. This case of your article, which prohibits the grant of the first party to a coalition of parties, literally united the theory of Constitutional law, with the exception of two exceptions, concerning colleagues who did not participate in the frontline of the relevant debates on the Constitution whatever the top issue was at any time. I refer to the late Mansis and Tsatsos and to the younger generation: Evangelos Venizelos, George Salarelis, George Kamin, who is here. Let me mention myself. Our teachers, but we too, have written, organized conferences, we have had a very intense debate and almost unanimous debate - and I say again - that this provision is unconstitutional and violates, such as the document we have tabled to Mrs Sakova, contains the provisions raised. First and foremost, the provision of popular sovereignty. Secondly - it is a point made by Mr Kamine very correctly - the provision of Article 37 in relation to the mandate to form a government and the exploratory orders, the provisions relating to voting, its characteristics, equality and the equivalence of voting, the electoral law, what we have discussed, ladies and gentlemen, for decades now, on articles 51.3, 52 and 54 of the Constitution. Again, not because one scientist said alpha and the other said beta, but literally almost unanimously, we had all stood against this regulation when it existed. When did it exist? The law of Kouvela - Mitsotakis. When was it abolished? The law of Scandalides. I'd ask him to take the floor. When did he come back? With the Pavlopoulou law. Repeat this arrangement, also bearing in mind the entire route. To achieve what? It is a photography of this provision of possible party partnerships that we do not like. But 'we don't like' has nothing to do with constitutions or institutions. It is about party tactics and electoral predictions that lie outside the institutions and outside the Constitution. As you will say 'the Scientific Service of the House of Parliament at that time', you will say things - something you must say, if you insist and do not withdraw - I think that anyone who reads today's opinion of the Scientific Office of the Parliament is recorded in a way, of course, particularly noble, because you are outside the institutions. It tells you that this issue has been raised, that it records you scientists who have expressed views on almost all of this page and - and this should have given you some thought - and the decisions of the Ice Arena, which this distinction between a coalition of parties and a single party does not accept it, nor, of course, do they deny it. Because they have never examined when the candidates for the combinations were declared. It is not such a matter that the supreme court decides, but it speaks of individual parties, whether they are coalitions or literally self-evident parties. One is the relative characterisation. Why are you violating the Constitution? What are you afraid of? What do you have in mind? We'd be interested in hearing it. What are you afraid of on the basis of the data of the political system, as they have today? Do you want to rule out a partnership of ours with you? Do you want to rule out a partnership of ours with SYRIZA? Do you want to rule out - because we are already a party coalition - our own premium if we get over you in the next elections? Tell us, let's all laugh together. Because it really is for laughter this arrangement, when all these years have passed, was written so much theoretical material, arguments were exchanged at conferences. I remember one at my own university, with the top of the then science of Constitutional Law present and live to support this provision. Please. It is not possible for your rapporteur, your representative, yourself, to support things that you know very well that are beyond the institutions. Madam President, we are asking the House to reject this regulation and to understand both the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative and the Ministers that it is really necessary to have voted, before entering the debate on the anti-constitutionality of this regulation, because it is also in a sense the top of a practical wickedness of the policy that has been condemned. And those who want to continue it, coming up to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u361	Mr Loverdo, I do not know what Mr Lebanon reminds you - I particularly like him - but I think that this arrangement should remind us of the worst nightmares in the political system since 1950. I'll tell you why. I fully agree with you on the basis of your constitutionality. That's right. It is reckoned that the national Parliament is a leading democratic process - everyone says, there is no writing, there is no theory of Constitutional Law, there is no man of legal science who considers what I am saying to you - but it is also a state-run operation. And at least in the provisions of such an approach to the electoral system, we should be more serious and wiser. And keep the second, the'softest'. Because we are talking about an electoral system - and this is indeed the scandalous, unacceptable provision of Article 1(2)(b) - I should say that if something goes wrong in this Chamber, it is the theory and the view of the top-ranking teachers of the Constitutional Law, the Master of Mansis, who, in fact, has honoured Parliament as President of the Scientific Council at that time, with Mr Pantellis. So let us see what legal science says and what the political arguments are, because it is unacceptable and undemocratic, and from a legal point of view, this provision. It is directly affecting both the Constitution and the basic democratic principle. So listen. Why are you bringing this provision, Ministers? Is it possible to withstand criticism - will you then see, when I tell you the rulings of the courts - when a combination of parties with 61% of the Greek people can get fewer votes than a party that takes 32% and 33%? Is that possible? And will this Greek Parliament, the Greek political system, the Greek society, the rule of law? It seems that when you legislate, you do not look to the west, but to the east, to those despised and despised political systems, which only concern them are the dominant politics and exclusion in every way, legal and non-legal, of other political forces to understand the government's mortals. And that is what you are doing now for parties coalitions. The basic principle of the electoral system you are proposing, the enhanced analogue, can move to the limits of tolerance on the part of the political system and the constitutional authority - that is what the courts at least say - since Article 54 enables the joint legislator to define the terms of the electoral game. As Vaggelis Venizelos says in his letter, ‘This power to adopt Article 54(1) to the joint legislator is in white? Should not the regulation that the joint legislator will make apply and all the basic functions of the democratic society?'. And says Vangelis Venizelos, “What are the principles? People's sovereignty, the representative system, the parliamentary authority, which requires the government's dependency on Parliament's confidence and the Parliament's confidence in the vote of Greek citizens and their respective seats. And, indeed, this principle of reflection is equality of vote." So let's go to why you want now, save and well, to exclude party coalitions from this possibility that they have to understand government power. He's a critic, says the Saliris, an anti-constitutional distinction between independent parties and coalitions. It despises the political system, directly insults the Constitution and breaks down all the institutions of a rule of law and a favoured state. Read today the article by George Salarius. He says nothing different from what Manesh said as the chairman of the Scientific Council. So here's what he said. Indeed, that's what Mr. Loverd said. In all the electoral systems - from the time of Kouvela, the amendment of the law of Scandalidis, the law of Pavlopoulou - on the issue of dealing with the election of parties, philosophy and logic are the same as that of the electoral system that you are proposing today. It's just the same photocopy, like you put a carbon on it, and you copied it. I'll tell you right after what the courts said about this provision. He said, therefore, that Aristovoulou Menesis as president of the Scientific Council to the Greek Parliament for these laws, for the Kouvela Law, the following: "Diversification can result in the technical acquisition of a parliamentary majority. Such a modulation of the election result is an alteration and distortion of the popular verdict and an infringement of Article 52 of the Constitution, which protects the free and undisputed manifestation of the election will as an expression of popular sovereignty, which is the foundation of the constitution. Article 1(2) of the Constitution’. It adds the following: "Others, such a possibility would be tolerable not only to the principle of popular sovereignty, but also to the principle of equality of vote, and also to the principle of equal treatment and equal opportunities of political parties and their right to define their electoral policy in general". By saying these, what did Manesh then invoke as chairman of the Scientific Council? Ad hoc case-law of the Court of Justice, i.e. the Supreme Special Court, the numbers 33, 34, 35 and 36 of the 1990 judgments and the number 111 of 1994. And Menesis himself invoked it. He said, precisely, that it is not possible for judicial bodies to have powers to control on what terms and conditions the parties may cooperate if they have joint programmes or if their cooperation is reasonable or appropriate. These issues, Mr President-in-Office, are political, together with other issues, taken into account in the first place and exclusively by the people. He is the only one responsible for determining the power, the correlation of the political forces, but also for delivering what must be done to the autonomous party or to the coalition of parties. Article 1(2) of the Constitution. Who else had agreed with Menesis then, Madam President? I'll say it to be recorded in the Minutes. Demetris Tsatsos agreed, who ragged the Kouvella law with a terrible opinion. Do you rank him on the left-hand side of the left-hand horn of the political system? Of course not. Vangelis Venizelos had drawn up an opinion on the same law, where he said that he was directly opposed to the Constitution, as well as Chrysanogonos who characterises the relevant arrangements not only emphatically anti-constitutional but - listen to the phrase - and dangerous to democratic normality. We're going to the Pavlopoulou law, which has the same logic of increased analogy. There is the great work of the pastor's Papadimitriou, as well as Anthopoulos and Xeros. You know them very well. The big question is why you choose what you choose, Mr Ministers. This is both a political question and a legal question. You get your answer with a post yesterday by George Sotielis. Listen to what he says: “Why do they, as do previous governments, dare to vote for such an anti-constitutional arrangement? The explanation is simple but also painful, because here, as has already been pointed out to all tones from the theory, there is a serious lack of judicial protection." And it explains below and says: "Any electoral system, however unconstitutional it may be, is important that we go to elections with it, because the intervention of the Supreme Courts can never have a preventive character, i.e. a condom, only a repressive character". So we will go to elections, and the looting will not have any limits and will premium what the government or the party that is in power every time the party that is close to power and will then come to the highest special court to say that the order or order is unconstitutional. However, the damage to politics and the law has been done, because the elections have been done with this electoral law that the court retrospectively judges. In fact it says the supreme special court that such a regulation leaves almost no room for political conditions to be made to allow the legal equivalence of vote, both in relation to the definition of the electoral regions and the distribution of seats. Listen to the absurd, Minister, that you are a young man. Can a party with 36.5% get 60% of seats. And what's the absurdity? Come on, the bonus will get it! Why would he take three seats out of four from one quadruple, while it is a second or third party? Do you realize the irrationality of the system? Let's say, in my home country Carditsa, which is quadruple, no matter what the first party is, this party that pan-Hellenicly takes the bonus, will also take the seats in a quadruple and five-sided district. It doesn't have limits, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't work! I should like to close, Madam President, by saying this: Mr Loverdos said - and I fully agree - that this is not a minority or majority view of the theory of Constitutional law. It is homogeneous, unanimous of everyone, of all constitutionalists and theorists of Constitutional Law, on whatever side of the political theory or ideological structure, and if anyone places them. She's flattered and unanimous. So, if Parliament is closing the eyes and ears today, it is suffering from deafness and blindness in the face of a timeless view of constitutional and political theory, particularly in relation to views of stable monstrous constitutionalists that were all their disciples and with respect and awe to them, if today we are also destroying political theory, political science, particularly constitutionalism, I think it will be a further claustrophe, a miserable error for both the Constitution and democracy. I would like the Ministers to read a little more carefully and the opinion of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. The intercession is done with courtesy, but it's done! To read also the case-law of the decisions I have told you. Let us not continue, Madam President - and I am closing down with a phrase - to expel political citizens and especially the young people who are the engine of society and of history. It will be another shame on the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much. Will the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u363	Aren't the rivals gonna talk first?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u364	I think we should go like this with the parties... Would you like to take the floor, Mr. Highlands?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u365	Of course, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u366	I don't have a problem. Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the request for unconstitutionalism is that the opposition parties at last woke up, because in the committee at least what they had to deliver against the electoral law, which is currently brought by the New Democracy Government, was only a general criticism of the seven months of government of the country by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It was a general criticism without focusing in particular on the issues, which are raised in theory the great and constitutional aspects of the electoral law. We are coming today with great pleasure, I say here that we are finally having a debate on the same subject of law. It is therefore referred to by both the Change Movement and by SYRIZA and SYRIZA and the Change Movement, the question of the constitutionality of Article 1, paragraph 2, second indent, and here the views of purely constitutionalists, of various constitutionalists, on general issues of Constitutional Law, which have to do with the provisions on popular sovereignty, the provisions of Article 37 of the Constitution on exploratory mandates and on equal treatment for vote. These are issues which, on the other hand, our side, which we can put, are to the forefront of the thinking and functioning of this electoral law. Furthermore, we must say that - unfortunately or happily - and in the area of constitutional law constitutionalists are often divided more from the division of political parties. It is well known that the battles that are being fought by constitutionalists, when a matter arises and how one tries to overcome one another’s ideas. Here are various articles, particularly from Mr Lappa, to bring us here and read us in fragmentary texts of constitutionalists. I could also bring you various articles from Mr Alivizatos on the contrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u368	Get one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u369	Bring us an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u370	Let me get you guys to read. Recently, yesterday I read an article against the mere analogy of the constitutionalist Mr. Alivizatos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u371	Not for the simple analogue, for what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u372	Listen to me. Listen to them now. Now you're gonna listen. An article by Mr. Alivizatos at "KATHMERINI", read it. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, we have to say that the New Democracy has not hidden the principle that it is in favour of electoral drafts in favour of governance, of ensuring the stability of policy and governance, and that we are firmly opposed to the systems of mere proportionality. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So, in view of the safeguarding of government stability you know that the principle and equivalence of voting and equal treatment of political parties with consistent case-law, not only of the electorate but also of the highest special court, which has considered that the most unfavourable treatment of coalitions in relation to independent parties is not contrary to the Constitution. Indeed, in the bill, in the minutes of the Parliament's Scientific Service, in the 1990 election law, under number 40/31-10-1990, the macarite, the late Aristo-Boogulou Manesi, objected to that solution. However, there were opposing views of Georgios Koumantou and Emigrant Spiliotopoulos. Furthermore, the draft law introduces, in fact, the maximum possible guarantee of electoral justice and equal treatment of the participations of the combinations, and provides for the exclusive competence of Section I of the Ice Bay Section to decide irrevocably when declaring the combinations with the nature of a party independently or coalition. This regulation is not unknown in Greek electoral law. It is the adoption of the regulation of Law 3636/2008, which in turn adopted the regulation by Law 1907/1990, in which the regulation of paragraph 7, Article 132, of Royal Decree 10/12/1958 was effectively copied. The Greek Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to other constitutions of other European countries, does not define the electoral system, leaves the joint legislature with the power to choose every time the most appropriate and probably appropriate of the circumstances of the electoral system, taking into account the current political circumstances. For example, the case-law, which has already been mentioned here by colleagues from the Representation, is mentioned. The legislator has broad freedom of action when defining the electoral system, but not unlimited, because it is delimited by the supreme special court, as I have already mentioned in detail in the individual objections you have raised, by the constitutional principles governing voting, but also by the increased formal rules of law. So the Scientific Committee itself now wants you to say that it brings us some legislative improvements, which it recommends to become serological, and that does not refer to unconstitutional issues. You translate that there is a problem of constitutionality in the specific article you refer to in the coalition of parties. There's no way. The case-law - and part of the theory - is in favour of this choice. And so your proposal to reject both the proposal of the Change Movement and the proposal of the SYRIZA should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u373	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u374	I am going to paraphrase a well-known and symbolic song and ask for an ex ante apologies: "The hypocrisy has become worthy!" That's the conversation we're having.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u375	"You're pretending, I tell you, you're pretending."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u376	I'm either hypocrisy or hypocrisy, if you want it in the cleansing room, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u377	Leave the falsification of lyrics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Scandalidis, can we continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u379	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much. There is an entire debate on constitutionality. There is a debate from all the parties on the system of elections, on the equivalence and equivalence of vote. Well, aren't you ashamed? There is an election system from '74 and then I say, so that I don't go back to record the popular will, as expressed in the elections, regardless of how and what? Tell us one. Tell us which party, except in 1974 that again with a camel system, then Constantine Karamanlis took the government with over 50%, what other party that governs all these years took 51% or 50.01% of the votes of those Greeks who voted? Not to say that they govern all parties based on the population of Greece by 22% to 28% and have parliamentary self-reliance all these years. Conclusion, first of all, I'm saying. Hypocrisy. Hypocrisy in her majesty. You're minority governments. You have ventilating systems. You all deny - and SYRIZA who makes the beam - the simple analogue. And simply proportional means simply proportional, that is, whatever votes take, so many seats get to the three hundred. It does not mean a 3% plaque that cuts out a large percentage of what they vote, no matter what parties vote. It doesn't mean bonuses, much worse. All, but all parties have so far used systems depending on how it suits them, regardless of whether they are shouting. The New Democracy was known. It's urban democracy, you see. Fifty bonus seats? You are stealing the vote of the Greek people. Thirty seats, as PASOK and SYRIZA say? You're stealing thirty seats. How do we do it? This is your democracy, even civil democracy. You make monster systems sometimes. We've lived before. Not that there is no way to make it simple analogue. If the system suits and it's made all right, it can do just proportionally. It will not solve the problems, but at least stop this hypocrisy, fight about the Constitution. When we say that is equal to the vote of all Greeks, what does that mean? Second, cyberdynamicity. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not cyberdynamicity, it's the stability of the system, so it's not disturbed. There has never been a problem with forming governments. Besides, there is such a strategic identification to all of you, which has been expressed in the memorandum and in foreign policy and everywhere, which will find a solution, as the solution has been found to govern PASOK on the vast right, which, when we said it could be done, you were on the tiles. So all the systems that you bring this in the broad sense of the term...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u381	Together, didn't we rule?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u382	We never ruled together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u383	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u384	Look, if you want to interrupt, you can do it. But do you want me to go on? I'll say more after that, and it won't be of any interest to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u385	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u386	Can you bring us a system that you tell us is proportionate and you steal fifty seats? Where to where is that analogous? And PASOK says thirty, and SYRIZA says thirty. Gives it a chance...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u387	No, we didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u388	Let go, Mr. Spirtzi, we know. It says, up to 10% of seats may be given. Ten percent means thirty seats. That's what your law says. Secondly, 3% means nine Members. There's no way a party that gets 2.90%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u389	You say the plaque.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u390	The plaque. What's that? Isn't it stealing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u391	Then New Democracy steals not only fifty seats, it steals eighty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u392	If you want to have a dialogue, we can do it, but it's not television here! So I keep going. Let me say hypocrisy on the one hand and leave it on the other and about democracy, etc., to speak with open paper. When you rob the votes of other parties, you call this democracy. When it suits you, you go in one-party, and when you're not interested in it, you bring many strange shapes. They've seen monsters and signs of our eyes. Previously, to elect a member of the JRC wanted thirty-five thousand votes, both parties wanted ten thousand votes. How do you say that, defending democracy, etc.Huh? What rulership? You'll find them along the way. That's what it looks like. And when the system was "haired" a little, you have all voted for the memos. So this debate, in our view, has a great deal of hypocrisy. We, in interpreting what you are supposed to believe, the vote as a whole, believe that it is all unconstitutional, not just where you focus, on coalitions and separate parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. It's 13.15 and we haven't even started the bill. I think, however, that most of us here today have secured a place in the '20.00' central news bulletin. I think that this is the objective whenever this is the case in serious matters or at the least serious, with requests for unconstitutionality, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u395	That's insulting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, I am very sorry to say this, but in this Parliament today we are going to discuss and vote for the new electoral law, namely how the Greek citizen will vote, but no one is going to think of the political system at all in the last few years. We should be more concerned about that. Do you know why we've devalued the political system? For what you're doing here. And you know what you're doing here today? You are hypocritical about not such essential issues and you agree with all the rest. So today the Change Movement and SYRIZA disagree on constitutionality, while agreeing on other big and huge issues. You agree on Greek-Turkish, you agree on the memorials, the Prespes, the great ones, and you do what you disagree - and well - on such issues about the show, about communication, about the raisin in the "20.00", because that's what you're most interested in. Mr. Lappa, you're so tired, you know what? We are not all here, either constitutionalists or lawyers, nor is the world watching us. If, therefore, the Members are invited to give a solution to these issues, if something is constitutional or unconstitutional, the voice of reason, our voice, the voice of the Greek Solution is also shouting at the debate on the Revision of the Constitution and from the first day we entered here the need for a constitutional court to give the solution. We call it, and we call it. Nobody listens. Voice voice in the wilderness! Closed ears! He suffers from deafness and blindness, said his colleague SYRIZA, the Greek Parliament. No, she suffers from hypocrisy, abundant. Hypocrisy is over! Our minds and reflections should be about how we will be able to recover, I repeat, as a political system our credibility to the Greek people, to come again to vote and to have 80%, 90% and 100% participation and not 40%, and we can barely bring them to the poll. This is the big problem of the lack of credibility of the political system. Now, if he will vote in favour or against unconstitutionalism, after the process goes on, what does it matter? It's going to come out. What do you want us to vote for? Yeah, pro against, huh? What do you want? Whatever you want! What's the point? We are in favour of mere analogy. If you did what we do, the decline in the political system would not have come and the country would not have been destroyed. Because we always put the national interest above the interest of the party, above the interests of Velopoulos, the Greek Solution and any member of the Greek Solution. We put the national interest on top. Good or bad - and I say badly, of course, because you have a great responsibility to bring the country into this situation and economic and geopolitically, both in our relations and in Greek-Turkish, in everything - the country needs to be governed and not a mess. So you worshipers of simple analogy ruled by the bonus. Now all of a sudden, you want to hand over a mess, you're interested in a mere analogy. Decide what you want. We do not vote on the basis of our own interests, we always vote on the basis of national interests. This is something else that we will say and develop in our speeches when it comes to discussing the bill. I hope the new electoral law will begin soon. As far as the rest is concerned, consider why Greek citizens have turned their backs on us all. If you continue to do what you are doing here, unfortunately we will also lose those who have left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u397	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, every electoral law with a reinforced analogue directly violates the Greek Constitution, as any such electoral law violates the principles of equality of vote and proportionality, as is of course the representative principle. Decades now - what a strange thing! - all elections in this place are held with a reinforced analogy. So decades now, all the elections have been held by electoral laws that violated and continue to violate the Constitution. Perhaps - I agree - with the current electoral law brought by the New Democracy for a vote to override it, to go beyond the outdated or all the thresholds so far. However, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and KINAL, forgive me for saying so, but now you remember? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u399	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Janakopoulos, has requested the floor. What's the point, unconstitutionalism or another reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u400	For unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, because you have come now, we have not completed the debate on unconstitutionality. They spoke the word and the opposite, and now all the parliamentary representatives are speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u402	It was just about the change we made. Please, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, it would be useful to remind the person elected by the New Democracy, Mr Ypsilant, who claimed that the issues which are being discussed here today in relation to the anti-constitutionality of the provision concerning bonuses for parties coalitions were not put to the committee, that they were discussed thoroughly, that they were also raised on the side of SYRIZA, as well as on the side of other parties. I therefore think it was reasonable, since the overwhelming arguments were not heard during the debate in committee, to raise an issue of unconstitutionality and before the House to decide, in any case, whether Parliament should decide. He also spoke about the New Democracy's rival over allegedly 'open' issues of major theoretical, legal and constitutional interest and called for the dividing of constitutionalists on the issue we are discussing today. Let me inform you that, of course, in Constitutional Law and in general in the legal universe there are too many issues that divide legalists, which raise very deep and important theoretical discussions. However, the issue that we are discussing here today, namely whether it is constitutionalisation or the hierarchy of an independent party, the assessment - rather - of an independent party's position as stronger to get the bonus against a party coalition, is not one of the 'open' legal and theoretical issues. It is an issue that has been closed both in legal theory and in case-law. No one considers it open, except for you and your colleagues in the New Democracy, who will vote against the objection of unconstitutionality. And the reasons for which this issue has been closed have made you quite clear from the position of the speaker, Mr Lappa, who has made you abstract a number of theoretical interventions, those which you considered to be fragmentary, from top constitutionalists, who, while having disagreed on what you can imagine, agree, that this provision and the fact that the bonus cannot be given to a coalition of parties if this coalition of parties does not have as the average of the parties that participate most in the second party, there is no disagreement between either of these constitutionalists. So I say again that this is not an open issue, it is an issue that has been definitively closed, and you insist that it be maintained for reasons which are obviously related to the party feasibility you want to serve and the fact that you think that this might favour your resignation in the event of an election battle, where you will be confronted with a coalition of parties. But in order for the citizens to understand what we are talking about and what you are about to vote on, I will give you a simple example, which Mr Lappas has also mentioned. Let us have a coalition of parties that receives a 60% rate in the elections. If the second party receives 31%, say New Democracy, it will mean that the party that received 31% will get the bonus and will not get the bonus the party that received 60%. So, here we are dealing with issues which are not, if you want, and so complex, that we call them'shortly constitutional interest', are issues of simple reason and I think it conflicts with the simple logic and the sense of law and democracy of the citizens what you are trying to promote with this bill. It is, in fact, a pity for the Minister, who has a long course in Greek political life, from different meteorologies, today, with this provision actually deleting not only politically but also at the level of sensitivity of his past. I would therefore like to conclude by closing that all the position of the anti-corruption on the part of the New Democracy was therefore a completely different issue from what was raised. Because he did not say any legal arguments in relation to the alleged constitutionality of the provision, because there is no legal argument that could support the constitutionality of this provision, he chose to speak of something completely different, whether the systems of the enhanced analogue or the majority systems are consistent or incompatible with the constitutional logic, with the legal logic of the Greek Constitution. We're not talking about this here. I'm sorry to break your argument, but the point that we raised is nothing to do with what you have answered. You told us that there was a case-law saying that the enhanced analogy is consistent with the Greek Constitution. Yes, sir. We can talk for hours if this is the case or if that is not the case. There could, in fact, be divisions between the legal systems, there could be theoretical discussions, anyway there is case law, various constitutionalists have been placed differently on this matter. We have seen that, for example, Mera25, or on behalf of the JRC, feel that any form of electoral system, apart from simply proportional, is unconstitutional, there is an open debate. But I remind you. That's not what we're talking about. You can make your point, but perhaps in another debate, with other speakers who will raise this issue. Here we expect the New Democracy to respond and even give us a legal argument, because the provision that separates the coalition from the autonomous party, in relation to the bonus, is a constitutional and such argument, unfortunately, we have not heard. It will, in fact, be sad to continue to insist on this logic of divisions, such as 1990 and 2008. Finally we have 2020, it's time for you to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bad habit in Parliament, every time we talk about a very specific subject, to make a more general political confrontation about the general strategy and philosophy of the parties, which are democratic, which is undemocratic and so on. For the electoral law and its substance we will discuss today and tomorrow, with all the will we will have, and will present each other's positions. I would like to talk about the specific provision that we have put forward the unconstitutionality, which has explained in such a clear way and in a very detailed manner. Because I do not claim any laurels of a constitutional nature, but I have a relative political experience, I will, above all, speak of the spirit of the Constitution, and if not the letter of the constitution, which has been analysed and I do not need to repeat it. Other colleagues have said so, and other parties, when they made their position on the individual points other than genealogies. First of all, for the history of this article, I received it when I made the electoral law in 2003 by the Kouvela law. He was abolished, he came back with Mr. Pavlopoulou when he was Minister of the Interior in 2009, in 2008 - I do not remember exactly - and now, following the new proposal made by the New Democracy, in our Constitution. My opinion is very simple. Since post-population, the multi-party, parliamentary culture has been defined in our country in a clear way, without notes, without asterisks, and without any opportunity to ignore the substance of the culture, which is representative democracy. It was therefore defined without prejudice and the role of political parties and consequent programmes. The national elections have a goal - I imagine we all agree on it - that the citizen is called upon to place a more electoral programme and what way of governing he chooses. So the essence of this anti-constitutional provision is, Minister, that it selects a political formation with a specific political programme with a majority and your law comes to abolish the majority and to show a minority as a government. Why? Isn't the party coalition scheduled? Metelelogically there is the possibility of making any adjustments. This is where the pre-election cooperation of parties is essentially forbidden in any case. And that's undemocratic. It's a game with democracy that drugizes institutions. It is impossible for me that I am not a constitutionalist to think that the spirit of the Constitution was another programme to vote - because the people are now voting for programmes, they are aware - and another government to come up with it because the bonus will go there. For the usefulness of the bonus we have today and tomorrow to discuss and whether there should be and where there should be. So I think, Minister, that you should withdraw this provision. You have the ability to do so, because the spirit of the Constitution is blatantly violated, except for its formal unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u406	Mr Lebanese has the floor, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Scandalides is right that we must not escape the issue of unconstitutionalism, but I cannot resist. Mr. Loverdos made a genius with Mr. Livano, the State Secretary. It was not understandable to anyone outside this Chamber, but I would like you to reply to us in this two-day debate on the position you will take in the whole of the electoral law - and which you have already taken in public - with regard to what Mr Scandalidis has proposed, there have been elections with the Scandalidis law - for the Bonus I mean, not on the issue of constitutionality - and you are now fighting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u408	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u409	That's right. The other issue, then, is the return of the genius to Mr Livano. I also think that Mr Pafilis was right by saying what he said with his songs, that you are basically not here sincere, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, because you are simply coming to speculate with this debate, as you are doing elsewhere. I think that you have rightly raised, Mr Loverdos, as at other times, the issue of the opinions of constitutionalists that we all honour from the past. Mr Janakopoulos was wrong here to say that Mr Ypsilante did not oppose the arguments legally, instead he referred to constitutionalists who are quite the opposite. So it is a respectable view that you have taken. We would also like you to respect the views of the other constitutionalists on the basis of what Mr Ypsilantis said. At the same time, I would like to remind you that both Mr Voloudakis and Mr Raikos have given an opinion in this direction. You have referred to it, indeed, but Mr Janakopoulos did not understand it for that reason. Now, as far as the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament is concerned, which practically resolves the matter and says why the different treatment of coalitions, Mr Scandalides, is constitutionally unacceptable. It stems from the constitutionally evacuated principles of governance and the possibility of deviating from the principle of equal treatment of parties within the framework of the authorisation granted by the Constitution to the joint legislator and shaping the electoral system. This is to be presumed, not to read exactly the part of the 2008 opinion, which also refers to 2004, to the other opinion that existed. On the substance of the matter, however, now, because I think that the legal arguments on both sides have been heard and the majority of the House, as laid down in the rule, will decide. With regard to the political arguments, I think that here Mr Janakopoulos made another mistake in the way he developed his arguments, but he also used the selective memory to refer only to what was brought about by him. On the one hand, he told us how wrong politically, not legally, this is the thought and the proposal of the government, but he forgot to tell us, because in 2015 twice - and the second time you had the time to change it - you did not change this anti-constitutional provision. If, indeed, you thought this provision was unconstitutional, you had all the time to change it and not to use it when you were at the time to become a government in September 2015. But that is why, ladies and gentlemen, you will have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u410	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u411	When did we use this device?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u412	What provision? This provision does not apply!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u413	This is for parties coalitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u414	Please, come on, Mr. Lebanon, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u415	There was the law of Pavlopoulou. There was. Did you see? You didn't even know that. Expose. There was the Pavlopoulou law, you did not change it at the time when you were attracted and you will have two whole days to apologize, because you are mocking the Greek people again. Just sturgeon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u416	In 2016 we changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u417	That's what you did in 2016. Now, as far as the other part is concerned, there is a logic in what Mr Scandalides said. But since we did not start our political, democratic life today, Mr Scandalidis, we have an experience, I will tell you the following: The previous coalition government we saw in the country, for example, was between the masters and the ladies of SYRIZA and Mr Kammenos, the ANELs. This is precisely the procedure that the government is trying to stop, rather than natural coalitions, which lead to democratic aberrations and substantially widen the risks to the country and to Greek citizens. This is precisely what we are trying to protect, and this provision - of course will be decided by Parliament - is in the right direction, mainly because we want governance and at the same time we are in favour of programming democracy. That is to say not to change those parties which promise election, post-election, just to become government and to rejoice in power. In this context, the New Democracy Government, the Party, the New Democracy Party, and Mr Loverdos, indeed, if you are there, and have as a party coalition that majority, I think you will be a government next time. But let's get there first and talk about it because we're a little further away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u418	You're not honored by what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u419	We, therefore, today as a social and political majority majority of what we are trying to do, and I think in the seven months we have achieved it, with the culmination of the proposal for the new President of the Republic, is to move across the range of democratic space, to address, to discuss and ask for the cooperation of people from all democratic space, because the problems are high. We want our democracy to be shielded. We want our democratic civilisation to be strong. We want growth for all Greek women and all Greeks. We want the prospect that we have started to give. And we believe that, precisely, this electoral law with these provisions and its purity serves precisely this pursuit of us and this plan. So we also consider legal and political that there is no question of unconstitutionality, and I imagine that the majority of this House will welcome this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u420	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Alimos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President. There are several arguments that we can say. There are political arguments, there are legal arguments. We'll start with the legal argument first. The subject is open. It has never been judged on the substance. Never a party coalition took the first place to be examined definitively in the highest special court. In 2012- eve of the June 2012 elections -- the coalition very well said it is a single party to claim the 50 seats bonus. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u422	What were we supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u423	You did well. I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u424	That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u425	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u426	What now? We're a coalition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u427	You say you're a single party to claim the bonus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u428	You've done it. The matter has been overdue. The Parliamentary Representatives have completed. Let the Minister also speak, because there may be too many speakers to sign up and we should not have time to do so. That's why we've put two days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u429	You know, the bonus won't get a party coalition, not a party that has the word 'conspiracy'. Don't worry. Secondly, and the opinion of the Scientific Council of the Parliament of 1990 with the disagreement of the late Manisi - it was discussed again in 2008, because the same debate was held again with the same arguments - he said, Mr Koumantos and Mr Spiliotopoulos: "The unfavourable treatment of coalitions commonly used in Greek electoral law has been judged in accordance with the Constitution". The Scientific Service of the Parliament in 2008, again for the discussion of the law then Pavlopoulou, said: "The arrangement can be considered to be constitutionally tolerated in the sense of differentiation between a party and a coalition of parties as an expression of stability and the possibility of diverging from the principle of equal treatment of parties, as part of the authorisation granted by the Constitution". Grand Special Court ruling - 2010 - on the notorious equality of vote. By the way, I'm glad you didn't plead unconstitutionality for the bonus. That's weird. We've been waiting for her. "Equality has a specific feature. Each voter shall have one single vote and shall not be given multiple votes to the same voter. Each elector shall vote in one single constituency. Each vote has equal legal power. The principle of equivalence of the vote means that the vote of each voter shall have the same influence on the formation of the election result and therefore the voting power itself, i.e. the same number of valid ballots, shall have the same influence on the formation of the final election result.’ Recent Decision of 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u430	That's right, but it's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u431	No, I'm talking about the bonus equality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u432	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u433	Indeed, there are different legal opinions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u434	You're answering other questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u435	You're hasty, ladies and gentlemen. To finish first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u436	You don't listen, I guess. You're used to not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u437	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u438	Political argument. We know how you envision the coalitions. We know. You did so in 1989 and 1990, when you came down with PASOK in the one-sided regions, to cut the self-reliance from Constantine Mitsotakis. That's what you did then. That's exactly what you've done. You envision opportunistic coalitions with the sole purpose of not giving the country government. That's why you voted for the simple analogue in the national elections, so you voted for the simple analogue to self-government, because you're glad to see it coming! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Because the Change Movement for the unconstitutionality of distinguishing coalitions is getting worse, I would like to say that it won three elections under the Kouvela Act in 1993, in 1996 and in 2000. Didn't it bother then? Didn't all the interior ministers who existed know it, but did they? Didn't you feel the unconstitutionality? Didn't you read what the late Manesh said then, what did the constitutionalists, whom I deeply appreciate and all those who you mentioned? You changed it in 2004, fourteen years later, last day before the elections were held on 7 March 2004.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u439	But we changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u440	Incidentally, unconstitutional, as we say about the 1989 election law, was the exclusion of the remaining one-sided regions from the second division in the 1989 law. That was unconstitutional at the time. In closing, the government brought a line - line, word - the law that applied in 2008. The rapporteur was the current President of the Republic of Prokopis Pavlopoulou, who until a few days ago - has been grateful for his work, for his term of office - you have publicly come out and supported him to be re-elected. The anti-democrat who made an anti-constitutional coup? This man recommended the law and you come today and say that his provisions, the provisions that he brought in 2008, are unconstitutional. Hey, you democrats cannot support an anti-constitutional President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u441	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure has been concluded on the question of constitutionality. Please accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism. [[Accepting opposition to unconstitutionality]] It is clear that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not arise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't complain. I have been given the opportunity to say this once again how this is considered. It is judged by a combination of provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please see Articles 102, 69(4) and 71(3). That's how it comes out and that's the point. We're on. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic record system of speakers has been opened. It will be maintained until the end of the speech and of the second rapporteur, Mr Spirtzi. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ypsilantis, has the floor for 15 minutes. Here, Mr. Highlands, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u442	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me to begin my report on what I have been told about regarding my non-legislative position on the objection of unconstitutionality. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, should we stop better?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u443	I'm sorry, Mr. Highlands. Wait a minute. Please, because, indeed, the legislation is important, those who are not patient in the Chamber, please come by the Chamber. Those who remain inside, please respect the speakers, because you must follow and what the rapporteurs and the ministers must also know what the objections are, what positive and negative and possibly make legislative improvements. Carry on, Mr. Phelanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u444	My laconic position on your objections was also on the legal and theoretical points of view which have been expressed so far and on political reality. Of course, the majority vote of the House also proved to be the unfoundedness of your objections. Ladies and gentlemen, by proposing the bill for the election of Members from the New Democracy in the House of Parliament, I have to introductoryly clarify those aspects that led our Government at the time to promote a new electoral law. First of all, the New Democracy serves liberal democracy for free and peaceful coexistence through participation, consensus and majority principle. It is the only party in Greece who has sought in the almost half century its existence and function, sincere cooperation with others, so that the country can be governed. He sought co-operation governments, but... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I think that the House's building is more quiet than the Chamber of Deputies and does not honor any of us. I can leave already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u445	You're welcome. The most noise comes - from what I have seen - from colleagues in the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u446	And here is the democraticity - if you like - some people who only want to create 'anti-constitutional' situations are shouting and speaking and shouting. And when there's a feeling that some things need to be heard, they talk to each other so that their voices can be stronger. That's the culture that's here! I'm afraid so. And that's what we're showing to the schools that are watching us up here, that there's no elementary courtesy, politics, and true. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Highlands, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u448	So, for the younger people to know, the New Democracy has so far sought co-operation that was still mortal, but it is also the one that, because of its national, responsible attitude, it has never adopted the simple analogue as the appropriate electoral system in our country. In the recent elections, the Greek people give their self-reliance to the New Democracy, which has been the case for the first time since the crisis, thus enabling us to implement our pre-election commitment to change the electoral law, which the SYRIZA - ANEL government has introduced with simple analogous features, a system that, with all the calculations, would bring about the political life of the place, are paralytic situations for the operation of the state and a framework that is forbidden to form a government. After all, SYRIZA - ANEL's simple analogue option sought at a time when its collapse began, since it had been elected and ruled twice with the bonus system of fifty seats for the first party. Today, he uses it as an impediment to his survival and the creation of a so-called capital for the creation of progressive "convergences" and a political understanding culture, a position by definition of problematic and incompatible - proven - with the Greek reality. It is enough to refer to the modern political history of the country, to confirm that the political culture in Greece is based on conflict rather than consensus and convergence and with periods very devastating for our country. The same was sought by SYRIZA in the field of local government, where the inability of local government because of the electoral system restored the Mitsotakis government corroborates with Law 4623/2019. With the conditions prevailing in our country, simple proportionally leads with certainty to its good appearance in the transaction and the worst in lawlessness. Today, the non-approval of this system is essentially supported by a majority of the parties in the House. It is therefore also rejected by the large parliamentary majority and lacks any social majority vote. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with self-knowledge, bold and historical consciousness, triggered the new electoral system in neutral times, in fact, seeking to modernise electoral law, by means of such provisions that can reconcile the popular will with the electoral power, strengthen the rule of law and stimulate the credibility of the political system. The provisions of the new law are fully compatible with the constitutional principles of equivalence of vote and representation and are governed by electoral justice. The constitutional legislature, in addition, in Article 54(1) does not guarantee a certain electoral system, but does leave the joint legislature the freedom to define - in accordance with the political circumstances prevailing at a time - the most appropriate and appropriate system for the specific circumstances of the electoral system. With the provisions of the draft law in question, we are able to find a common component between the proportionality of representation given by the people's mandate, electoral power and government stability. A credible, transparent, simple and functional electoral framework is being established, which in the post-crisis era can create a new relationship between citizens and a political system. The stake, ladies and gentlemen, is great. The case of the country's governance cannot be opportunityal and contemporary party formations with the sole aim of exercising power. SYRIZA - ANEL model is a typical, tragic case in our recent history. Very much, and more so, the country cannot remain unresolved and drag on repeated elections, which reduce the international prestige and cause destabilisation in the national economy and its geopolitical position. The draft law in question consists of three articles. The first article on the amendment of paragraphs 2 to 4 of Article 99 of the n.26/12 is the backbone of the new electoral system. Paragraph 2 lays down how the number of seats in the parties is allocated. Since the first party receives less than 25% of the valid lists, the total number of seats is divided accordingly. Paragraph 3 provides for the procedure of the rightful seats of each formation in the territory. (b) provides for a mechanism for reducing proportionality to 83.33%, provided that the first party raises more than 25% of the valid lists. The party that brings together less than 25% has no premiums. The analogue system applies. The party, which accounts for exactly 25%, is, however, a twenty-seat premium. There is provision for a stepping-up premium of one seat per 0.5% over 25%. So with 30% we have a thirty-seat premium and 40% of a fifty-seat premium. Paragraph 4a provides for the mechanism for the granting of additional seats by electoral regions that have remained unreserved after the procedure provided for in paragraphs 4 to 8 of Article 100. These arrangements also apply to the coalition of cooperating parties. In accordance with paragraph 4b it is also laid down that Marios Ice on board a council, when it declares the electoral combinations, is unequivocally decided on the nature of each party as autonomous or coalition of cooperating parties. Article 3 shall specify the dates of its entry into force. The new electoral law comes, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of a hopeful era for our country. At a time when political stability with national compassion is our conditionine qua non for our survival and prediction. These principles, the historical reality, the memorization of the left-wing obsession with unadulterated and unadulterated simple analogues, the long-term dialogue of the parties, the consultation which has been developed, and the recent recommendation of the Scientific Committee of Parliament, show this electoral law that offers the highest possible proportionality by strengthening the smaller parties, in relation to the previous law. On the occasion of the election law, the aim, in particular, of the Acoustic opposition to blackmailing the important work of this government, in the first few months of governance, which memorably only serves successful actions and important steps to bring to our country, shows its ostracism about the negative effects it has brought to our country and for which the Greek people with their verdict have punished them by sending them to the opposition. Today, this bill is a great step forward by the Government of New Democracy for the rapid completion of all the brave institutional interventions that Greek society needs and which will ensure governmentality and stability in our country and enable it to further advance its action towards the convergence and development of our country which is already being felt. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend the vote in favour of the bill, on the election of MPs, on the Ministry of the Interior, and on the occasion of congratulating both the Minister and the Deputy Minister for all the work and cooperation that we have had in this period, considering the new electoral law, which the Greek Parliament will shortly give to the Greek people in order to create those conditions for the country to be able - away from the recent bad examples of our historic past - to go ahead. I apologise, Mr President, for the tension first, because sometimes we have to work beyond...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u449	She was intensely polite, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u450	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u451	However, I thank you for keeping time, in view of the fact that I am aware that many colleagues have been written and written. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd School of Xylokastro. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic was only elected by a large majority yesterday. A few weeks ago, also by a large majority, the draft law on the participation of our impoverished compatriots in the national elections was passed. And six months ago, the President of Parliament was also elected by a large majority. Three acts that prove the responsibility of our party and opposition for finding convergences in the political system. Unfortunately, today the government very strongly disproved its announcements of political shocks, disproved the proclamations of Mr Mitsotakis of the consents that the Greeks so desire, all of this was sacrificed in front of the usual micro-particular tactics and perception of the conservative part of the right building. Consents for the New Democracy are Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday are the disagreements, and from what we see it is kept for officials of your extradition who honored the institutions and the country, such as Prokopi Pavlopoulos. One day you do not vote for the President of the Republic, the other you congratulate him and call on him. If your announcements, if your appeals were honest, at a time when the country has to deal with heavy national issues - liquidity in the international scene, reclassifications in our region, the crisis in Europe - we would expect you to take another initiative, bring another electoral law, to seek a electoral system that will lead to collaborative logic, a climate of cooperation and understanding, to shocks. Instead, you are bringing an election law to the vote from the old, after consultation of a weekend, which not only gives way to compositions, but is cynically hurting what you are allegedly invoking. You are insulting people's sovereignty, equality of citizens' vote, the Constitution and at the same time the needs of society and the country. You build walls, ladies and gentlemen, and show that all you are serving is the tripartite, communication, communication, communication. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy and the Government are moving on and building walls so as not to create a different environment, a different political climate, even where we disagree, on the way in which civilised political dialogue will take place. We heard before Mr Lebanese saying different words. We are irrelevant, he said, about the request for the unconstitutionality that we made both of SYRIZA and KINAL. But it is no coincidence, Mr Levane, that this provision was abolished by the law of Scandalidis and by our law of 2016. It's no accident at all. And because we heard this at committee meetings too, why - they say - you didn't change the law in the first semester that you governed in 2015? I'll explain why. Because you are enthusiasts of the Constitution and of institutionalism - allegedly - the elections, if I remember correctly, were held in January 2015, except for you who, as a personal opposition, were calling for elections every week, to know that we have been voting for four years in our country. Therefore, the elections had to be held in January 2019. The only ones you wanted to have an election and serve the left-hand parentheses were you and your party. Therefore, quite rightly, the electoral law on simple proportionality was passed in 2016 and the anti-constitutional provisions that are now applying for cancellation were abolished. Where do you see the tragedy? In fact, where do you see the tragedy, apart from what you are bringing today, and in addition to the fact that yesterday you wanted to get a wide-ranging agreement, and today you have in your pocket - and you have taken it out on the seats of this House - the logic for the tools of acidification. Why, then, do you have this dogmatic concept of simply proportional? Why did you have this consultation one weekend? What for? We remain faithful to our ideological principles, to those of justice, equality, popular sovereignty and for this permanent demand of the progressive world and the left, we acted and voted in 2016 on a simple analogue, and together with this we voted on two major areas. The first is the vote at seventeen, and the second is the division of the major constituencies. So, today or in a process of substantial dialogue, we should sit down and see how the electoral system, the electoral law, would be fairer, what the constituencies should be. Mr. Paphis said about 3%. If we do not have a dialogue table to make the system more proportional, we will never succeed in seeing and what the number of constituencies should be and what the matching of seats is, because there are other distortions in each constituency. We should discuss all other issues. So we come with the well-known positions of the New Democracy, after no consultation of a weekend, to discuss the electoral law in Parliament. It seems like in recent years, the years of crisis, they haven't touched you at all. It seems that your governments and the one-party governments, colleagues of the New Democracy, have not led to the bankruptcy of the country. It looks like you didn't draw any conclusions from the memos, from what our society went through. It seems as if you have never discussed within your party, so as a sign of sensitivity and self-criticism, which policies you have served to reach the country where you reached bankruptcy. Of course, the consequences are many. This deaf dialogue you make Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Monday, Wednesday, Friday, has shown the results, has shown the results in the final state, has shown the results to the seemingly and not in the essence of how we are dealing with the real problems of society. It has shown the results in the country's productive structure and in that you have no plan. It has shown the results that you did not want and have never implemented a national strategic plan in some area. Of course, it has shown the results in both public administration and all the other policies, which there are no convergences, you make them Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday these policies. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I have heard about the position and positions of the committees - and your concerns have been raised - about the falsification of the rule of law. Today you have already repeated this against the unequal treatment of the party coalition. Your thoughts really cancel your recent story. They're canceling your arguments - and you've supposedly had - for the Samara-Venizelos Government. Where did a question of cybercrificy came into the country when a party did not have a parliamentary majority? When? They are canceling, of course, others that unfortunately do not see the sacrifices of the Greek people. You cancel them every day with your policies. They annul how we should place emphasis on social policies and on the social state and continue to give 12 billion from the EUR 37 billion to the banks again. You cancel all the social majority and the feeling of working, bringing the strikes to the private sector, after many decades and even where you have been proud of privatizations, at the Telecommunications Agency of Greece. You cancel the sense of justice that the Greek people want to have, the sense of security that the Greek people want to have through your policies. We do not need to mention again the very large balance sheet you have shown in the six months. It is rich in the doctrine "law and order" that you made it "true and fight". You're canceling common sense. You have presented us with extreme examples. If a party - says - has 48%, will it not be able to do self-reliance? But if we give you the paintings - the Minister has them - you will see that in such extreme scenarios - it is not today's correlations - and with 33% a party can have self-reliance. Today, what the parliamentary majority is discussing is a given, which is a social minority, in relation to the results of the last elections. Don't you see that? For us, then, the dilemma is different. The dilemma is whether we will have a system that leads to Greece of cooperation, contrary to you who want to have a system that leads to Greece of bankruptcy with all the resulting consequences, namely, with a state of spoil, putting the party register into state, putting the 'partner grandparents' into state, changing the law for the final state within six months, the law on local government twenty-times, having exceptional arrangements for recruitment, transfers and placements, at least twenty-six provisions, not even respecting the principle that you are allegedly claiming the continuity of the state. We cannot therefore not tell you these things which are the consequence of this logic of the mono-party governments, a majority system which affects both the equality of vote and justice and popular sovereignty. I believe that on the basis of these principles - and that is what we believe - there must be governments based not only on the parliamentary majority but also on the social majority, on the majority. You cannot defend the sovereignty of the people and so brutally change the will of the Greek people. Minister, your officials' statements to the committees - and not just - on the double elections are, in our opinion, an insult to both the Greek people and their expression. It is not within Parliament's committees, what you say, what the New Democracy announces is that we are going to take the country into double elections to cancel the simple analogue. First of all, I would like to say that we will not give you this right, thankfully for the country, thankfully for the Greek people. We have heard your statements that the elections will be held at the end of the four-year period. I wish you that personally, but it is a threat - a real threat - to the Greek people if you continue to pursue your policies. You called on us to work together on the issues of state, public administration and self-government. Our door is open, but our door is not at all open to all the rest that you are going through. Our door is not open at all and we will not allow the country to continue in a extreme right-wing direction on specific aspects. Mr. Simopole, it's okay, it'll pass you. You guys deal with the subway of Thessaloniki, which you will never do! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Take care of what you were electorally announcing for development, which we are in the second half of the year in a record of reducing industrial production, exports and increasing the unemployment and record of the lies you were telling about the Greek, the infrastructure projects, all the development actions and then you will come back to me again, especially in northern Greece. And, of course, we will not allow you to continue what is going on at the top of the square, which is the sowing of your policy, namely, that there should be reasonable other than our history, from our tradition, from what our grandparents have taught us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want your tolerance for a minute, if I may. You were cut off for the De-Democratic Hellenism that you created in the 1950s, 1960s to express themselves in the elections and, if I remember correctly, you are also cut off for the refugee element, let's say for the Asia Minor, for the Pontius, for the Egyptian Hellenism, in full misplacedness with what you have done and for the refugee and for the immigration, in full misplacedness, when you want to have closed centers - camps, in essence, in prisons - for these people. You don't honor our tradition or our history or our grandparents. You once again highlight one aspect other than the one you refer to, your concern for Depopulated Hellenism, which is that of immigration and not of refugee. Leave it for others, for us, for those who really - not supposedly - honor the Asia Minor element, the Pontian Hellenism and the Egyptians. Obviously, we will not keep your position on national issues, even though the changes in dogma that you have shown, this given ally, the predictable ally, is not the best way to serve our national interests. Mr President, the next elections will take place on a simple analogue basis, unfortunately for you, thankfully for the Greek people. With what you are doing, you will make us all overcome differences, disagreements and wounds that we have in the past and we will not only have a progressive government, not only will there be double elections, but we will also take the initiative, since the government does not do so, for the convening of committees of the parties of the progressive anti-politics, in order to agree on a system of elections, both for the national elections and for the local government, which respects the Greek people's vote, so that after the next elections with a simple proportional vote more than two hundred votes again, and not to implement the distorting plans that you have for the frustration of popular will and popular sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u453	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u454	What was personal for you? Tell us the staff for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u455	The former Minister of the ribbon, who had become accustomed to doing work through ribbon cuts and not auctioning works, referred to me personally for the Thessaloniki metro, and I would like to say a few words, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u456	It was personal. He said "you who would never make the subway of Thessaloniki".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u457	Mr Colleague, do you now 'presiding'? Let's see what the staff are made up of. Mr Simopoulos, making an assessment of a project which has either not been done or which is not going well is a different matter from the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u458	He didn't appreciate it. Mr President, speak for me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u459	Listen, we need to get a class in here. Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure does not provide for what you say. He didn't say anything about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u460	But isn't falsification personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u461	No, it's not personal. Take a look at article 68. False is when the previous speaker said something and the next one falsifys his words. He didn't say that. Look at the expression. So we'll never stop. Do you know that so far there have been hundreds of fifteen speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u462	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u463	Yeah, but that's how we break the Rules of Procedure. In any case, tell what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u464	They took the metro to an automatic pilot with all the themes solved before Venizelos and the metro of Thessaloniki threw it on the rocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u465	The project was closed in 2014!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u466	Okay, it's a statement. That wasn't personal. Mr. Femmelle, that wasn't personal. It's over. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, asked for the floor. Mr President, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, the rapporteurs do not change the order. You should first get in touch with the others. The day before yesterday, you cut off my speech to put on Mr. Velopoulos' speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u468	Why is this happening now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u469	Cut, but not mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u470	Why now are you making a subject? There's a personal problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u471	There was an appeal before the Bureau to give the floor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and you did not give it. At least because it is a matter of health, ask those who have a turn to tell you assent. Otherwise don't make the president, if you can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u472	Is that the problem, Mr. Kegeroglu? I don't understand. A little understanding now. He's the chairman of a parliamentary group. For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u473	First of all, I should like to thank Kegeroglu, who is an old parliamentarian. Thank you very much for what you're doing, I honestly tell you from my soul. Don't you get it too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u474	The day before they cut off my speech to put yours. Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u475	They cut mine to put Mr. Tsipras on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u476	I don't think you have any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u477	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u478	Oh, no. Sit down. Be honest and honest. Knowing to be honest and honest and to tell the whole truth. My speech's off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u480	Shouldn't you ask for the assent?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u481	I didn't know, Santa. I'll ask for your opinion. What can we do now? You did this whole thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u482	I'm not talking about you, you have a health issue. Good. I'm referring to the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u483	I don't think there's any problem now with a colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u484	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u485	It's over. So, you have any objections? If you have any objections, I shall put it to the vote. But is that possible? This is the first time that a party leader should ask for the floor and the subject to be raised. He's gonna talk anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u486	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u487	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u488	For our politeness here everyone is judged daily and gives their own personal examinations. However, I think it is really rude, I think, that it is a policy that we do not accept under any circumstances, surprise ourselves, to be in the way of papers, so that we can come and talk in our turn and you can raise another speaker. Nothing personal with the speaker. But in any case, we won't be notified? How do you think we're right to give it to you? You asked for the consent, in order to have the pleasure, Mr President, to tell the sick fellow party president whether or not we agree. But give us joy, because otherwise it is a matter of enforcing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u489	Mr Colleague, you are new to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u490	And you're old.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u491	Yeah, I was five years ago when you were somewhere else. This is happening, Mr Kegeroglu, many times. When President George Papandreou, the previous President, asked to take his word before me, I gave him his word when he was ill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u492	Mr President, do not have a dialogue. This is about the Bureau. Please, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u493	I said, I'm fine with it, but they're asking us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u494	Mr. Kegeroglu, the President has indeed notified his coma because of the illness. Maybe the mistake is mine I didn't tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u495	I'm sure it is. Not 'possibly', Mr President! I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u496	That's your problem, Mr. Kegeroglu, what can I tell you? This isn't the first time that this is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u497	You're not respecting anything, you're a judiciary. I'm stopping here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u498	If you think that's how you're impressed, you're wrong. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u499	In order to put one order on things yesterday, it became what my friend Vassilis Kegeroglou said, but I must remind him that my speech was interrupted alive to be broadcast by Mr. Tsipras, and then Mrs. Cassimatis was calling me because they cut off, he says, all of a sudden at night...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u500	I didn't swear on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u501	Listen up! Please listen very much to me first and then. You said something about me and I didn't answer. They cut my speech - and well they did - to pass on the speech of the Chief of Police Response. I was cut off in the air and I didn't say anything. I didn't talk. I answer you as follows: You know, democracy is a nice tire. You're pulling it as it suits you. It is not tireless for democracy to be fair. I have formally requested - I say this directly now - that you withdraw. I asked you to withdraw. I have not interrupted any speech, no Prime Minister, no chief, Mr. Tsipras. Others have cut my own speech to put your leader in. Let's go down. Let's actually go. Let me start with Mr. Spirtzi. We must go seriously, and I apologize again to my good friend Vassilis Kegeroglou, who we are also short-sighted. But I didn't see you complain when Spirtz treated our little brothers, our grandparents, with the Afghans. You didn't say anything when Spirjis said that the refugees of Asia Minor and Podu who came here are the same as those of Afghanistan and Pakistan. You didn't say anything! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's all about the show, though! That's what bothers me. When a Member arrives in the Greek Parliament to assimilate my four grandparents, who were sacrificed - they were eight brothers - and killed on the street, with the Afghans and the Pakistani people, the logic is over. On the other hand, Mr. Spirtzis talks about humanity when they made Moria, they built a Moria. This thing is incredible. He's talking about humanity or a polar genocide - I don't know how he said it - a tiny disaster, when in their party they have people who say there was no genocide, when Mr. Friend says there is no genocide. What can we talk about now? For a party that does not have a programme, does it have any substance and, most importantly, are they hypocritical? And why am I saying "surprises"? Because I do not know how many people you read 'ECONOMIST' yesterday. Greece ranks in the thirteenth place, in defective democracies. Our country! You're talking about democracy, New Democracy, SYRIZA, you're talking about democracy. You know what they say in my village? Those who invoke democracy are worse than fascists, because they are looking for an alibi than democracy to impose their hypocrisy and fascism. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yes, gentlemen, you are hypocrites. You ruled with a law as you were attracted to you by the ANELs, the "sprayed" or those who were "right-wing", as you said, you made an abortion government, you used it, and now you come to memorize them, who at least always said they want strong governments. They're not hypocrites like you. I have a lot of stitches for their fur, but this kind of hypocrisy, to rule because it suits me by electoral law and once the elections come to change the electoral law to make it difficult for the next, that's what they call culture. It's not politics. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That is why Greece is classified in these positions of democracy. So ECONOMIST comes out and says that you have devastated democracy, all since 1974, in a performance such as the electoral process, such as the government's function, participation in common, political culture and individual freedoms. No one read 'POLITICO'? Didn't any of you realize that, basically, we're thirty-one worldwide? The country that gave birth to democracy is on the line of advanced countries in the context of democracy. Isn't that bothering you? Do you agree on everything else and come here hypocritically to disagree with what? In whether you get bonuses the first party and whether you go and go and collide PASOK and SYRIZA. 'Cause that's your misery, if you're going to get a run-in, the whole story is. So why are you protesting? That much? After you'll rule again, won't you rule? The PASOK doesn't want to rule? He wants to. Uh, well, what do you mind getting bonuses after you're ruling again? You want partnerships. Collaborations you didn't want before. You worked with the Annells. Who's ANEL? I don't want to remind you what Annell said. So, let's know what we're talking about. Friends and friends, the excess of this hypocrisy is now enough. From 1974, Minister, by 2019, we have eight electoral systems. In the total history of the country we had fifteen. Listen to the numbers to understand. You actually know why you're fighting today? Let me tell you. Because you agree on all the rest, you agree on all the matters, and you want memorials to apply from the institutions of anti-grassroots measures and cut pensions, you want to cut wages, you agree on all of this, and you disagree with them. This is the policy of SYRIZA, unfortunately, and the rest of the parties. You take advantage of the bonus concepts, smoothing, analogy, representation, democracy, confusing the world, confusing it. You really say: Do you want to rule again? Why, then, do you want to work with others to rule? The question is that. And why - I repeat - have you ruled with an abortion government, if you did not want self-responsibility or strong government? I'll say it to you. You ruled with the ANELs because Mr. Alexis Tsipras was a friend of Mr. Kammenos. From a friendship, from a simple friendship, you started working with them. I am always afraid - I will say this directly - to all governments that the party interest is ahead of me, that is what is bothering me. Today the New Democracy has a fixed position. He sees it as not convenient for the electoral law to change it. Of course, to be honest, from this side is consistent with what they say, they always want to rule themselves, the spoon wants it for themselves, they don't want to share it with anyone else, the spoon of power I mean, I don't say about other things, because the other things are another story. Therefore, you will insist on a mere analogy. I'll tell you straight away. My view is that the simple analogue is the best electoral system, the most democratic, indeed. So we don't fool anyone in here. It's the most representative. But in a democracy that votes 100% of the voters. When you were elected with 40%, 30% - and for us I am now referring - but 55% of the Greeks do not vote, you vote with a percentage of 20% on ordinary voters. Isn't that a democratic deficit? So let us fight together to persuade all citizens to come to vote and from 50% to 70%, 80%, 90%, so that there is a representation on the basis of democracy, not in the de facto democracy you call on. Because the government today took 40%, but it's 20%. This is the real figure, 20% of Greeks support the New Democracy, the Government. Did we get 3.7%? 1.5%, 1.8%. Who are we kidding now? So we must convince the voter that here we are not operating micro-partners, that here we do not propose our party over democracy and above the country's own history. It's unacceptable what's going on. I see you're fighting about things we shouldn't even have talked about. Whether the article is unconstitutional, etc., just to play you at night in the news releases. I really don't understand it. So much love for the bulletins? Yeah, just proportional! But when I have a Thrace that our friend Erdogan is being treated with, when I have agents at the Komotini consulate acting uncontrollably, do I not have to find an impediment so that a party with 1.5% or 2% will suddenly not come out and get me into Parliament and represent Turkish or Muslim interests? Shouldn't the legislator provide for what's coming? Because the great Aristotle had said: Politics is the art of prediction, to see what comes, Mr President, and to stop it. If you run behind evolution, you have a problem. It's over! You're lost by hand. That is why we are proposing and say that, although the simple analogue is excellent today, especially because of Turkey, there are risks of national sovereignty. There are risks of leveraging and refreshing passions and chauvinism and militarism. I will not make an electoral system, then, which will take the next day for tragic developments to take place in Thrace. We must not allow it. On the other hand, since we have huge problems, I believe that the country needs a strong, strong government. Why am I saying that? Just for one reason. You're so good as a party in SYRIZA or PASOK, you have a plan, you have a plan. Why do you want to save and well manage? Aren't you willing or can't you rule on your own? I ask you. Can you not convince the world that you can govern and want partnerships or you want electorally frustrated systems with different programs to co-operate? What do you want, anyway? Do you want to rule, yes or no? Or do you want, does he save well, in effect rule by putting others in the game? We call it straight away. We say clearly: As a Greek solution I wish the Greek people, on the basis of the programme we have of the three hundred pages tabled, to choose and rule autonomous, because we are different from all of you, because we are completely different and we have a whole different philosophy: not micropolitical, not micro-partisanism. I say it because the previous one really upset me. For some Members are forgetting in this House that I have often given my word or given my turn without even asking. And I don't understand why the trouble is. The worst part of all the symposia hypocrites is this. They just went to escape - they were on a raid, that is - they changed the electoral law. And not just that. You've done the worst. You have had local government collide with each other, to make unholy alliances with an electoral law - legality and the municipalities cannot be governed. These are crimes. Why did you do that? Why do you want to make it difficult for them? You do not make it difficult for them, you make it difficult for the country, the nation to rule, you make it difficult for Greece to rule. With a government we may disagree, but we must help it constructively with criticism to do a good job. But not sawing his chair before the election. What's that called? You tell me. If it's not called political hypocrisy, what's it called? I mean, we made a law before leaving the government to make it harder for the next one. The previous government must give the next "dog" of governance, to facilitate it, not to cause it problems. That's our philosophy. That's why I'm telling you we're different from you. We are completely different and this has proved to be the case with the candidateship of the President of the Republic. You've all voted for it. You SYRIZA's sensitive economists didn't know that in Skouria this lady signed four thousand acres? You didn't know? Didn't you know? Didn't you know that there was a skull place in Skouria, that she was infected with lead, you Syrian economists? Where's your ecological sensitivity? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I remember the gentleman sitting behind, who did a lot of showing, and he said about the Squirrels. The lady signed it and you voted for it. Not to say about national issues. There's no need. I disagree with the New Democracy, anyway. The President of the Republic has her own perception. So I wish her the best. As an institution, we respect it, but her personal choices were resentful in terms of decision-making. I won't say about mall how it was legitimized, under whose signature, Latsi's abortion. SYRIZA forgot all this, the mobilizations of SYRIZA members, for Mall and for Skouria. You're hypocrites, gentlemen. You're hypocrites! You're hypocrites!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u502	He's worthy! He's worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u503	You don't want to talk, you did a show about Skouria and you voted in favour of the lady. Don't talk. You are not entitled to speak. I say again: you are not entitled to speak, ecologically unconscious, invoking ecological sensitivity. You are ecologically unconscious. You stink of Squirrels and you have the nerve and you speak. And you're not ashamed. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let's go, seriously, because it's more serious than SYRIZA has issues to solve, much more seriously. Plato, ladies and gentlemen, said that one of the punishments you do not agree to deal with politics is that you end up ruling you. So the problem with Greece is that citizens do not become active citizens. And you've all been doing so since 1974. Everything that has been done by the political system for the citizens has been done, so that young people can turn their backs to politics and you - we - do what we want in here - so we think - but not listen to us. We're in a small world right here, we say ours, we fly each other, but we do when we're in the government, but we do when we're in the opposition. This is what the world sees as much as it is illiterate, half learnt, not knowing, being brainwashed from the channels that New Democracy controls today. Check all channels, so brain wash, and twenty-nine laundry manufacturers have not done! Such brainwashing you're doing from the channels you're checking is unbelievable. Whatever you do is right! So I'm saying this. We must find - I stress this - a way for the citizen to come close to politics. We're going seriously. I hear people in here saying, constantly, a little tale that Turkey is causing. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, let's get a little serious. Turkey does not. Turkey claims. It's completely different to provoke verbality, and it's completely different to claim. Today we had a claim by Akar of sixteen Greek islands for demilitarisation. That's not a challenge. That's called a claim. A drill goes and pierces normally on the plot of eight of Cyprus to make gas, because that's where there's gas. I know that. Because many in the New Democracy made fun of me in '07, '08 and '09. And at PASOK they had Mr. Pangalos who fooled me and said, "Get the keys to the oil". Here, in Parliament. There are in the Minutes. And they're not ashamed! George Papandreou said there was no oil. And they're not ashamed! Unbelievable things are happening. So I say he pierces. Is that a challenge? You're messing with it. It's a claim. It's not a challenge, it's a claim. I say this because you are trying to take us to The Hague in a way. You're trying to do it in the media too, and Mr. Mitsotakis said it indirectly that he was going to The Hague. I'll tell you one thing. If you want to commit a national crime, go to The Hague. We tell you something, though. The Hague is the trap of our country. We've lost twice in The Hague. You want to go to The Hague? Claim. Put Imbro, Tenedo, which - I repeat - have the self-employed, on the basis of the Treaty of Losan. Push a mouse thing. Put a secret Christian. Put out Turkish troops withdrew from Cyprus. Indemnification of the Greek Constantinople, which became commitments to their property. Put on the topics to go and talk. If you go to discuss only what Turkey wants, we will lose what we have. And, unfortunately, you will be, after those who committed the crime with Macedonian and Skopje, which most of you have been silenced today, you will be the next ones to commit criminals with the Aegean and Turkey. So if you do that, I'm afraid you're ready to kill yourself politically. Watch out, 'cause you've done more crimes. I'm hanging up here, Mr. President. What right do you 'exploit' Patriot from our country - the weapon system - and take it to Saudi Arabia? Saudi Arabia is rich, it has oil, it has billions, it buys teams, it buys countries. And what are you doing? Will you "drink" the country's defense, take it to Saudi Arabia to protect it from whom? From Iran, the only country - and Mr Voutsi knows what I'm going to say - that has given us oil for years. The only country that gave us oil is Iran. And you're going to put the missiles to protect who? The Saudi filthy poor? They have money. Let's buy. What are you doing? You are opening a hole in the country's defensive image against Turkey. Be careful, gentlemen, because the buyers were the reason to open - I say this directly - the portal of Constantinople. Don't open buyers, don't repeat crimes. I'm closing up with this. You're such a liar. I have here an image from Mrs Giannakou, which said yesterday that veto was a symbolism. The Prime Minister is coming out and says he will veto the issue of Greek and Egyptian and AEZ, and the ministers are coming out slowly and undoing the Prime Minister's statement. Why didn't you veto the board with the Treasury? Why didn't you veto? You tell me why you didn't veto yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u504	You're no more patriot than we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u505	I know what I'm telling you. Look at it a little bit longer. I want to be careful on national issues. I made a deal with the Prime Minister when we talked together. So I say, and I repeat, because you probably don't hear what the Prime Minister says. I'll remind you what he said. I will remind you, Mr Lazarides. Don't be angry. Don't worry. Don't get me wrong. You're not the prime minister's attorney!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u506	The President of the Republic, how will he swear?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u507	You're not the Prime Minister's attorney! Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u508	You don't know what's going on with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u509	Are you a government representative? Oh, no! When you're done, let's talk about it. So let's go to Mr. Metarakis, so we can close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u510	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u511	Not 'good, good' to me. "Good, good" to your children! So let's go to the rest. Metarakis today - and I close with this - says: 'We agree on closed structures, but we disagree in their stay, where they will go'. 'They close', he says, 'the open structures and the government's communication with municipalities and regions'. Today Mitaris said it. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. If every ten days you change plan, you change Ministers, you change Undersecretaries to make it self-evident, you make a mistake. You remember the guy who goes to build a building and starts in the penthouse. I mean, you're talking about everything else, but you don't talk about how these people won't come here, how we do the deterrence. Close borders, close non-governmental organisations, see where they come from and secure our borders, give incentives to get people out of here. The islands are sighing, people go out on the streets, and you have a plan to leave them on the islands. That's your plan. So I'm going to tell you, by closing 'push back', I'm cutting allowances, I'm closing NGOs and ending the fairy tale! Otherwise you will be filled with Ibrahim Hassan in Greece, and the next elections are held or not with a reinforced analogue, SYRIZA because he has good relations with the NGOs, will get more identities to give Ibrahim and Hassan and we will not just have a change of population but we will also have a change of electorate. It will be disgraceful for the country, the nation, the history of being the worst generation we've ever driven Greeks out of Greece and, unfortunately, some people don't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u512	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u513	Mr President, I have asked you to speak on a personal note beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u514	To what is the staff? Tell us in a minute what it is for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u515	My name is "Cassimatis" and Mr. Velopoulos mentioned it and said that I exulted him during my speech the other day, which is absolutely false.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u516	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u517	May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u518	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u519	Thank you. You mentioned it, Mr. Velopoulou, and you said that I took the floor the other day in plenary yesterday, insulting you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u520	I didn't say that. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u521	You said'sweeping'. I would ask you, Mr President, to impose order on me to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u522	If you didn't, you say so, it's recorded in the Minutes and it solves the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u523	So he said Mr. Velopoulos that we insulted him. That's not the reality. Indeed - and we denounce it again, because it seems that Mr Velopoulos wants an abuse, which may have taken place against him, to cure it with another abuse - the Channel of Parliament cannot interrupt plenary to show the speeches made by the Heads of State or Government. That's what ERT has to do with it. So, after it has been done for you, Mr Velopoulos, you should denounce it where you must not blame the others here who say that one class must be preserved and the plenary programme must not be interrupted while Members are speaking. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u524	You've become clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u525	The House and the Channel of Parliament must not do this again, as should ERT to do its job and show to live the speeches of the Heads. It is not the work of the Channel of Parliament to do this while there is a plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u526	We shall also see it in the Conference of Presidents. The Special Rapporteur, Evangelia Lykoulis, from the Change Movement, is now called at Step. Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u527	First of all, Mr President, I would like to express my great pleasure, despite the high fever, Mr President-in-Office, and I have seen him very much. That's all that gives me joy. Ladies and gentlemen, the political 'now' is linked to 'yes' and 'yes' more than 'now'. Today and now, the thousands of inhabitants of the islands of the East Aegean, who protested yesterday on their islands and on the ports, are with their representatives in Athens. The refugee is swallowing us. Today, our national issues are all open to crisis and diplomatic discomfort. It is Europe in crisis and awkward to us. Berlin, too, turned our backs on us. The Mediterranean is malting. Turkey is causing and piercing. Of course, growth in the country is in a corner with the ‘alarm’ to wait for the node of government, which does not seem to come to the nearest. In the last few days, "now" in relation to "yes" and "yes" we connect it with the two faces of Janus in less than a few days. Of course, we are linked to the attitude of the government, the ministers and the Prime Minister themselves. The counter-population collapsing - you have seen it today - is numb in the face of this obituary transformation. Yesterday we had hugs, kisses, triumphant condolences, bluntness, warm hugs for the truly great consensus of the election of the first woman President of the Republic of the country, with an exceptionally increased historical majority. "I'm glad we agreed on the important things," the Prime Minister said coming out of this plenary session. We're glad we agreed on the important points. It was a real feat for the country's political data. Since its establishment of almost micropsies, triplets, trenches of trenches, did not allow us to deal with this institutional process at the height of circumstances. But is this the real picture at all the lengths and backs of our coexistence with the government? It's not like that. A few days before yesterday's election of the President of the Republic, the political system was decided to give one more battle and to give another examination. In fact, with you, Minister, together we have fought this battle in the committees and in Parliament's plenary. It was for the vote of the frustrations. At that time we were late and then we managed to overcome our political views on many individual issues and the political system finally managed to give the government the opportunity to communicate this legislation on a solemn basis. You didn't even give the Opposition. But it's okay. We recognise that this is also a condition for democracy, that is to say, that the government should be fruitful and that the attempts and consents of counter-population are being made. But, from then on, from those days, from the very few days and from yesterday's day until today, your attitude, your position and your image are quite different to us. Unfortunately, what we faced with with the electoral law is the attitude of the uncompromising person toward us. From you yourself, Minister, in committee we have faced a statement that will allow me to say that it has surprised me personally not pleasantly. So you said that we could talk two and three and a lot, we wouldn't have come to a conclusion and we wouldn't have come to a conclusion. I would remind you, therefore, that the evil began and that attitude from the Prime Minister's very attitude, who accepted the heads of political parties in his office and spoke about all other national issues, has given them - as they have revealed - the body of electoral law, that is, his plan, saying'regard this as it is. If you want, you vote. Otherwise, you are voting against it.’ This was the debate you have introduced as a government for the electoral law of a new decade, 2020. So you saw the thing. The complete government turn is actually about the political groups - but also about the political system - a Scottish shower, i.e. cold - heat, 'yes' to consent - 'no' to consent, as is convenient for you. So you want a la cartt consent. When it suits you, then call us. Whenever it doesn't suit you, you're sending us not to say where. Now, however, you're sending us away. We are subject to this procedure, which we neither wish to consider to be yours nor to believe that this is your belief in the morale of politics. That's how it suits you right now. That we can believe. In any case, however, you have a regularism, which in no way can we consent. You have old and acquaintances. Everything is well burned. You've been coming from a long time. Everything's going well. This is a face lift of the Pavlopoulou Law. You have to admit it. Because you're a person close to the social fabric, you're not far away and you know very well. You're personally involved. You are one of the few in Greece, Minister, where the electoral systems have seen you at the panels, at the tables, analyze them. Well, you know what you're doing very well. And you know very well what there is. We have an old law, an old system, an old perception, with old practices, but a supposedly new staff. Ultimately, it's like in a semi-destructed building - unseparated everything - to put up modern lighting. I do not understand your aesthetics and political aesthetics, but you have also caused the culture of democracy. You have a law and a system of ideas that you bring with this plan, which the political developments of recent history themselves have overcome. The New Democracy in this way only manages to demonstrate that as an exception it is the country's conservative party. It seems to me very little to see how many things have changed in the political map and in the political system over the last ten years. You want to call yourself reformers. You want to say that you are the government of all Greeks. You're saying you're the first government of new memorial regularity. But the new normality that you are now shaping - let us be honest - has been achieved on the bodies of others through cooperation between others, which is peculiar, difficult, unsatisfactory, unholy, very difficult cooperation. So you come and sit on the laurels of these partnerships and say "Here we are and here we are." It is selfish to understand that. There's something else that's wrong. You are stumbling all tones and I have been following up these days the news that - as you are allegedly - you are following the logic of our system, namely architecture, you say, logic - you make it more elegant - of the proposal of the Change Movement. So you say personally, Minister, even though you have never discussed it with us, and if you have not allowed us to explain this architecture to you, as we understand it, as we have experienced it, as historically we have it exorbitant and as we have seen in this decade, it really fits. You didn't discuss it with us, you didn't discuss it with anyone. So the government seems to suit her to think she is close to the thinking of our own architecture. And that's what you say about the stepping bonus. It's true, though, isn't it? You replicate us in a lot of ways. We know that we accept this because we were the real and unique reformists in the Greek reality of Postmopolitanism. You have the right to do this, we give it to you, because anyway political reforms are an estate of all the Greek people and all the political forces. But under no circumstances do you have the courage to conclude that this is the case. You have taken from our suggestion the step-by-step bonus, you have falsified it steeply, but you, decisively, are bringing it to your own measures. What do we say? We say gradients to take the first party, and only if this exceeds 25%, the first twenty seats of the total bonus of thirty-five seats. We propose an additional 1%, over and above 25%, that the first party votes take one seat. Different first: You say fifty seats. Different decisive second, you say one seat at first for each additional 0.5%. Is it essential, will anyone ask this falsification, amendment, in any case? Of course, yes, because, in principle, it is wicked differentiation. Because the thirty-five seat bonus, Minister, which we set as the absolute term and ceiling of the first party premium, is not a random number at all. It's not a courgette product, it's not a political whim. We have told you this in committee as well, and now we are saying it: it is another way to achieve self-reliance with a threshold of almost 41% and self-reliance with 37%. Clean words and a straight look. Of course, we are the ones who say this because, unequivocally and directly, we defend the popular verdict which clearly pushes many times into shock. He's pushing you into shock, because he doesn't trust you to rule on your own. He wants you, but he doesn't want you alone. Many times in recent years, this political system has proved this. Of course, I should also like to say about the great difference between the two proposals, which has emerged today and the objection to the constitutionality of this bonus provision in the coalitions of the partner parties. You will allow me to say, Minister, that you have done well - with a very friendly attitude - that you have not taken the floor. And because the Undersecretary has taken the floor, which I very much appreciate on a personal level, to say he has misguided and spoken. I wouldn't take the floor if I were you. Solve political arguments. Turn around - around the circle. You're making a very nice district. You have not touched on the matter at all, about other turbulents. You said that, you said about him, about the other one. A political argument, a legal argument, about a constitutionalist, only spoke of two points of view, one of which is a bourgeoisie, the other - I know because of my work - and that is not what people said. In fact, they recalled after 2018, they never got a new opinion again. So it would be better to remain silent. You left Mr. Ypsilante, your Parliamentary representative, to say what he had to say under the treaty. And I also understand what you had to say, and go to God's wish, as the government says, and pass it. But at the core of the matter we have to say that such bans and governmental paternalisms are absolutely unconstitutional. You know that, too. We know that, too. Everyone knows that. It is disgusting to treat coalitions against the autonomous parties. What time? I heard you whispering that at PASOK such laws were cut and sewed. First of all, 'for your good day'. For PASOK when you speak, you will respect what has really done and what has brought about reform in the country. Mr. Lebanon knows that well firsthand. In any case, we say: The crown of our own development is that in 2001 with the Constitutional Review we achieved every electoral law that is being slashed, seized, by every government - take what I say as a total self-criticism of the political system - to apply from the next elections and only if it has gathered the two necessary MPs from the next, which you cannot now. So have you seen what our democratic brakes are in what every time, every political system, every government - if you like - is cutting off and sewing in its own measures? [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Let's say one more thing. There was a claim. Again, I shall refer to the face of the State Secretary. Mr Lebanese spoke to the committee in response to our claim. Mr. Ypsilantis knows very well that these things in the committee have been exhausted. We referred to all the parties and to the second reading, and the arguments have all been said. Mr Lebanese, then, came to committee at second reading and said: 'We want this cut, with this cut we are putting, to defend the system from opportune coalitions'. What did he mean? He meant that, before the elections, we should not, under any circumstances, allow parties to co-exist and plan to compare, because that is what this is about. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] And who are you, each of you, Mr. Undersecretary, what is this political system that will put a cut on it? You cannot, because it is the quintuosity of democracy, the programmatic convergence between parties, and you could be the party that will make programming convergence tomorrow - the day after tomorrow with a neighbouring political formation of yours. And then you'd mind that too much. One more thing. The contribution to institutional modernisation is the role of each party here, whether it is a government or a minor or major opposition. In any case, we must look the world in the eye and say that we cannot, of course, with an electoral law to square the cycle. We can't have everyone happy. But how do you justify to the Greek people today that you have not even discussed, you have not even opened up an intergroup committee to find the solution, sustainable, for our times and for our electoral system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, what remains of you is that you have perceived a state of accomplishment, with a perfect person, with chiefs, with executives, many great staff. However, history of Greek, rich Greek history has proved that you are never a rider on the horse, Minister. At some point, you unleash, and when you get out, it's time to go to the cashier, the political fund, and then count, but count. Everything is on the news and everything shows that there were much stronger ministers, Prime Ministers and before Mr Mitsotakis at other times. Unfortunately, respect for the institutions was the small one that offered democracy, and that was after self-esteem. But now we have a setback, something old, something anachronistic. With the law you bring to Parliament institutional oxygen is completely lacking and the political system is severely weak with chronic obstructive election. The Scottish shower in this patient, unfortunately, does very great harm, as does in political health. The incident is heavy, it is in the intensive, the government has a full responsibility for the patient's development. We do not take any blame for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u528	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-five students and students and five teachers from the 11th Municipal School of Kalamata. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr President. The new electoral system proposed by the Government of New Democracy by this draft law is majority and polluting. It turns an electoral minority into a parliamentary majority, as is also the case systematically since the post-collection and after all the governments. The Communist Party of Greece is voting against and stands against the efforts of the New Democracy Government to restore the bonus by donating the first party with up to fifty seats and maintaining 3% as an entry limit in the House. And this through the blackmail of double elections, in the name of stability and governance. A few days ago, in discussing the vote on the falsifications, the government invoked the principle of equality of vote. Today, this principle goes for a walk because other objectives, such as governance, are being promoted, as you say, namely ensuring anti-popular government stability, which for the people means a great deal of instability and insecurity. It proves once again its hypocrisy, but also how hollow the proclamations of all urban parties and staff for democracy are for the people. See how rulers perceive the concept of democracy. The same ones who talk about the minority of protesters and strikes and legislate that it was the law of the SYRIZA that extended it to a labour union that New Democracy - they are the ones who legislate that, in order to elect a government, it is enough that the minority of the voters are the same who legislate on all the necessary cuts - sewed for the formation of a government, even if it does not result from the outcome of the elections. Why two yards and two weights? Why all this hypocrisy? It is quite simply because, above all, you are proposing the stability of the anti-popular policy of the barbaric and rotten system, and you say that the minority groups are bad, when with a thousand two obstacles they are able to organise a strike, but good minority groups when we are taken as government and as MPs. So enjoy this democracy! It's callous, it's dangerous to the people's interests. Of course, with regard to other parties, even though they voted against the draft law of the Government - apart from the Greek Solution - which has already been expressed positively, their proposals are in the same positive criticism, with less or more proportionality of theft of seats than the smaller parties. Their common feature is the rejection of simple and unadulterated analogy, without bonus and plaque, which is firmly supported by the Communist Party of Greece. There is no proportional or proportional electoral system for the JRC. Less proportionate systems favour blackmail through the logic of lost vote, and most proportionally through the attempt to plunder votes they encroach on the people in false dilemmas about who will cooperate with whom they have post-elections. An electoral system, with which variations in political circumstances and purposes each time, was and is a decisive factor in the strengthening of the urban political system, through the distortion of popular will. And that, because his main aim was and remains to ensure stability in government change and prevent the political expression of the working class, the people's strata, that is, the Communist Party of Greece, which is in conflict with its capital and instruments. The present draft law is also aimed at this. The JRC is placed for the electoral law from a position of principle, without micro-party purposes and tacticalism, consistently in support of unadulterated and inappropriate mere analogy. It supports from a position of principle as a permanent electoral system a mere unadulterated analogy, because it is the only electoral system that reflects the popular will, as it is recorded in the elections. It is well known, of course, that what precedes the elections in order to alter the popular will before the call. Extortion of terrorist dilemmas to the people, advertising campaigns in the media with full money, ruffles with promises to voters and others. Simple and unadulterated analogue is incompatible with the existence of any form of bonus, but also with the existence of an entry plaque in the House, for which no party, other than the Communist Party of Greece, speaks. In fact, our party recently tabled this proposal as part of the Constitutional Review. It was rejected by the rest of the parties, both from the New Democracy and from the Change Movement - that certainly does not surprise us - that the polluting electoral systems are firmly defending. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] Rejected by SYRIZA. That doesn't even surprise us. This is because we recall that the SYRIZA proposal in the context of the Constitutional Review, as it is said here, does not exclude the plaque, which is considered as otherwise provided by the law, which has brought both the government and the bonus, since it states that there may be a difference of up to 10% in the distribution of seats from the election result. His proposal for a simple analogue is a alteration of its real content. It has absolutely nothing to do with simple and undisputed proportions. Words such as 'unfair', 'adulter', 'clean' have been deleted for some years from his vocabulary. It makes them, as the people say, 'hard'. The blackmail scene of the double elections, set by the New Democracy Government, is a first-class opportunity for SYRIZA to re-elevate callippi dividing lines into the Greek society. That is why SYRIZA, even through Mr Tsipras's mouth, restores the government of democratic and progressive forces. Of course, the Greek people have no memory of goldfish. The experience of the coexistence of the antimonist forces, which became the memorial of all, is very fresh and bitter. In case of a failure to form a government, there are no deadlocks. It comes from your common strategy and from the recent past. In 2015, in political instability and need to have a third memorandum, you found them fine, you found them SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK, so that there are the required majorities. After all, the electoral law currently brought by the New Democracy Government refers to major coalition scenarios. Because a party with 25% or 30%, which will get a bonus of twenty or thirty seats, objectively only with another big party can collide. The examples are many of the past. Let us remember how the New Democracy and the PASOK used to deal with it until they acted. SYRIZA, with the false proposal on simple analogues seeks to do so - and openly admits it - wider political shocks and consensus. On a number of occasions, his rapporteur has referred to it here both in committee and in plenary today. He is not, of course, the only one who formulates them. These reports on broader political shocks and consents are often formulated - densely, especially in recent years, by other members. Let me remind you of what SYRIZA spokesman said at the recent New Democracy conference. The SYRIZA's so deafening willingness to consent to other urban parties is the safest way to implement the harsh anti-grassroots policies for capitalist development, to upgrade the country's role in American plans and imperialist competitions. That is what BSE, the European Union, the United States and NATO are demanding. They work for them too! These pursuits are baptised "national strategy", trying to get people's consent to new sacrifices, even more bloody. They are baptising the extension of the murderous American bases from Souda to Alexandroupolis and the ratification of the shameful Greek-American agreement in the House as nationally beneficial, terrorizing the people that if they come out of the mantle, the wolf will eat him, while they have already pushed him into his mouth, involving the country and the people in incredibly dangerous adventures. Of course, this fairy tale has collapsed miserably. New Democracy and SYRIZA compete on who first pushed the people into the wolf's mouth, who prepared and who completed the agreement with the United States on bases. In any case, the misunderstandings for consensus show the depth and substance of this: Consensus for the interests of the bourgeoisie, business groups, imperialist designs and not of the people. The chain of involvement in their detestable plans complements it with the bridging of social security, the freezing of wages and pensions, with taxation, the lifting of any protection in the people's housing from auctions, the intensity of repression on immigrants and refugees, the authoritarianism that is growing at the expense of the labour movement. You know that the people will rise up their own stature and put a barrier to these catastrophic plans. That is why you seek, as quickly as possible, to shield the urban political system. This was pursued by the revision of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Republic, the strengthening of the administrative civil state, the enforcement of the doctrine of "law and order" by limiting the right of protests and the strike, the electronic enclave that lives and reigns, the modernisation of terrorists and Euro-terrorists, the mechanisms of ideological manipulation, employers' terrorism in the workplace. All these reactionary designs go hand in hand - by hand and by exploiting the electoral laws of either form, to blackmail the people, forcing the well-known phony: stable and strong government or government? This prospect is also served by the proposals of the Change Movement, with its proposal for a thirty-seat bonus in the first party, instead of fifty seats in the New Democracy, which obviously expects that future cooperation governments remain within the game. Mera25 rejects the New Democracy proposal and proposes the introduction of a mixed German-Austrian electoral system, adapted to Greek specificities, as it says. But his opposition does not begin with positions of principle. It presents it as a so-called democratic one, and in practice it is a majority. The two hundred and forty-two seats, he says, will be simple proportional and the other fifty-eight will be matched by a number of one-sided regions, not by a majority system, but by a vote of scalable preference. Indeed, it also proposes repeated elections, as in municipality, in order, as it says, to elect the least unwanted of all candidates. Maximum hypocrisy! It simply changes how the will of the electorate is distorted. The holding of the elections in conditions of one-sided regions will intensify the blackmailing dilemmas, strengthen the psychology of the lost vote and catch the slogan "vote the candidate of the New Democracy, so as not to come populists" or "vote SYRIZA, so that the right won't come out". Who's the bell ringing for? For the Communist Party of Greece. Well, as far as the proposal for a national independent election committee is concerned, I think it's for the show. It's, at least, funny. There is a lot of experience from so-called independent authorities that serve government policy, plunging the system into the eyes of the people. Consequently, the proposals from the other parties, apparently different from one another, result in the same denominator: to save and strengthen the political system. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the JRC is not sowing illusions to the people, telling him that the simple analogue is the medicine to radically change our political system. Even a fairer and proportional electoral system in itself cannot secure a prologue course, nor is it a solution to the major problems faced by the people and the country nor is it a means to promote philosophical governments. In many countries, reactive and anti-grass governments have been formed through mere proportional systems. The example of Italy is the most characteristic. Consequently, defending a more proportional system is necessary, but it is not in itself a capable treaty to classify a political force as progressive. There are urban anti-grass parties that support proportional systems, because they see in the political scene more potential government allies than their direct competitors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, give me a minute. From this point of view, the JRC's position in favour of purely proportional, has nothing to do with the attitude of the other parties, for which the defence of simple analogy is the means to play political games and seek political and government partners to continue the same policy. The key, therefore, to the people is not in the electoral system, since, within the walls, the governments - multi-party or one-party - will implement policies and measures at their expense. Positive developments can occur for the people only with organised struggle in the workplace, trade unions, people's organisations for the reorganisation of the working people's movement and social alliance on a line of questioning the rupture and overthrowing of the rotten system. It is the way to defend the direct, vital and future interests of the working class, all the poor people's strata, the way to free the people from life without rights, from life with crumbs, from exploitation, from the risk of wars, with the people in power and the owner of the wealth they produce. This, in our view, is the only response to the democratic caricature of capitalism, which is nothing but the institutional lizards of capitalism and profitability. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u530	Before I call in Stepma Mr. Mylonakis, I would like to tell you a few things, now that's a start. To set time for the roll-call vote to take place tomorrow, 24 January, I propose the following: The speakers - the list will be released - which has already been signed is a hundred and twenty. In order not to reduce Members' speaking time from the outset, we in the Bureau will, with complete delight, keep the time of seven minutes per speaker. And I would ask the groups very warmly to inform Members of this House from now on so that they can prepare for their intervention and do not exceed seven minutes at all. To start tomorrow from 9: 00 a.m. in the morning on the draft law, we will transfer tomorrow's parliamentary scrutiny for the next Friday 31 January. Today the debate will be closed at 1.00 p.m. No speaker will be allowed to move in from his turn. Whoever is not present at the time of his turn will be deleted. It cannot be done differently in such a long list that it must be completed. If you agree with this, we predict that the roll-call vote will take place tomorrow afternoon at 6 p.m., so that the country's colleagues can also be facilitated and not just. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u531	Changes of consensus can be made?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u532	Only if they are consensual, but the Bureau will be informed in good time. That's what always happens. We're not talking about it. The change will take place if the Bureau is informed and not'my colleague is not here...' etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u533	Mr President, may I make a proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u534	Don't make a proposal, because if we're going to work out proposals...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u535	Listen to me. Should we also put a number, to what extent will colleagues speak today, in the sense that those who are above that figure do not expect them to wait unfairly?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u536	Listen to something. We still cannot identify this because, for example, the Heads can speak at any time, as do the parliamentary representatives. That'll show at night. It can't be seen earlier - I'd say - since 21.00. One approach at that time we can do. The President-in-Office can see this, with the cooperation of the Secretariat of the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u537	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u538	Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u539	The voting time does not constitute the limit on which to delete, without wanting, speakers from the list, because it is often the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u540	We said you'd never be erased.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u541	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u542	They'll all talk. And I say now that 18 a.m. cannot be precisely determined. If you have to, it'll be 18.10 seconds or 18.20 seconds. However, we will all take care of that, not just the Bureau. In order for Members to be able to speak, there must be no excess. I, aside from the bell that rings at six minutes, will be given an oral notice that in a minute the time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u543	Mr President, can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u545	In your practice, Mr President, if I may, often - and this has given us personally - we agree from the outset that there will be six minutes of each of us speaking and therefore neither the risk of exclusion, nor the risk of going beyond the second day, nor of having problems of this kind. So if we agree to that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u546	We are looking at not limiting the right of the Member. The Member's right is seven minutes. We will observe this because we must respect ourselves as MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u547	But if I may, Mr President, the Member's right to vote is not to cut him off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u548	Well done. What we are saying now - and we agree, I think - is that colleagues should try - and, through information from the parliamentary groups, to keep the time. They've prepared a reason anyway. Let's get him ready for six minutes and not for seven, so they can end up in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u549	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u550	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u551	If you allow, although you refer to colleagues from a country, given the time you say about 18.00 hours tomorrow, you do not cover them at all. Actually, you're making them stay here this weekend.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u552	We've made a calculation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u553	Yes, you've made a calculation, but at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u554	This calculation, if the time is respected, is for the 18.00 hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u555	It's not coming out. It does not meet parliamentary obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u556	The MPs, if they keep seven minutes, take fourteen hours and seven minutes. We've taken the exact approach. But don't eat time. I think we agree in this general position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u557	Mr President, you are not taking into account...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u558	Look, we can't fix the time. Well, we're talking about 18:00 and we're not talking about 22:00. If we say exactly at 6 p.m., we will cancel what I said before to your colleague, that no speaker will be cut off. If we stop at that time, ten colleagues will not speak. It's not both. Don't insist. The first one proposed by me - and I saw that we all agree - is the best and can move on to the debate so that all colleagues can speak and now that we are approaching it. I will not say exactly how to achieve it, to approach it. It's up to all of us. I now give the floor to the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u559	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the logic is lacking. I have been watching for so long a cliff between the Bureau and the Members of Parliament. That's right, and the other one is right. Finally, since the debate on this bill brought about by the government, on electoral law, we have lost an hour and a half with constitutionalism, unconstitutionalism, etc. You're curious because you're gonna miss the car, you're gonna miss the bus, you're gonna miss the plane. You're right. Didn't you make the request for unconstitutionality? It's been so long, isn't it? So common sense says this: We all put a hand together to vote or not to pass this electoral law, to conclude the debate and to end it. The Greek Solution, ladies and gentlemen, since the first day that entered the House, promised something and this has done something about it. That is, not to make a structural opposition, but a creative opposition and contribute as much as it can for the good of the country and for the good of a broken Greek people. That's what we're doing now. We will talk about our positions and our final decision on the electoral law. Before I go to the electoral law, however, I want to say something to our National Representation. Minister, yesterday the inhabitants of Chios, Samos and Lesvos - all residents whether they are a New Democracy or a PASOK, whether they are a SYRIZA, whether they are a Greek Solution or a MERA25 - coming out to the streets, shouted out two screams: "Give back our islands, give back our lives." You want to vote on an election law. The electoral law will be passed. But the government says it brings the enhanced analogue only so that we can have governments that can govern the country and take the bonus for these parties or this party, which in the election period promises certain things to the Greek people and it gives him the opportunity to govern. But you promised, you took authority, and so are you. The question is not what electoral law will be in existence. The issue is the result of electoral law, and if this country and Greek citizens can be governed. Now we go to the electoral law, to see what New Democracy brings, to see the false dilemma and hypocrisy of SYRIZA, to see the fairy tale of the Change Movement and to say our own positions. First of all, the only ones who are stable in their programme - we must all admit that - are from the Communist Party of Greece. He says, "I want the simple analogy, without a motto." There is neither Mr Synthrakis nor my friend Thanasis Paphilis, to ask them this: do you want a simple analogue here, which we too want, but with a 3% plaque, where every movement with even 1%, 1.5% is in this Greek Parliament? Are we ever gonna figure it out? Let's think, in here there was a Muslim party - handkerchiefs from here, veils from there, chefs from there, on the other hand - if Antarsya were to be, a Albanian party, be the Golden Dawn. All of these would therefore be welcome for the JRC. Well, I think that no sensible person - and I always speak with logic - would want this situation to exist in the Greek Parliament. Do you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, think you brought the simple analogue? I don't think anyone would claim that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u560	It's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u561	You! Mr. Spirtzi, I told you, but you want to hear it again, because now you're crying. Crying's no use. You've been a government for four and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u562	We're not crying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u563	Are you crying? Crying the lady! You could have changed the electoral law and went with him in the September elections. So listen to what SYRIZA's electoral law says. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Let it go. Now, listen up. The electoral system is considered proportional - you say this in your explanatory statement - since the final percentage of the distribution of seats - has been told by Mr Pafilis before, but you have not heard it - does not deviate by more than 10% from the corresponding percentage of the vote, which has been taken together. Because they're just mathematics, if a combination receives a million votes, 10% is 100,000. So do you understand how much bonus it gets? Do you realize that the thirty seats Mr. Paphilis said are valid? Don't do that! Not to me. Let it go! If we're reasonable! To speak with reason. If we're talking about mere insanity, we'll talk about it. We're coming to the Change Movement now. The story of the story. You play the courgette. "No..." he says, "... we don't want fifty bonus seats maximum, we want thirty-five. We do not want 0.5%, we want one in one." So you're a reinforced analogue too. Now we're going to Mera25. As we said in committee and Mera25 wants a mixed system of proportionality. He doesn't just have analogy. Up to a point simply proportional, from there on, distributions begin differently, having bonuses. If you want, say it again, to hear all the Greek people, who have not heard it in committee. So no one in here is telling the truth. The JRC says its opinion. She's the real one. But it's for "go dogs salt and grinders don't give in here". Now we're going to our party. The Greek Solution, from the first moment - we have it in our programme - is in favour of mere analogy, with a 3% cap for national reasons. We've explained this thing. But - is there also a 'but' - is the Greek political system ready to accept a simple analogue? I'm asking. Will we be able to make three, four parties together? Because that means simply proportional. Possibly, Mr. Spirtzi - because you're looking at me and I know you're watching me well - if you need what I'm saying in the next election. And you know why? If New Democracy thinks it'll see more than 27%, 28% in the next election, it's a big mistake. Let's ask the Greek people. You want to talk about the economy? It's from bad to worse. See 'ERGANIS', see business balances and you'll understand what's going on. You want to talk about growth? No growth! Where's growth? There's businessmen in here. I was talking to Mr Villardo and he said 'the market is dry'. Isn't that right? That's right. The market is dry. Any businessman you can talk to, the same thing says. So we're not the irrational ones. There's something you don't do right. You want to talk about our national issues? One defeat on the other. Today, Akar, Turkey's Minister of National Defence, went out, and said, "sixteen islands to be demilitarised". It's one, two, three, four, five. Am I wrong? I'm not mistaken. You want to send on a mandate from the Americans - our President, Mr. Velopoulos, told you - a series of Patriots for anti-aircraft coverage in Saudi Arabia. We said - and I personally - to both the Minister and Mr Dendia - that I personally told Mr Panagiotopoulos that I saw him - 'Don't dare do this, dismantle a set of Patriots from the four, because a sector will remain uncovered and tomorrow we don't know what it is'. You want to talk about illegal immigration? There's no Greek anymore. There is no Greek! Don't be foolish, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Come with the logic of the Greek Solution. The population of Greece is altered. The world is shouting 'go back our lives'. Not all the Greek people are stupid. He's not absurd, he's not extreme. I will tell Mr Metarakis and Mr Kumouchakos, who go two - two like the Hiotes, that the next time elections are held, they will remember how much the Greek people are punishing them if they do not do what they promised. I would also say to Mr Mitaraki, who is from Chios and promised a lot. The Hiotes end, as the Samiots, the Lesbians and all the others end. And don't tell me that where he goes to the province, he wants to have the poaching Muslim next to him, who is not integrated and will never be incorporated into the Greek society. When! And I hear the absurds, "How have Albanians been integrated?" Other Albanian and other Muslim. We need to distinguish between concepts. Remember what I'm telling you. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Okay, well, don't listen to me. There is no longer a Greek citizen who stands out for ideologies. What you're saying is a joke ideologies. Do you want to talk about security? To what security of the citizen, Minister? Every day we have five arsonists, ten cars burning. Why? Because you did not clean up from the beginning once and for all the Exarchias, but you were distracted to do the good to the anarcholite, who have taken over the buildings and yelling in there and throwing molotovs. What did these 'goods' do now? They're leaving. He tells you: "You're kicking me out of the center, from Exarchia, where are we? We'll fix you up. One in Voula, one in Glyfada, one in Maroussi, one in Kifisia, a regional one, until you hurt." The Greek people will be reluctant, because anyone who loses his car or burns himself, until with security he gets new or if he can get new, will walk to his work and will not be able to serve his needs. Do you understand what's wrong with you? That's all, if you'd listened to us, you wouldn't have had it. You're not listening to us. It's okay. Something else. The former Prime Minister was selfish, Mr. Mitsotakis did not understand what illegal immigration means. You will understand it once and for all when the elections are coming, because until then Greece and the Greek people will be destroyed. Start doing what we tell you to do. Make the Australian model. Firstly, do not bring these illegal immigrants to mainland Greece and secondly, empty the islands and put them on two, three uninhabited islands, until they are completed - in one, two, three months - the asylum procedure, to take them boats, to get them where they belong, to where they came from. Let us tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what we have decided, after a lot of thought, even though it is of interest to us at the moment - we are a party which is on a great rise - the simple analogue. We believe that the simple analogue is the fairest system, with a 3% wall, but what is the right thing for Greece and the Greek people these days and the next few years? It is a system with which the country can be governed, a country which comes out after ten years of hard budgetary adjustment. The Greek citizen is completely invaded, and soon the big auctions will be opened, and then woe and alas to those who owe them, because they have loans to the banks and they cannot pay. First of all, therefore, with this law that the government goes down, a high-rate party is able to implement the programme which the Greek people promise and for which it is chosen. Secondly, the chances of power being an end in itself are diminished. Example ANEL and not only, DIMAR or other small parties, which had a culture, the attitude of "I want to rule with whoever it is and whatever it is". It doesn't matter if it's left or right, I'll rule even though I'm ideologically opposite, as long as I have the spoon. The spoon there and the chair. Just stuff. We don't want that. We could do it, but we didn't come here to do that kind of activism. We're here to rule. If we can and will come the Greek people and understand that they must come next to the Greek Solution, well. Otherwise, we're going to our house. We don't have a problem. We're neither professional politicians. Thirdly, the possibility of two, three or four parties entering opportunities, giving and receiving is minimised. What I give you, what you give me. Take five ministries, take two ministries, take one, take the other. Continuous elections, which have economic costs and political instability, are avoided, also bring insecurity to the people. We, ladies and gentlemen, say again that in our programme we are in favour of a simple 3% plaque, but because our country is in this position today, with national issues open, with illegal immigration having such a huge problem, which we will have for the next few decades, for all these reasons, which I mentioned, we decided to say yes to the electoral law brought by the government even though it is not the fairest system, but at the moment it is the system that our country needs to govern. This is the decision of the Greek Solution and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u564	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 4th General School of Volos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u565	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the electoral system is the fact that, over time, it has been the subject of strong political confrontation and an indiscriminate proof that the parliamentary groups do not want to find any scope for consensus and convergence. We will agree with the New Democracy MPs that, in fact, the Prime Minister had announced his intention to proclaim a change in the electoral system. However, this is not a serious argument and ground for what has been followed. It does not justify the time that the government chooses to promote this reform, nor does it guarantee the full absence of consultation, even among the groups themselves, nor does it guarantee the correctness of the proposal. We therefore believe that this is a desecrated move, which is trying to create some convenient fait accompli, in line with the New Democracy's own reading and forecasts on the results of the next elections. This is not the first time the government has been in a hurry since it took over power. We'd say rushing is the rule of government. The major problem, however, is that the government is not taught by the failures that have been inherited precisely by this rape. You have urged to abolish the Ministry of Migration Policy and now bring it back. You have urged to weaken the Ministry of Justice, now you understand the mistake and you are folding. You have urged us to tell us how much better the economy is, while what we are seeing is an increase in unemployment and a reduction in purchasing power. You also urged to tell us how much improved the health situation when what we see in hospitals is to close, suspend, with basic shortages of personnel and equipment. Beumerang, therefore, has become the weakness of this government, but despite the blows that are returning to you, you continue. Unfortunately, these blows are pounded above all the Greek citizens, since the political impression that the government is following is finally being orchestrated. It is worth informing us all, colleagues of the New Democracy, of what is happening, and since we had elections what has intervened and the psychology in your party has changed so much. While celebrating in July you declared that you are the great winners and that you clearly closed the "left parentheses" and that you came ready with strong self-reliance and clear popular command, this command seems to have snatched. We say this because completely unexplained as early as August has started a paraphilogy, which has finally proved very reliable, with early or double elections scenarios, as is heard by various government officials in their interviews. Politics has therefore escalated even during the revision. Since then, the government has been using the term and rhetoric of rulership too much and so many times that it has taken the lead from the other the government's slogan that is regularity and that is already unfolding like a bucket, which wants to tie backwards and the logic and the rule of law. You have, therefore, raised, like the Greek Solution, the rhetoric of rulership in a bench, as to guarantee this rulership and the system you are promoting, the favoured state of Plato. Even constitutionalists, as my colleague Mr Lappas quite rightly said about Mr Sorelis, say that cybercrificy in no way makes the premium to be tolerated in the first party, much more so when this party, on the basis of the votes taken, does not even approach the possibility of obtaining self-reliance. So we believe that this rhetoric is a fine pretext, a pretext that outweighs the anti-democratic system which the government is going to push forward and which the Greek Solution is squeezing, which on the one hand says that it regards as a mere analogue as the fairest system, but which will ultimately vote in favour of the enhanced analogue, a reasonable illogicality. No, it's not a national interest, it's just to cover the small-party intentions of the New Democracy. In the last few days, the government has even been recruiting a leading member and minister of government, who has told us that for the first time an important condition has been formed after forty years. What is now, under certain conditions, can shape conditions to overthrow the hegemony of the left, to strengthen the ideological hegemony of the right and keep the government not only but also our ideas sovereign in Greece. So the neoliberal New Democracy quota is having dystopic nightmares and even full of propaganda monsters, which we believe has even drawn the most spunky, obsolete, cold war brush. You did what Umberto Echo stacked in "Manufacturing the enemy". You are creating artificial risks out of nowhere to disorientate public opinion by divisive ideologies, and that is what we consider to be a very bad example of government writing. So what should we believe? That you really feel winners? And if the government feels a winner, why is he acting like a loser? What's he more afraid of? He's given the Prime Minister the ERT, the state of the end. It has repeatedly legislated in breach of any rule of good law. You have, in short, imposed political tactics with unprecedented support, of course, from the systemic media, and the Civic Anti-Civilisation is more concerned, in the context of an introversion, with its home. Ultimately, what the government fears is the citizens and their patience. Because, at the same time as you allow pure neoliberal and extreme reactionary elements to chalk in the New Democracy and make a public speech, representing your ideologically and politically, you understand that this is displeased by another critical group of the electorate, which part of it supported you in July, but no longer approves what it sees happens in the past six months. Rather, the government is still afraid of something else, of the bankruptcy of its own ideology in the eyes and minds of the world, of a bankruptcy that is already realizing it abroad, even the ideological patriarchs themselves, who once again call the just final prevalence of the consolidation of neoliberalism and the markets, and you were cheering and applauding, and are now talking about the need for pluralism and socialism. The most impressive thing is that they talk about the redistribution of wealth. So instead of the bill, for the pluralism that ensures us a better democracy and gives each one's vote an equitable vote, the government is looking, at all costs, to make its own property. It promotes an oligopoly, which is disastrous for the country and the people. It is, of course, very beneficial for an elite of power, which suits it to hear as few voices as possible. Because, the less voices are heard, the better for the government, since the less her sins are revealed. So in the altar of a false chaos of government, people's sovereignty, democratic principle, representativeness and proportionality are sacrificed. In this respect, it is worth mentioning the case of Italy, where the constitutional court with a recent decision in 2014 ruled that the premium for the first party with additional seats than those for which it is responsible, in order to obtain an absolute majority of the seats, violates the principle of equal voting and proportionality. The lack of the constitutional court is, of course, a great institutional gap in Greece. We also stressed this in the Review. New Democracy's arguments have been completely degraded at committee meetings. I would remind you of two things: firstly, the powerful governments of so many decades, jealous of the current government, are that they eventually became Greece's debt-government, while the co-operation governments finally seemed more stable and less arbitrary, precisely because of the need and the achievement of consensus. Secondly, these assertions of practicability have been disproved by political science itself, as I analysed in detail in committee. The scientists themselves, political scientists, call myths what the government tells us in danger of powerlessness. So there is neither insolence nor disorganization nor necrosis of everything. What is behind everything is the will to attach to power, which is why we regard any arguments of political hypocrisy. I shall now come to our proposal, which we consider to be the victim of a hasty, presumptuous criticism of various different people, just to create impressions. It is my duty, therefore, to repeat all those which I have said to the committee, on the one hand, because the people are listening to us and, on the other hand, to understand more fully and, on the other hand, to say that they did not understand or misunderstood, in order not to overstood, in short, the debate by micro-party inaccurate and regularisms. So what does our proposal say? Firstly, responsibility and responsibility for organising and holding elections, such as, for example, the appointment of the Electoral Regions, is assigned to a National Elections Committee, is thus dissociated from the Ministry of the Interior and from party views, as is necessary both from the need for transparency and from the unbroken process. The members of the Committee shall be appointed for a six-year term of office to a special consultative body of deputies and elected citizens. The composition of the committee includes twenty judges, twenty confiscated citizens, who have an election right and twenty members, appointed by the parliamentary parties on the basis of their parliamentary power. Even here, then, we respect the analogy. Secondly, no walls, no door to the House. Thirdly, the unfair and scientificly inappropriate alphabetical order in the ballots is abolished. Candidates will be listed randomly, according to an automated system of algorithmic randomisation, which the Elections Committee itself will apply. Fourthly, two polls, one for the major multi-storeys and one for the minor mono-strategic regions. Fifthly, twenty-three-thirds of the population is balanced, evenly equal, of major chaired regions, elected by ten Members each by a single proportional and up to four crosses in each ballot. Two hundred thirty MPs are thus elected. So far there is no removal from the simple analogue. Sixth, twelve Member States elected in exact proportion to the result obtained by the parties in the twenty-three major multi-departments. So far here, it is a consequence of the simple analogue. Seventh, fifty-eight single-sided regions, broken down throughout the territory by voting on preference. Describe a little more practical how this system works. Among the many systems, there are purely majority. There, then, is the winner, who has gathered the relative majority among the candidates, that is, who receives the majority. For example, if a person receives 15% and yet he is first, because the rest received less, he is elected. That, of course, is not proportionate. That is why the systems have come up with the escalation of preference we are proposing. In fact, most of the rounds we would have had in repetitive elections are condensed in one process. So a single ballot is being created by candidates from all parties and the candidate is finally elected, who will be the most desirable, will have the broadest possible acceptance of the electors. How does such a system apply? So in every single chair, as I said before, we have a common ballot for all candidates with a maximum of two per component. Voters shall write the number ‘1’ next to the name of the candidate who is their first preference, if they so wish, the number ‘2’ to the second preference, ‘3’ to the third preference and so on. When sorting the lists are divided into piles per candidate, according to the first preferences received. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President. If at this point a candidate's stack corresponds to the '50% plus 1' of the first preferences, then he is elected. If not, the applicant with the least preferences is withdrawn and his stack is redistributed to those who have received the second preference. If now, a candidate's stack corresponds to '50% plus 1', then he is elected. If not, we proceed to the third preference in exactly the same way, i.e. by taking out the latter, first preferences and redistributing the stack among the remaining ones. So until then, a candidate's pile corresponds to '50% plus 1' of the lists, we proceed in the same way as I have described, i.e. with successive exclusions and reallocations. So we will end up electing a Member of Parliament to the one-sided one who has received the greatest combined preference among the candidates of all parties. The most desirable is therefore elected as a whole. As it is one-sided, the simple analogue wants to show the "50% plus 1" one. So he is proposing that we also show ourselves. So in the small one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-way over and another together with more information from the electorate, so that there is just a wider explanation of voters and also local accountability. Fifty-eight Members, therefore, will emerge from corresponding one-sided ones with a mere analogy and not with the well-known crusade. Therefore, our proposal on all its implications always leads to a simple analogue. We believe that there is no margin either voluntary or inadvertent misinterpretation. What we are proposing is much closer to the real simple and unadulterated proportion. It is a system that respects the will of the citizens both at the state level and at the local level, where it is widely reflected in relation to the composition of the House. So this system of scalable preference means that people are chosen and not just that a unit of MP is assigned, regardless of which party and which party from the very random regions. Among the counter-problems which have been heard, we will accept, as a more serious argument, the objection by the Deputy Minister of Lebanese to the committee last time that it is a little difficult, is not so much applicable - at least at the moment - that system, because it creates some burglary in relation to the regions as it has formed. That is why we have foreseen as an insurance policy the definition of regions by the National Commission, which is composed of the members I mentioned after consultation, i.e. by fully democratic procedures. I close my position with two findings worth having them in mind. First of all, it is a major institutional vacuum that the constitutional text itself has not provided for the procedural restrictions on the possibility of changing the electoral system, depending on the actual or alleged interests of the parliamentary majority. This is because the choice of the electoral system has finally been the achilles heel of the same consensus democracy. These constitutional restrictions, as quite rightly indicated - the Special Rapporteur of the Change Movement - provided them for in the Constitution of 2001, would be the right option, given the lack of a political consensus that would in this way require consultation between the parties on such important issues. The second finding is about a statement by Noam Chomsky. So he said: "As you know, there is a lot of excitement on the left for various election irregularities, beatings, counting errors and others. All of this is correct and is of some importance, but much more important is that the elections do not take place in any real sense the term “elections” and with very little respect for the choice of voters”. So it seems that the majority will confirm Noam Chomsky, even today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u566	The Secretary of State for Home Affairs, Mr Lebanon, has asked for the floor for a small intervention. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u567	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two points. Firstly, I would like to table a series of small legislative improvements in the law. They are basically the observations of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, they do not change anything about the substance. Where he said some provisions on 'partnerships' would be about 'elections'. It's completely minor. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. I would ask that they be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u568	I would like to make two comments at the moment on what has been said. Firstly, the electoral law comes shortly after the first six months of the elections on 7 July, and there is no political horizon, without anyone knowing what is going to happen in three and a half years when elections are to take place. A government official, by the way, has spoken of early elections and the rest is not there and will not exist. There are more serious things that the government needs to deal with and they are the real problems that the world has. I think it is now going beyond our practice as a voter, six months after the elections with a government with a majority of fifty-eight Members, to discuss elections again. Elections will be held at the end of the four-year period. They will be, yes, with simple analogy, Mr Spirtzi, and if we do not agree and if we see the result, then we will judge and see what will go further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u569	We're pleased about the self-criticism you're doing when you were asking for elections every week. And now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u570	They had changed, not every week... But I would remind you of what was said in 2015 in the election and what happened the next day. Secondly, listen to one criticism: SYRIZA did not vote for the electoral law in good time and voted for it in the second term after the September 2015 elections. We have said so in committee too. You had plenty of time in the first eight months, since you were so fond of mere analogy to bring the simple analogy. Do you know why you wouldn't bring her? First of all, because after a point it seemed something was wrong. Secondly, because you were popularly 40% and New Democracy was at 18%, so it was fine that made us the bonus and, thirdly and most importantly, you brought the bill in July 2016, you were just four and five points back. What did you vote for in the first semester? To understand as ideologically compatible with you to pass the law on the humanitarian crisis, to vote on various laws. You brought a law to the Greek industry of Zacharis, you brought a law on payment orders. You have had a month's vacancy without legislative work. You could well find a place to bring an election law. Two paragraphs are, it's not a serious job. I also heard the accusation that there was no consultation. In fact, the parties are talking about electoral law, and it is a key element, if you like, of their own identity. Recently, before the bill was tabled, all opinions had been expressed in time. The opinion of Mera25 was missing, which tabled its own proposal, a returning German system. We listened carefully. I think, however, that, once there is a certain majority, which blocks the immediate implementation of the electoral law, it would be a completely specious and virtual dialogue, which will in fact have no benefit. We have shown and showed it and all together in the vote of the non-Greek voters, and in the election yesterday of the President of the Republic. You know what, though? To discuss when there is given the refusal of a hundred Members for any other electoral law, other than simple analogous, I think it makes no sense. I would point out that it is not the end of institutional intervention, particularly the part, which is the so-called election. It's a first step. There'll be more to follow. It will also follow a law on the finances of the election campaign, on the rationalisation of electoral spending and a series of adjustments to the rules of the election campaign in modern reality. In closing, I would like to remind you of what electoral law you brought in. You brought an election law saying it's just proportional and that that's what the people want. I have a question for you. From November 20, 1977, the Greek people have not given anyone self-reliance? Didn't he want any self-powered government? Andreas Papandreou would take fifty - one seats with this electoral law in 1981. In 1993 he would get a hundred forty - seven seats. Who would have made a government with? With the Communist Party of Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u572	Didn't that happen again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u573	Have you asked them? Would he make a government with the Spring Policy or with the New Democracy? Secondly, in 2000, for example: 44% first party. In 2004: 45.4%, a history of high votes that has ever taken part in Greek history, 3.326 million votes. With 45%, isn't a party entitled to have an self-powered government? This law gave a hundred and forty - three seats. 45.4% practically means a hundred forty-three seats. And because it's of special interest to see something specific. Let us say the example of 2004: one hundred and forty - three seats New Democracy has in this House the PASOK, the Coalition and the JRC. What kind of government would happen? Who would agree with who? [[Noise in the Chamber]] You haven't asked Mr. Synhronakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u574	You cannot foresee the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u575	I don't foresee the future. I'm saying another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u576	Minister, do not provoke dialogue. Tell your place without...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u577	What I'm saying is that, on the basis of real election results, this electoral law was driving the country in power every time. In September 2015, four parties had to co-operate. You two were back then and last month you've been stealing a congressman with the prick and taking him out of here and taking him out of there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u578	The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr Claus Gregoriadis was asked for the floor. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u579	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think - and this time I am addressing all of us, all of our parties and my fellow Members and my companions in Mera25, but also myself - that the fundamental problem of today's debate is essentially one simple question: will we continue to accept the three hundred, representing the Greek people in this House, our vote to count more than the vote of some of our other compatriots? Yes or no? It is - let me say - a fundamental question for our own democracy. I'll impersonate this thing for you to feel deeper. Will our conscience continue to be okay with the fact that my vote, for example, currently counts more than Mrs Koutsouba's vote or from Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou's vote? Will we continue to be able to claim here from this Step forward that, while the vote of each of us three hundred, but also of our voters, counts more than the votes of our two fellow citizens and their voters, of course, do we continue to have a representative democracy? Because if the votes of those who chose ADARSYA or the Movement of Freedom to represent them were counted the same as our own votes, then these two parties would have several MPs today, who would be here in this Parliament of the Greeks between us. I think, therefore, from him alone, the mere reasoning I have just given you is self-evident that, as long as our country's electoral law contains any element of strengthening proportionality, our country has not yet reached democracy. So, I'm looking at you right now, from here all in your eyes, and I'm asking you: Are we okay with our conscience at night when we fall asleep in our bed? Can we sleep in peace with our souls lightly, while we know that some of us in here have only found themselves in the carelessness of our fellow citizens, who have never chosen us for their representatives? I know that most of you - perhaps all of you - have received really high-level education. Through this education and education, I am sure - and you often prove it in here - you have participated in the spirit of our global culture, the culture of our humanity. I am also sure that the deepest of your average compatriot contact with this global human culture has given you sensitivities, principles and ideals. I would also like to believe that, regardless of the fact that this sensitivity, the principles and ideals have led most of you to enter politics, mainly in order to offer what you can in society and its citizens each with its powers. So I am looking at you again in the eyes and I ask you all straight away: Our Assycholo, our great tragedy - the greatest one in most analysts - reminded us that he stopped writing tragedies to get his shield and spear and go to fight in Marathon, Salamis Naval, as before in the battle of Artemis, and when he returned from the battle of Salamis he wrote his most important possible tragedy, the Persians, which was presented to the Great Dionysiasia and, at the same time, only seven years after the Naval battle of Salamis on the epic drama of the defeated opponents, established and even formulated by the rival, that of the Persians, and not his or the Greeks, while delivering at the same time, cultural, humanism and solidarity. Do you think or believe that our Assyllus would ever be willing to accept that almost two and a half thousand years ago the vote of any Athenian citizen would weigh even a gram less than his every time he voted with the nineteen thousand ninety ninety fellow citizens in the Church of the Municipality? Of course, you will now tell me: "Hey, do not compare us with the ancients! These people were very ahead of us." Can you imagine, for example, how far ahead of us, after a victorious Greek-Turkish war our Mikis Theodorakis or our Nikos Kazantzakis, that is, the drama of the defeated Turks, described only on their part and while still smoking around our children's fresh graves, our children? No, of course, probably we, the new Greeks, would hang both of us here next to Syntagma Square, here outside. These ancient people, who were safe and secure in front of us, arrived in the "Golden" century of the four hundred years before Christ was born, walking right on their absolutely direct democracy. As you know, of course, all of you did not even agree to elect representatives. They represented themselves each time. They had succeeded since then in being participatory citizens and lifting their own responsibility for their existence. Doesn't that remind you of anything? I guess not. But it reminds me of me and it reminds me of me. It reminds me of the DISCIPs, namely, the participation councils of the citizens that we have been proposing for seven months to replace a large part of the citizens' representation from the political forces and from the parties in our country. Since, ladies and gentlemen, power comes from the people and ends up with the people, the people must finally be able to decide themselves without any representative. But until we get there, in a very short-term future that will bring us strangely at the same time and two and a half thousand years back in the past, I think it would be better to stop, at least, stealing the votes of our compatriots. Now, then, I will only look into the eyes of our former SYRIZA comrades to ask you: Did you guys seriously have the opportunity to change the electoral law and leave the 3% plaque that prevented the last six parties from entering our Parliament? What does this reasoning have to do with the Left? What can this logic of cybercrificy have to do with inequality and injustice, with any left? Don't tell me that this is how the House would enter and the Golden Dawn, because I'll answer you directly, as I always do. The way, in the view of the Left, to put a barrier to a criminal organization like Golden Dawn, is not to steal it by parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The way is not to adopt her agenda under any circumstances and to justify it not having lost votes there. I'm not saying it, of course, for you. I'm talking about the others. My dear companions, I will tell you detachment and listen to it: No relationship exists with the Left in this practice that you followed when you changed the electoral law. The simple analogue without a motto was a necessary and self-evident precondition. You had your chance, as you had in our much larger national issue of homicide, with 62% - not the referendum - and you lost them both. Now you continue to support how to prevent them from entering the House of six parties, which, if the vote of their constituents weighed the same as ours, would have been a reasonable price, in order to achieve governance? Does this political perception have anything to do with the Left? He doesn't. If you heard that criticism about Civicism, what should you think about, ladies and gentlemen, and what about the government, the government of a party that governs our place in turn with PASOK, today's KINAL, from 1974 onwards? Since, in 2004, the PASOK of Mr Costas Simitis, on the pretext of the then Monti government, will return to this concept - which, supposedly, required self-responsibility - and this concept returns - has taken up the completely - for the expression - twisted idea of stealing forty MPs from various parties, but above all from the second, and offering them in the first place, in 2008, your prolongation, the prolongation of the New Democracy, took over the perverse idea of this perverted idea and with Prime Minister at that time Kostas Karamanlis and the responsible Minister of Interior - I am sorry to say it - the missing President of our Republic, Prokopi Pavlopoulopoulos, and in view of the obsolete memorial memorials that were now before the gates, using the same - a mere pretext of the necessity of government, extended the existence of the Greek people from the 50th century to the 50th century. Excuse me, but I wonder what would prevent you from further extending this logic to create an electoral law that would suffice to elect a single MEP and be able, because of the well-known "declared" of government, to donate yourself with "so I want" the remaining two hundred ninety nineteen. To say this more clearly, if you can sleep in peace and feel democrats in New Democracy stealing from the Greek people in cold blood and presenting them here as their own representatives, but without these people being like them, why can't you sleep alone if on the same logic you have even stolen a hundred or even two? I'm asking you, that is, if you know to tell me what exactly the number is, according to your conscience, the thing is immoral, dishonest, unacceptable, unfair and unworthy for us people. Most importantly, however, I ask you to answer exactly which number this practice for you is at last overwhelmed by your common sense or, if you prefer, by your right word. Excuse me again, but how do you guys agree to steal votes? At school I remember that the excellent guys didn't copy, that the spraps, the ones who, instead of sitting around reading, fighting, stole the fighting and reading of their other classmates. They weren't the perfect ones, they were the bitches. So do you seriously continue to talk about democracy in here, with the benefit of the sixth of the Members of the Greek Parliament with the bonus? Do you realize that if we add the 3% cap, which is still stealing about eighteen with twenty Members from the small parties this time, then these stolen votes total more than a million Greek voters? Let's talk for a while about the myth of rulership. First of all, I beg your pardon, but the way you rule and the moments come that one thinks 'better without any rulership'. I'm kidding! Second, though, and to speak seriously, what is the logic, what is the philosophy behind the argument of the need for all sacrifices of rulership? It is, of course, the logic and philosophy of the immaturity of citizens, the logic of "Unfortunately, many have no mind or make-up to avoid choosing chaos. So, we, the few and wise, who know their interest and their confidence, that these ignorant ones are confused and cannot understand, are grabbing them 50 Members - I repeat with the absolutely'so I want' - and we correct the situation for the benefit of the country'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I am going to use my dentistry. Well, I'll be done in two minutes. Now that you are listening to this political practice, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you realize how dangerous it is? Do you realize that, in fact, it's a assumption that our representative democracy does not make you? Do you realize that it is like saying openly to the Greek people that you are forced to suffer our democracy in order to keep the pretexts and save the guys while in fact you are not looking for it at all? We have been claiming for years that there will be absolutely no insolence and that the political forces will be forced by the people's mandate and by the self-evident burden of its responsibility to find conflicting paths, to come to an agreement. In fact, we expect the governments that will emerge to self-control by the individual parties that make them up, and therefore that they will be at risk from less than the well-known phenomena of interlocutory and corruption and, on the other hand, that they will be securely more representative than the Greek people. Of course, we can discuss this in theory for months. What you should be clear to us today, however, at the very latest tomorrow evening, is if you are ultimately democrats, if you believe in democracy, because the logic of'many people are always immortal and need few, experts, to guide them wisely and safely, are forced to mock them, always for their own good, but' is a logic that surrounds the oligarchy most. Another city. So if you prefer the oligarchy to democracy, you have to tell us so that we know it. Your argument about insolence, however, tells us that you prefer oligarchy. If you would like, therefore, to disprove this suspicion from above, you should immediately abandon this argument. Unfortunately, I fear that you cannot change your argument, because I am even more afraid that there is no other argument in this world to support your reasoning. It was your only, ladies and gentlemen, and now that you have lost it, we can look into your eyes again and finally say: yes, it has just proved to be. You are here and you are ruling your debt-government, trustees not of the Greek people - at least 50 MPs from the bonus and about twenty more from the 3% cap - but only the parasitic oligarchs who have been engaging in our homeland for centuries. That's why you're stealing nicely with the law of our democracy, because you don't believe it and you're just pretending it, to serve more efficiently the oligarchy of which you were and you're always fanatical fans. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u580	Since we are now entering the list of fellow Members, I would like to inform you that parliamentary representatives, such as Mr Gregoriadis, are entitled to any protagonist for twelve minutes. But they also have a second one. The Bureau takes note of the lack of time for dentistry, both in order to keep Members' time, in the seven minutes, and also in the parliamentary delegations. We shall now proceed to the list of Members of Parliament. I invite Mr. Georgios Kotsos from New Democracy to Step for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u581	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, a bill on one of the most emphatic pre-election commitments of our party and Mr Mitsotakis is being discussed today, but also our basic ideological and political principle, the abolition of the law of simple proportionality brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL government, and the vote of an electoral law preventing insolence and dangerous acrobatism, in order to ensure the formation of a parliamentary majority, but also at the same time to ensure stability in the country. Here to note that the current electoral law was passed by the SYRIZA - ANEL government, then making use of the bonus of the fifty seats given to them by the previous law. And, of course, we must also note that the project of mere analogy has also been tested in local government and the results have been concrete. The risk of insolence was enormous, so that the New Democracy Government would be forced to restore order and in particular to enable mayors, in municipal authorities, to operate through Law 4623/2013. Here to note that today's legislation follows on from our election commitment to a direct change in the electoral law and, as is next, it has substantial and complete social and political legitimacy, because the Greek people knew in the elections of 7 July that by voting for the New Democracy, which gave it a strong government majority, it would go ahead with a change in the electoral law. In addition, New Democracy is one of the two parties currently present in Parliament, with more than two parliamentary presences together with the JRC, which have fixed positions on the electoral system over time. Our strong faith is the possibility through the electoral system of achieving strong governance by the first party, since it can achieve a certain electoral rate. Evidently, then, we don't surprise anyone. We remain inextricably stable in our political and ideological views and positions. In our country, since the establishment of the Greek state until now, fifteen different electoral systems have been introduced. The electoral system in question is, of course, defined by the current electoral law, because there is no constitutionally guaranteed rule. Of the fifty-five votes now that have taken place over time, forty-five were made by a majority system and only eight by simple proportional or simple proportional. This demonstrates very clearly the need for such a system over time, as well as the admissibility over time of the risk of coerciveness from simple analogues, because imagine that from the time the Greek state was established to date, the New Democracy has not been the one that has always ruled. All political parties - or their large majority - over time believe and believe that there must be strong governance, strong government, but at the same time a strong majority within the House. The only constitutional requirement in force is that the current law, the one to be voted on, should go to the next parliamentary term. And that was right, ladies and gentlemen, because you will all remember that in 1989, when PASOK saw that it was losing the elections, with the Kuchsaw law, which was a form of mere analogous, it led the country to about ten months in power. It took three returning elections. In fact, then, Constantine Mitsotakis was getting extremely large percentages that were touching and 48% were unable to make a government! The same would, of course, happen if in the last elections we had the system, which is today, the simple analogue. Today there would be insolence on the substance of the matter. And find me combinations and connections that could provide effective government with this House. The main axis of the electoral system is clearly and must be the free education of the electorate's opinion. The voter votes on how he would like to be governed, on the basis of what each party announces in an election. The mere proportional system ensures the will of the electorate at the time when they do not know which parties will enter into beforehand and with what election commitments, so that they can deliver on the substance what the electorate wants by means of its vote on the programme of convergences? No, of course, because the connections or, if you like, the shocks can arise through bargains, through agreements, through any other procedure, which will only reflect the will of the electorate before. Besides, lovers of simple analogy insist on how this creates the necessary synergies and convergences. But there is a recent experience, the SYRIZA-ANEL cooperation. Please tell me what ideological convergence or identification of these two parties was pre-electioned. The only adhesive was the mania of power. The result of what was it? The result was the big party to absorb the little one. So small parties will have to think very much throughout this process about whether and whether or not the simple analogue favours them. Greece, coming out of the ten-year economic crisis, needs political stability, stable economy, clear geopolitical, social justice, strong and firm government. This is how the New Democracy comes to establish a electoral system that will create a new relationship of confidence between the citizen and politics. Of course, it also has the following important points: analogous distribution of seats as long as the first party has a small election rate, less than 25%. From there, there are the well-known bonuses - not to mention them - that reach the level of government with a percentage of the first party close to 38%. Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral law we are proposing is close to the one that has been implemented in the country for nearly fifteen years, giving governments of different political parties, as well as cooperation where it was required. After all, our government has shown itself to be in favour - I am ending with a final phrase - of constant convergence and cooperation throughout parliamentary life. This has also been demonstrated by the election of the President of the Republic. This was also demonstrated by the law on the vote of the homosexuals. I invite you to vote in favour of the electoral law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u582	Thank you very much. I've been calling in Stepma Mr. Socrates Famello from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u583	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the electoral system shows and reveals at the same time the identity of each party, the democratic DNA of each party. The New Democracy, loyal to the right hand tradition, with its current proposal, but also over time, has shown that it underestimates democratic principles when it is going to serve its own closely selfish party interests, which are very simply power management, service and transaction with a very small, closed oligarchy. The right-wing time was also disobedient to the free will of society, which, when it is not in its interest, deceives it. On the other hand, I think it is clear that SYRIZA and the Left, loyal to its timeless traditions and values and regardless of the electoral interests, tabled and voted for the simple and inappropriate proportion long before the elections, three years in 2016 with L.4406. In this way it has demonstrated the ideological superiority of progressive and left-wing policy, as well as the respect we have in democratic values and institutions, unlike New Democracy, which, even as a government, did not respect the institutions when it put the Government representative, Mr Petsa, announcing in the celebrations that there will be a simultaneous debate on the electoral system and the President of the Republic, which as a cold shower, a Scottish shower and the KINAL rapporteur admitted it in its place to committees. Toys with institutions, high democratic values. But what is New Democracy's argument? First of all, lawlessness. But note hypocrisy: Without ever having been given the opportunity for Greece to have a government with the simple analogue, they create a hypothetical enemy and have - if you like - the courage even in self-government, after elections and while representatives of Greeks have been elected for communities and municipalities, to change the way in which decisions are taken by intervening in the electoral system. On the other hand, however, let us look at this: the strengthened - analogous - why is it not proportional - what results did it give? You've heard of them, of course. Memories, bankruptcy. This morning we were discussing a timely question. May I mention two things that the whole House deserves to hear? The well-known triangle of self-resistance, the media triangle, banks and governments, which you have served for many years, has left EUR 533,000 unpaid parties loans today. These, you know, are the results of the strengthened - analogous, self-reliable governments, together with the memoranda and bankruptcy. But the essence is the political selfishness of the New Democracy. That's the motive. It's not governmentality. Because the New Democracy sees politics not commendably, but only how it will ensure its chair and chair and its political leaders. Thus, however, it feeds and multiplies unreliability in society. Because the only goal of the New Democracy and the right-wing party over time is to reproduce the political system that has failed Greece. Should we tell you the basic features? Political professionalism, professional MPs. Hello, Minister? Family domination not only in the position of parliamentarians, but also in the positions of Prime Ministers, with a family ring being judged by the Prime Minister. Rusfetti, complexity, state-owned economy and not a competitive economy, nor an economy for the benefit of home and GDP. "Abstracts" with the media, so nobody can speak. Government appointed by BSE and - let me say it - a number of political servants who, regardless of their political ideological origin, accumulate themselves for the chair and to serve the survival of the system. In practice, the New Democracy is perhaps evolving into one of the most vulgar expressions of right-wing politics, no matter how much it sells - backwards - at the propaganda point for its democratic identity. There is no value to the government today, no worthy background. There is only the objective of society's deception to make a transaction by the government with limited interests and a propaganda veil to cover all of this. Evidence is the debate on the constitutional review, which shows values. The New Democracy has not agreed to vote on an article that abolishes discrimination based on gender identity, based on orientation, which is sober in Europe. I am sorry, Mr. Secretary, have you not been ashamed to accept anything that all of Europe has solved? The New Democracy has not agreed to discuss the restriction of parliamentary immunity. Why? Because you have professional MPs. That's all we can tell the world to know who he has to talk about. Has it not agreed to enter the clarification statement on the responsibility of Ministers for why? In order that the ministers do not have the responsibility of making deals, that is, bribery and bribery, to be in the process of being served by a minister. At the same time, however, the New Democracy has not only one great diversion, as regards the debate itself on the substance of democracy. He serves extreme right-wing policies in the exercise of political, hard-right policies that have changed the profile, so that even very right-wing, years, in our societies he wonders about the confrontation and evolution of the New Democracy. Unlike all European regularity. Europe has never discussed all of this. All the things that New Democracy is looking forward to today is outside - if you like - from the principles of European enlightenment, from the principles of the urban democratic revolution. And to make this clear: While in Europe it is common to have partnerships for governments, the New Democracy does not want European regularity. Let us play it 'we are waiting - the euros'. They have nothing to do with European liberalism. However, the argument of non-governmentality also shows something deeper and more dangerous. The New Democracy considers that the Greek people are unable to protect and safeguard our democracy and says that if we follow its will, we will lead to non-governance. And you, as good fathers, come to ensure rulership. So, indirectly, they condemn - because they do not want - the Greek people not to be self-powered, not to be self-powered, to be weak, both as a will and as choices. The simple analogue - let us make it clear - gives credibility to the political system and gives the people the power to safeguard their well-being. The New Democracy does not want the people to have power. But we want active citizens to enter politics, no closed lists of factors, to involve the citizen, especially our young people. We want active citizens in politics, something New Democracy does not want. And that is why it is enough to play up to games with the institutions and the electoral system, putting from the back door and the debate on the double elections. What serious, strong and effective government six months after the election raises an issue for elections? Minister, only the one that cannot implement its industrial production programme is increasing the unemployment rate, is being exposed to internationally, is being exposed to refugee and, by the end of the day, creates a Ministry. And I would like you to tell us: Is it finally true that in the FEK "Recommendation of the Ministry of Migration Policy", you do not have a Directorate-General, DG V, and you will re-enter new FEK? Because we're very pleased about the incredibly incompetent state of affairs. We are not happy at all, Minister. We're sorry for our country, where you got it and where you drive it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u584	Shut up, Mr. Felmele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u585	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u586	Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u587	I'm closing, Mr. President. On the issue of composition and understanding, we have proved it in the vote of the relatives, in the President of the Republic, while the New Democracy is now trying to break the debate back into the political system, introducing the political law to disagree, to separate ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u588	All right, you're closed. Mr Famelle, we have said from the outset that we should respect our colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u589	You are right and I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u590	That's what I want to keep. I promised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u591	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u592	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u593	That is why we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, in particular with the right-wing governments, there needs to be democratic control and just proportionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u594	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u595	...for this would provide us with many cases of political deception, served by Mr. Lebanon and the other ministers of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u596	Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes. It's a hard part to play. But we must try. It can't be done differently. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2001 Constitutional Review we adopted the rule that, if Parliament decides to amend the electoral system, it may do so, but the new system will not apply to the next parliamentary elections, but will be for the following elections. This regulation is due to a rare crisis of self-awareness of our political system. At some point the political parties realised that everything had been the victims of extreme electoral opportunism, which violated a fundamental principle of fair play: that which stipulates that the rules of the game should not be changed in the light of the interests of the strong, but rather that they should remain stable and be predictable. It seems, however, that the electoral inventivity of the Greeks does not know any limits. That is why we are from the past - according to the experts - a fertilizer producing electoral systems. We had reached the 1956 elections to have the triophatic: in other electoral districts, a majority, in other enhanced analogues, in other analogue regions. The latest creation of this workshop is calling on us today to approve the government-majority majority. It shows us an election bonus scheme of 50 seats for the first party, a dowry with which it will be able to win parliamentary self-reliance, even if it has only been voted on since 36.5% of the voters. In short, a minority that just exceeds 1/3 of the electorate can become a parliamentary majority. And because this drafting bill fails to bring together the required 2/3 majority in order to come into force from the next elections, the New Democracy declares on every occasion - the Prime Minister himself repeatedly and in advance - that it will strengthen the formation of a multi-party government from the next House. For this reason, the Constitution does not hesitate to "root" the Constitution, which, in Article 37, by means of a detailed regulation of the mechanism of exploratory mandates, exhausts all possibilities, in order to form a multi-party parliamentary majority and to avoid the dissolution of Parliament. We have not realised that in Article 37 the editorial legislator has accepted the formation of multi-party governments within a three-day period - so long every exploratory mandate - is to come at the moment and we are saying that by regulating, which is at the expense of the combinations of parties, we are going to fight the opportunistic combinations? Time combinations were the multi-party government between New Democracy, DMAR and PASOK, which ruled the country? In fact, almost within three days it was formed. So we already have a double violation of the Constitution. The first is straight and clear, because the New Democracy calls for us to adopt a electoral system that turns a minority, even if it just exceeds 1/3 of the votes, into a one-party parliamentary majority. On the other hand, our government majority clearly prejudges that it is preparing and circumventing the Constitution. The circumvention lies in the fact that it refuses to comply in advance with the implied, but with a clear mandate under Article 37 of the Constitution, which, as I said, the parties, almost the dying, are pushing away from the possibility of forming a co-operation government. This possibility of a government is undermining it from now on, denies New Democracy, and that is an insult to the popular verdict. So both the direct violation of the Constitution and the circumvention violate the fundamental principle of popular sovereignty. The first is because it turns the popular minority to a parliamentary majority, and the second is for the reason I mentioned beforehand that it refuses any attempt to respect the popular verdict. In both cases the government claims to be seeking governmental stability. Government stability is not dependent on the existence of a one-party government anywhere in the Constitution. The majority of the Parliamentary majority provided for in the Constitution are exclusively numerical. This is the case for the proposal of confidence and for the proposal of distrust, that is, for the two constitutional procedures, where the question of government stability is primarily to be judged. Constitutional theory unanimously - which is rare - characterises the provision of the bill which presupposes autonomous parties to the detriment of the combinations. We've been through it in the morning. They have condemned this arrangement in the past and Aristobulus Menesis and Dimitris Chatsos have condemned it. Today, newer constitutionalists, Babis Anthopoulos, George Sotrelis, all agree precisely because one way or another they point out both the direct violation and circumvention of the Constitution. The government is not, therefore, entitled to raise the scarecrow of intergovernmentalism, which is threatened with the simple analogue of SYRIZA, which, incidentally, if ever applied, would cause the same diluent effects that local government is experiencing today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of choosing between the government of SYRIZA and a legislatively damaged majority in the New Democracy. We have put forward a proposal, we have developed it in detail, a proposal which the New Democracy falsely claims to be adopting. Our proposal brings together in the best possible way the proportional representation of political parties with government stability. I fear that the system that New Democracy brings us is a fear. He's afraid of the New Democracy. And for all these assurances that the elections will be held at the end of the parliamentary term, I, with this bill, am not convinced at all. I see them close and very close. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u598	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I invite Mr. Konstantinos Hetas from the Greek Solution for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u599	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we really appreciate the 'pay' or 'pay' effort, as you wish, today to lure us on these paths of policy of irrationality, which you have been following over the years. But believe us, we will remain faithful to our principles, our positions, which are clear and remain on the streets of reason. Whatever you are trying to do here, in Parliament, to lure us, no, we are not going to follow. That is what we promised, after all, by the voters who trusted us and on the basis of logic we asked to vote on us. And that very logic is the guiding principle for every vote we have taken up to today. The logic and interest of the country, nothing less, nothing more. Now I'm going to some very interesting issues. I shall refer to my dear colleagues in Mera25 or, if you like, to the Mera25 party. They said the logic of the Greek Solution is the logic of irrationality. We heard that, too, that makes sense. And I find it natural, ladies and gentlemen, that our logic should be unreasonable to you, because for us, you know, above the national interest is nothing else. I know that you have a difficulty in understanding what we are saying, namely that the interests of our country, the national interest is above party interests. It's hard to understand. I speak with facts. How can you understand our own logic of proposing the national interest above the party interest? And if you want, we may also make a small political scar of injury today with it, but we propose the national interest. How can you now understand that when you think we are all Africans and bastards? They're words of your President, they're not mine. So you will allow us to propose our national interest. I would also like to refer to the Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, whom I regret. Because man stays awake at night, he can't sleep, he says: "How do you go to sleep at night when you think that Mrs. Konstantopoulou's Freedom Launched did not enter Parliament when Andarsya did not enter Parliament, because the system is unfair and does not give them 1%". We, Mr. Spokesman of Mera25, do you know why we're not sleeping? Not because Zoe didn't enter the House. Zoe came in and came out, 'cause I guess it wasn't worth it. Sooner or later in this life, everyone gets what they deserve. I will neither cry nor stay awake because the Mera25 came in or the Golden Dawn did not come in, as you claimed it was unfair what happened to the Golden Dawn. Listen to something, 'cause we're going to go crazy in here. Don't raise hands because I didn't personally refer to anyone. I don't sleep, and we don't sleep, because it's six hundred thousand Greeks abroad, because we've had a lot of hundreds of suicides in the last ten years. That's why we don't sleep. Because they throw away Turkish aircraft every day and claim Greek islands, because we have lost four Greek islands, which have now been Islamized. That's why we don't sleep and not why Zoe didn't enter the Greek Parliament with 1%. I'm not gonna have my cat cry, for God's sake, to get a little serious. Minister, Mr. Levanie, Mr. Kamines took my line, but I had noted it before. We have said so with great conviction that the elections will take place at the end of the four-year period. Are you sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u601	I'm not convinced, but, since you're sure, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u602	Mr. Theodorikos said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u603	No, Mr Lebanese said so now. Mr. Spirtzi, you're experienced. You should have listened to him a while ago. I'm here, and I'm taking note of everything. I'm a good student, Mr. Spirtzi. A young man, but a good student. You should know that. Ladies and gentlemen, little - very much, that is what I wanted to say about what has been said. From there on, I would like to say that we are neither left-wing nor left-wing, as New Democracy is and proves it with all its actions, nor play electoral games, in order to trap, if you like, our party opponents, as SYRIZA did, because, Mr Spirtzi, that is what you have done and you know it very well. That's what you did, that's what you ruled with bonuses and then you immediately asked for the simple analogue to trap the next ones. It's our reasoning's wrong. I said something earlier when I was invited to vote as a parliamentary representative, and I said this. Listen to it from a man who has no meaning in the Greek Parliament. Twenty-six years of badges I have as a journalist in the private sector. I'm fresh here, I glorify God for living this daily life here, it's sacred moments I live in here really and I live them very intensely. Listen to something I'm going to bring you out, because sometimes you might be lost in here in the long and long term, if you want, in your presence here. Our purpose and purpose should be, as I have said before, to bring the world back to us, to give them to understand that it is worthy of our country's political system, to vote for us. That it's worth trusting people for their representatives in the House, that we're not folklore, cosy, and what everyone says. No, I throw it off me and they don't touch me, I don't want that, they don't touch me. This must be our stress, our concern, to get this world back to us and not just three, three, and a half Greek vote and it took 40% of New Democracy and it is proud, while it has been voted for a million citizens, a million two hundred or a million three hundred. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] That's what we have to see and that's where our minds must be. We put a limit on a condition. Once it's paid, it's over. 3%, ladies and gentlemen, is important. And again, it's not about 3%. It's not about getting into the House. In any case, the polls - which we do not believe - gave us 1.8% election, and we went 4.2% to the European Parliament and 3.7% after the incredible attack by the New Democracy. We still retained our powers. That's not the point. The purpose of the Greek Solution, anyway, is neither to coexist nor to play political games. It is to open the eyes of the Greek people, if we can save this desert of our country and Greece, and to be in the next elections the third party and then walk with the world on our side, so that some time we can govern this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u604	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u605	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u606	Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis. It'll be the sleeping conversation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u607	Because there are minutes in the House, I would ask my dear and dear Mr Heta to withdraw what he said, that I immediately before him said that I regret that the Golden Dawn is outside the Greek Parliament, because, as you will see, if you look at the Minutes five to ten minutes ago, I said that I am not at all sorry that the criminal organization is outside the Greek Parliament. But I said that, in our opinion, we on the left are the way to fight a fascist criminal organization is not to steal it electorally and steal it from parliament, because then you become like a face to face. The way is not to adopt her agenda, which is her agenda, dear Mr Heta, if I remember correctly, was the first I taught us about illegal immigrants, poachers, babies who came to feed us blood. You adopt them and not us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u608	Well, that's cleared up. Mr Bukokouros has the floor for seven minutes, according to the example of Mr Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u609	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the electoral law started with the request for unconstitutionality of the Change Movement and SYRIZA this morning and beyond the legal arguments, political arguments, constitutional arguments, which may be a matter of perspective, an issue of approach, and which is indeed respectable to all views, I personally experienced a political paradox in its greatness by the parties that are bailing against the law and against the bonuses. In fact, the debate was about parties coalitions. But in the background the debate was about the bonus of the seats in this regard. In other words, the parties' coalitions also claimed them. The parties that reacted to this said that "we who in theory do not want the bonus and seek to abolish it, call for it to be a party coalition", that is, "remaining political organisations geared to simple proportionally, the abolition of the bonus, without changing the position and view, we ask that the bonus be granted as a party coalition". Isn't that paradoxical? Either you want it or you don't. However, this also explains the slightness of the arguments. We heard this morning that by the law proposed by the New Democracy Government, if a party coalition receives 61% of the votes, it will take fewer seats than the first party to have received 31% of the electorate. 61%, as a hypothetical party alliance, he received in the last elections, do you know what part of the political spectrum? From KKE to Greek Solution. So this hypothetical coalition would ask the Greek people, with serious arguments, to get the bonus of the running power of the fifty seats? With what homogeneity, with what political agenda? And that's not political opportunism? I would like to table in the Minutes when the electoral laws in our country were passed during the post-population and when the national elections took place. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If we look at the sequence of elections and the vote on electoral laws, we will see very well what each party stands for in this Chamber. We will understand that our party has always proposed electoral laws, to the vast majority of cases, at the beginning of the four-year period. Our opponents, whatever colour, when they had the opportunity and strength, proposed electoral laws usually just before the elections and when the electoral division had been formed. I am not saying that this has happened in all cases. It happened in the vast majority of cases. Is that an accident? Does this not indicate a manifestation of the election body's moods by voting a similar electoral law at a time? Does it contribute to political stability? Are these solid and clear positions of political parties? However, if you wish, for me, ladies and gentlemen, that attitude of our party, to propose and vote on electoral laws in good time, is the answer to the question of the long-termity of this party. Because it is, it remains and it will, in my view, be the greatest historical part of our political system, precisely for that reason. Because he has made it clear to the Greek people what electoral system he believes and proposes it in time. It does not expect the political climate to be shaped and then propose electoral law. On the contrary, what do today's rivals do? In 2012, SYRIZA was an upcoming political force. By 2011, Mr Kuveli's party, Mr Kuveli, followed by the polls, DIMAR - I remind the oldest - was in fact a big difference. Suddenly, there was a political overthrow. Until then SYRIZA said it was a party coalition, fifteen components, many of which had an autonomous political organization and presence. Suddenly, when polls brought him before Mr. Kouvelis, a second party, he said that he is a single party and he was fine to claim the bonus of seats. Then, of course, he didn't get the bonus and ended up with a second party. The New Democracy did take it at 18.6%. This is a point where today's electoral law comes to correct. In 2015, however, SYRIZA received the election bonus well. Of course, the first eight months of major overturns did not think of proposing another electoral system. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today's law comes to heal the very small percentages of the first party, which at the time the bonus is disproportionate, and is gradually coming to reward and strengthen, beyond representativeness, the governance of the political system and the electoral law. I hear here for 50 chair bonuses. New Democracy with a percentage close to 40 percent got a 50-seat bonus? The simple analogue would take most of these seats. It was about twenty-eight seats the bonus. With the law we propose, the bonus will be twenty-five to thirty seats. And after all, ladies and gentlemen, if the Greek people wished for the simple analogue and were oriented into this electoral system, at some point, so many turmoils went through our political system, they would also give an absolute majority to a party that strongly supports this electoral system. But he never did. Do not appear as genuine expressions of the Greek people, for you are not. I said this before, the long-term history of the New Democracy shows that our party expresses more faithfully and to a greater extent and, of course, not entirely the will of the Greek people. Who are today baboons talking about petty systems? The ones who at the trade unions close workplaces with 5%? Those who close the universities by putting in front of the bands or the people who gather 50 - 100 people and shut down the main streets of Athens, afflicting millions of citizens? Are these political forces talking about ventilating systems? It is good to do our self-criticism before we make our criticisms to the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u610	Thank you, too. Mr Zachariadis from SYRIZA has the floor and Mr Charakopoulos follows from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u611	Mr Bukkoro, it is too dangerous to make future screenings with election results in the past. It's pro rata as if you're trying to play football on a tennis court or go play volleyball on a football field. If you do not make any necessary adjustments, you cannot play. This is the most comprehensive reform, in my opinion, which the New Democracy Government is doing, because it is the confirmation that the New Democracy cannot and does not want the political system to grow, the mobilisation of a framework which will lead to the emancipation of the electorate, the liberation and emancipation of the political flows and dynamics that are the packages of a drowning framework that just went bankrupt a few years ago. Yeah, the economy went bankrupt. Yeah, the old political system went bankrupt. Yes, our electoral system went bankrupt too. And now that we're out of this tour, instead of going forward, we're going backwards fast. Can you tell me, you who play very Europeans, what electoral system in Europe, with 40%, gives a 16% premium, that is, fifty seats? Is there even a political system in Europe? As far as I know there's no one. Throughout Europe we have partnerships, we have proportional electoral systems, we have a simple analogue. SYRIZA's position is a position of principle, is not a party's interest and is not a electoral planning position. Micro-groups and micro-politically what you bring might be of benefit to us, but we do not work that way. We trust the people and their verdict. You don't trust the verdict of the people, so you want to change it, you want to correct his will. We consider the people to be mature to point out solutions, outlets and cooperation so that the country can be governed. You do not consider the people to be mature, so you change the vote in this way. But it's not just that you don't trust the people, you don't trust your political staff. You do not trust your program that it can create alliances and shocks and win a real majority. You want the state to be the spoil of the first. You want the state as a feud of the parties. You want administration and power as a trophy of the party. So we are in Greece and you come and say that the simple analogue - has been quoted - creates a transaction. Really? Wasn't the bonus what was the epitome of creating a client mechanism that eroded everything? Did the country go bankrupt or with a bonus? I'm asking you. Let me tell you why you want the bonus? You're not burned by lawlessness, but you're burned. You want to appoint the Commander of NSA without a degree and then change the law, which is why bonus is the bonus. You want to raise the payroll to the poster and reduce the index without giving anyone an account, that's why the bonus is. You want to make unsuccessful management members at positions that the government defines, that's why you want the bonus. You want to do the bad methods in the health field, with the hospital administrations. You want to become governor at the Arta Hospital the ONNEDELite of Preveza and commander at the Preveza Hospital the ONNEDITite of Arta. That's the bonus. You do not want the institutional and political maturity of the country. SYRIZA is mature and is ready and showed it with both the President of the Parliament and with the vote of the expatriates and with the President of the Republic. I hear the argument "because we accepted the bonus when we won". Because this law was true and within this framework we won. How else could it work? And the question was left, why did we not abolish the provision for parties' coalitions in the first semester? I'll answer that. For we in the first half of the year, Mr Lebanese, have been trying to balance the country. Because we in the first semester were fighting the humanitarian crisis. Because you didn't leave a single cent in the funds and we tried to pay wages and pensions. Because we were fighting unemployment that was 27%. Because in the first half of the year, we did not cut the pies of 12 000 euros, we did not get the chairs of 20,000 euros. Because we in the first half of the year have not found stockpile of 37 billion to play kibabarians with the rest of the previous governments. That's why we didn't change it in the first semester. Everything you've done these four and a half years, you'll have it in the super-max, you know it. Be more measurable. I see the position of the Movement of Change, and I really am impressed by his flatulence, but today the representative says, but Mrs. Gennimata told us in 2016. What was Mrs. Gennimata telling us in 2016? He said then that it was a permanent position of the Democratic Integration, the simple analogue, but did not vote for it, because it was a electoral planning of Tsipras that organized elections in the autumn of 2016, because he wanted to escape. And in any case, the elections took place in the summer of 2019. Also, Mr. Venizelos said 2014. You also have to decide in the Change Movement - if you want it to be your right to change your position - how do you see the issue of majorities and alliances. I hear about the double-election scenarios. If you want, confess your failure and go ahead. But you should be aware that when the next elections take place: firstly, they will be carried out on a mere analogous basis. Second, SYRIZA will be number one. Thirdly, everyone will be called upon to take their responsibility. And fourthly, a progressive government of the majority of the Greek people will be formed. These are, then, the big questions. These are the great dilemmas. These are the political systems that operate in Europe and these are your political fears. You cannot defend your policy in society because it does not represent majority social interests. You know that Right in Greece in Transmolitan Greece has always been a minority political current and you know very well that the way to win a majority is with electoral systems that corrupt the will of the Greek people. We are here, we will show the way of proportionality, we will show Europe's path, we will remind the citizens of the bankruptcy of the old political system and we will win the next elections and we will apply the simple analogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u612	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. Mr Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Dermenzopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u613	Mr. Zachariadis, I do not know if 54% of Constantine Karamanlis were minority in '74, 47% of Constantine Mitsotakis in 1990, 45% of Kostas Karamanlis in 2004 or 40% of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I begin my speech, to express my congratulations and congratulations from the Step of the House to the new President of the Hellenic Republic. The broad consensus on her face is undoubtedly a measure of maturity for our political system, which has, moreover, proved to be the almost universal majority adopted by the vote on fraud. With these movements that have a symbolic character, the message is that Greek society can leave behind the bisecting logic and the barren segregation. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has continued to implement its electoral commitments in a firm manner without surpriseing, with the sole aim of modernising the country, developing the economy and political stability in the security and confidence climate. It has been demonstrated by the dense legislative work in the previous period, with measures which, as all the public opinion surveys show, enjoy acceptance of the large majority of Greek society. In this context is the current draft law on the new electoral law and comes deliberately in the first half of government with the obvious aim of having on the horizon a purely political landscape, leaving the usual terminology with the sudden changes of electoral laws shortly before the elections and always according to the post-consumer pursuits of the ruling party in question. A characteristic example of the logic that wanted the electoral law to be used as an ace in the government's sleeve was the well-known Koutsogiorgas law, which in 1989 sought to prevent the formation of self-powered government by Constantine Mitsotakis. The country was forced to move for months into repeated elections, and New Democracy as a first party had to reach 47% to form a marginal government majority. Who has benefited from this situation, which has derailed the country for a critical period, and has made a government that the almost half of the Greek people have voted to walk with a slight majority of just one Member of Parliament, except perhaps those who continue to see reality with their micro-partners? The same we lived with the previous government of SYRIZA, seeing the certain defeat coming, but also the weakness of a government retardation, voted for the electoral system of simple proportions to the logic of "land fire to be reduced", because, despite the featuring of the Left over time of the mere analogy presented almost as a drug for all diseases, the act has shown that this is where the recipe of certain failure lies. Despite all the good intentions, it is most likely to lead to endless transactions between party formations, to continuously donate and receive in particular when government formations are not based on programmatic agreements, but on opportunism between parties with huge ideological and political differences. The result of this situation that we have recently experienced and with the heirly SYRIZA - ANEL is fatal at the expense of the political system and ultimately of the country itself. So let us all ask ourselves, apart from any legitimate party pursuits, whether Greece after a decade of deep structural economic crisis in which the political system has fainted, has the luxury of re-entering into new adventures with a clear future. Moreover, a strong government is proven to be beneficial and necessary for the economy, as direct decisions and rapid reflections are required in a complex external environment and a difficult internal situation. We also see this need for the positive consequences recorded in the first six months of the new country's governance by a strong government with clear objectives. The Mitsotakis Government is therefore legislating on the basis of the security and tomorrow's citizens, and seeks to reduce the chances of instability, but does not mean that it reduces or alters the democratic legitimacy of electoral representation. For this reason, a party to get a MP bonus must exceed 25%, while the bonus will increase depending on the percentage the first party will receive. Basically, to form a self-powered government from the first party, taking the 50 Members' bonus, it must touch 40%. At the same time, the motto remains for a party to enter the House. It is a measure which is found in most of the electoral systems of countries and even with a much higher bar. This law seeks to successfully reconcile the two crucial issues that the country's political life needs. And this is the greatest possible proportionality and cyberdynamicity that prevents the spread in situations of political instability or chaos. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are going through a critical period for our country, as, in addition to economic problems, we dominate an unprecedented liquidity in the international environment, while the challenges of our eastern neighbours are increasing to a worrying extent. The need for stable and robust governmentality is even greater than in the past. That is why I believe that the vote on the electoral law is also a demand of times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u614	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. Mr. Dermenzopoulou has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Ploris from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u615	Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral law is an essential component of the orderly functioning of the parliamentary culture, as it sets out the rules governing the exact distribution of parliamentary seats. As you can see, the choice of a electoral system is a particularly demanding and difficult process. It should combine two seemingly contradictory objectives, ensuring representativeness of voting and the need for stable governments. At the same time, basic conditions for the long-term and broad acceptance of an electoral system are the need to ensure its compatibility, both with the historical political context and with the prevailing social perceptions of how power is shared within the political and party system. In this light, the electoral law proposed by our Government adequately covers all of the above parameters. More specifically, the conditional staggering premium with the first party's parliamentary seats guarantees the representative and fair expression of the electorate, while the failure to abolish the bonus for the first parliamentary party ensures the rule of law and political stability in the country. At the same time, the government is in line with the wishes of the majority of Greek society, as the abolition of the mere analogy that SYRIZA had voted for in 2016 was one of the main election promises of our pro-election. Ladies and gentlemen, the rejection of the government's election law by the Officer is mainly due to the strong opportunism and idealism that characterises its policy. Political opportunism is easily perceived by the fact that although the electoral law to be voted on is more proportional to what applied in the double elections of 2015, SYRIZA rejects it as extreme majority. We all know that today's Civic Opposition has been for four and a half years government thanks to the existence of the 50 seats bonus, which has not been abolished during the first seven months of its governance. On the contrary, it passed a new electoral law, when it had lost political sovereignty, desiring through the mere analogy to ensure that the New Democracy as a first party could not form a self-powered government. At the same time, on the same issue, the Civic Anti-Civilization displays extreme idealism, as it does not care about a number of powerful anti-professions, which demonstrate the weaknesses of mere analogy, as well as its incompatibility with the Greek political reality. More specifically, one of the main weaknesses of mere analogy is the fact that it does not directly offer a government majority in any political formation. In this way it deprives the election process of being able to act as a means of disapproval and removal from the government of a political party that failed to offer solutions to the problems of society. The political will of the people is eroded, while at the same time at the same time weakening the control of the executive. In the case of Greece, the introduction of an electoral system based on simple analogues, coupled with the existence of a strong conflicting political culture, would lead to long-term insolence and gradual paralysis of economic and social life, as the state mechanism cannot function effectively for a long time without political guidance and coordination. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government, as in all the institutional issues it has been called upon to deal with so far, is showing a remarkable seriousness and responsibility. Without any suspicion of electoral feasibility and politically neutrality, it brings to the vote an electoral law that incorporates important elements from proposals from other parties, such as the escalating bonus, while at the same time better reflecting the correlation of powers between the political parties. In this way, the Prime Minister and the Government show their desire to immediately complete all institutional interventions that will ensure political stability in the country, so that they move forward in an effort to further repair the economy, and to address the major challenges facing our country in its foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral law put forward by the government not only shields the country from future outbreaks of instability, but at the same time can be a trigger for the overall upgrading of our political system. It is for this reason that the majority of the House have to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u616	Thank you very much. Mr Ploris has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Lazarides from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u617	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is of interest to see what political forces are consistent with what they say and what political forces are actually political opportunities to implement as a electoral system what suits them every time. And that concerns SYRIZA most of all. Because I'm going to tell you a story you might not know. There was a party on the left that was close to about 3% -5% and suddenly came to have a power to become government. He always evangelized the simple analogue. He won elections with the majority system that the New Democracy had voted for. It had eight months until he took the country to the elections and there were voices inside about the simple analogue. And I understand that in the eight months you had a great deal of trouble at that time, with Mr Varoufakis going to make the famous negotiations. But you've been through a lot of bills, Mr. Zachariadis. You could bring the simple analogue. Why are you opportune politicians? Because you wanted to go with the majority law to make a government and then change the law, because you knew that once the Greek people experience the "first time left", you would not be a first party. If you were fans of mere analogy, at any cost in January, February, 2015, you would say "we go with the simple analogy and then do our alliances". The simple analogue you've been interested in since you know you'll always be opposition. For what is the characteristic of mere analogy? That it creates a lot of opposition and no government. Mr. Tzanakopoulos has started telling us something mathematically here and whether it is distorted or unfavourable the vote of the Greek people. Let me get this straight. If, according to the calculations made by Mr Janakopoulos, sixty and forty - there are seventeen parties with 3%, namely, these seventeen parties total 51% and the first party has 49%, do you think that the will is expressed if these seventeen parties are deliberately gathered and government over the one party that has 49%? You are opportune, because you did not hesitate to be four and a half years with Mr Kammenos, who had absolutely no ideological relationship. The only thing that hugged you was the chair. And here many times we are talking about majorities and minorities, and I have never understood that. Do we have a measure that Greek society was a left-hand majority? And say that, who? Is SYRIZA, whose best percentage ever taken was basically the percentage that New Democracy was receiving in defeat? Your rate was 35-46%. This is the famous majority current! And the New Democracy that broke down the land - as you say - came back with 40%. I'm telling you, let's see where the major powers are. Because this is the case here in Parliament. The less one has, the more one treats this Step as expressing greater social masses. I hear Mer25 and the Greek Solution many times and feel that 3%, 4% and 5% represent 90%. That's how the Left likes to behave many times. Because these are your percentages. Do you know what our main difference is? That's why we talked about the course and how we were over time. In principle, PASOK has ruled the place with laws passed by the New Democracy. Because the New Democracy at the beginning had the preference of the opponent to govern and implement a policy rather than to have the country, as we lived in 1989, with three elections. For the Simitis government spent so many years with the Kouvella law, while before, with the Koutsogiorgas law, Constantine Mitsotakis had to get almost 50% again not to have self-reliance and in 2004 that New Democracy won the elections, he did not change the electoral law to go in 2007 and he had a certain majority of Constantine Karamanlis. He changed it in 2008, when the polls that gave him bonuses with Paulopoulos had turned the fifty seats. Yes, we preferred that there should also be a PASOK government, but that the place should be governed, that there should be no power. Now comes Kyriakos Mitsotakis - who could say "we have won the elections, we have self-responsibility, let's see, let's go to three and a half years to see what we want to do and what suits us" - since the first semester and changes the law. If, Mr. Zachariadis, you thought you were a first party, here is your advantage. Vote to be over two hundred and if you're the first party, you'll have a government. In this, however, you are consistent. You know that, because you will be opposition, all you want to do is make it hard for the country to be governed. This is what you did to local government, which you knew you lost all the regions and all the municipalities. All you care about was what it was? It must not be possible for local government to be governed. Same thing you want to do in the country. We are consistent with what we have done and always these electoral systems have brought us, when we were in power, and we have said so in the run-up to elections. You are not consistent, because this will always accompany you, that, when you were the first party, with percentages that for the New Democracy on the way and its course were basically defeat rates - with these percentages you were the first party - you did not dare to bring just proportionals. Eight months you had the time, and you didn't dare bring in a simple analogue. Why? Because you are politically opportune, because you knew that "first time left" will be the message to keep bringing you to the opposition and all you care about is for your party benefit not to rule the place. That's where we're different. We prefer even a bad government that could be you, but that the place can be governed and that we have no power. We've got different prototypes, we're home, you're party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u618	Thank you. Mr Lazarides has the floor and then Mr Andrianos comes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u619	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Zachariadis, I see you very confidently won the 2023 elections. The only thing for sure is that in 2023 you'll be looking for Chief. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main tasks of political science and electoral analysis dictates that the electoral law in question is the regulatory text, which should reflect as much credibility as possible the expression of each society's political intentions, as expressed at any time. What does that practically mean? It means that an electoral law must be structured in such a way that rulership is granted in full proportionality with the desire of society to rule. Above all, it means showing adaptability to the new conditions and contributing to the restoration of the credibility of policy. This is the essential political check, that is what the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is asking for. As the explanatory statement states, the main aim of the report is to establish a reliable, transparent, simple and functional framework, which will introduce a new political system to post-crisis Greece, which will be called upon to establish a new relationship of confidence between the citizen and politics, a relationship that has started to be built on solid bases with the political change of 7 July 2019. Even the fact that we are called upon to vote on electoral law, without any prospect of elections, contributes precisely to it. “Why now?” is the opposition asking stubbornly. Because we want to put the rules on the game right now. We do not manipulate a system according to the projection of the next election result, as you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, imitating PASOK and Mino Koutsogiorgas, and this separates our intention from that of SYRIZA. Of course I mean a mere analogue, which is a product of fraudulent feasibility. Simple analogue was established in order with mathematical accuracy to lead things to chaotic situations. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that you are familiar with Mao's term 'big turbulence, wonderful situation'. And you did it! The proof is no other than what we now live in the municipalities and regions. The simple analogue was therefore tested, weighed, and found clearly incomplete. It is therefore not an ideological consequence. This is a political opportunism. I recall and reveal at the same time the hypocrisy and steps of SYRIZA for the bonus of the fifty seats it used to rule. From a coalition of parties and components you became a single party, then you colluded with the far-rights of Panos Kammenos, then you maintained the electoral law and won with him and the September elections and in 2016 the sensitivities caught you. Seeing that defeat comes you searched for partnerships - take note - even with the fascist Golden Dawn organization, to deprive you of self-reliance from Kyriakos Mitsotakis, something you naturally failed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u620	It's a disgrace to what you're saying. Rescind it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u621	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide. You'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u622	Rescind it and apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u623	Shame on you! Are you talking about sending the Prime Minister's advisor to speak to the Casidiar? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u624	Don't hide behind our finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u625	Ladies and gentlemen, please! You should ask for the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u626	The quality of our democracy is certainly not dependent on electoral law. Without surely underestimating his usefulness, the electoral law...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u627	Are you talking? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u628	Calm down, Mr. Skourlet! Calm down! You'll hear it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u629	Don't play my part, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u630	Mercy! What do you want now? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u631	Well, let's keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u632	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u633	But you caused it, Mr Lazarides! What can we do? You caused it. Is there a reason to get into these issues?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u634	I could say other things. But I'm not saying it. I don't keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u635	Apologise!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u636	Mr. Zachariadis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u637	The former President of Parliament didn't say that the Golden Dawn votes were counting, yes or no? Yes or no? Yes or no? Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u638	What do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u639	Yes or no, answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u640	Time will remain the same, know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u641	It's embarrassing what you're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u642	You must be ashamed, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u643	We didn't forget Baltaco you were sending him with the Cassiope...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u644	Mr. Lazarides, continue. I'll give you one more minute. Continue defending the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u645	So without underestimating its usefulness, the electoral law is a technical distribution of the parliamentary seats. It cannot in itself give those solutions to major issues for which societies are struggling, nor can solutions to the strengthening of the criteria of democracy, nor to the avoidance of populism, nor to the correction of the relationship of trust between citizens and policies. Beyond the criterion of prudence, the latter is the criterion for the new era. It is what will prevent any populist sirens from acting as a lure for cheap electoral exploitation and the key to restoring citizens' trust with politicians is the credibility and effectiveness of our political choices. By voting on this draft law, we are taking a huge step towards restoring this confidence, and I say a step, because this alone is not enough. There is more to be done to get where we want to go. Along with this we are given the opportunity to put back into the public debate top issues of democracy's operation. There can be many suggestions in this direction. I will testify to two that I consider most important. Proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed That way we could hit the clientele system. Proposal for a second, stable term of office of government. It was a success that we finally unleashed the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of the House. Would it not, then, further help to ensure governmental stability without 'but' and 'if' to anyone exercising power? The national elections should, in my view, take place every four or even five years on a stable and predefined date. And even if the country is being led to an early elections, for some exceptional reason, the next government's term of office should end the predetermined date according to the previous elections. It would be a good idea, Minister, for such proposals to give food for thought to the public debate from now on. This will strengthen our democracy and restore our interest in the political substance. And that's obviously something New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis know and can do better. Because in our overall view of politics, what we are proposing is what is of interest to the country and not what is the party's interest. This draft law also directly answers this question and I therefore call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u646	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Andrianos has the floor, and then Mrs. Head.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u647	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral law, in particular the system of rules or, in other words, the rules governing the allocation of parliamentary seats on the basis of the election result, is always a delicate exercise of balance. It is an exercise of balance which must take into account and weigh the special political history of each political society, as well as the needs of the fair representation of the electors and the safeguarding of the country's rule of law. It is at the same time a exercise of democracy and trust in the institutions. It is of course assumed that since the different possible weightings are many, the individual choices of the legislator in question are impossible to obtain the absolute unanimity of all sides. But beyond the subjective dimension there are also very important objective parameters. Firstly, the change in the electoral law should take place in unelected working time and the citizens should have already been informed on the main lines in time and approved by their vote in national elections. Secondly, not to sacrifice the country's interests on the altar of party interest, as an electoral law designed to serve party purposes is extremely likely to put the country and society on very dangerous adventures. It is therefore particularly important that the electoral law we are debating today meets these two objective conditions. It does not surprise citizens and political forces, it does not change the rules of the game at the last minute, it does not put anything above the national interest, as at least we understand it in the New Democracy. It seeks, in other words, a composition which ensures that popular vote corresponds to parliamentary representation and, at the same time, does not undermine the possibility of forming strong governments, when it is precisely the citizens who do so. We believe that the system of mere analogous that the previous government has voted on is ineffective in the case of our country, but I can also say unfair. This is because it even makes strong electoral majorities hostages of small and often extreme and oligomatic minorities, but it also creates incentives for unfair negotiations and transactions that the citizens did not approve with their vote. We do not believe that heterogeneous and opportunistic alliances express the will of citizens or effectively serve the interests of our country and society. We do not believe that cycles of constant refuge in elections, as we lived in the early 1990s, with New Democracy exceeding 46% and cannot form a powered government, express the will of the majority or serve the country. We do not believe that especially in critical times about our country's progress and future, in times of major challenges at the level of the economy and foreign policy, non-government and political instability serve the interests of Greece and the Greeks. We therefore do not believe that the permanent objective of the lasting strengthening of our democracy, the immunisation of institutions, the treatment of demagogy and populism, unfair backwardness and opacity is served by a treaty of artificial instability. One more thing, to those who still believe that the system of mere analogy would encourage the understanding of political forces and the coexistence of national unity. Concern, therefore, in the face of the great and important prerequisites, presupposes that democratically elected governments can implement their programme, the expressed will and the mandate of the majority of the electors, without continuous underground negotiations and without always having one eye on the possibility of proclaiming early elections. Only when institutionally lacking, and the need and the incentive of these unfair transactions and of the auctioning, can it be possible to reach agreement on the large and important fuels of manoeuvre, demagogicism and populism. Besides, let us not forget this, the experiment of applying simple proportionality to local government, municipalities and regions has demonstrated its incompatibility with specific and pressing needs of the place. So with the new electoral law, with seriousness and responsibility, with commitment to the spirit and letter of the institutions, we restore a mistake and reconstruct the rules for the distribution of parliamentary seats with the expressed will of the majority of the Greeks. This is how we formulate a composition of proportionality and governance that we believe meets the needs of the country, but also the legal sense of the vast majority of citizens. Faced with the possibility that the country might enter a new cycle of political instability, regardless of the will and the vote of the large majority of Greeks and Greeks, we respond by strengthening our democracy by strengthening our institutions, institutionally strengthening the country in this critical national interest situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u648	Thank you, Mr. Adriane. Mrs Kefala's speech is followed by Mr. Hatzidistraliou from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u649	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every country is walking in respect of its history and learning from it. The culture of each nation, its traits, its experiences and influences make it unique within the global territory. There are policy issues for which practices from other countries are adopted with proven positive results, widely implemented practices. There are solutions to problems and issues that come ready from experiences from other states, without special adaptation to our own data. However, there are also issues of basic functions that require in-depth knowledge of the country's history and needs, which, regardless of participation in international organisations and associations, are structural challenges and choices of local civil servants. Such a basic function of the democratic culture is the way and procedure of electing the representatives of the nation, the MPs. It is undoubtedly a deep political process, a profound political choice. Greece's route has also shown during all the periods of the history of the modern Greek state that rulership is one of the basic conditions of its normal democratic operation. Our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with full knowledge of the Greek history and reality and, in fact, confronting with Law 4606/2016, a law on the mere analog that SYRIZA - ANEL government has voted in favour of the Greek people that, with the takeover of the country's government by New Democracy, this law will change and change in order to avoid the risk of impoverishment while respecting the will of the sovereign Greek people. This commitment today becomes a reality. And it becomes a reality in the first half of the New Democracy governance, which shows in the most emphatic way that it is the national interest rather than the micropolitical logic and the party benefit. Because it did not plan a electoral system in the New Democracy measures by strengthening the first party. On the contrary, we are bringing to Parliament today an electoral law much more representative for small parties, which, however, ensures rulership. It is a long time until the next elections so that one can accuse us of attempting to manipulate the country. This is exactly what Mr Tsipras did, not when he took over power in 2015, but when he realized that his circle was closed, when the polls preceded the New Democracy and voted for the simple analogue, pretext ideological causes. On the contrary, the move by the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Interior by depositing this bill is an act of political credibility and honesty, both to the Greek people and to the political forces of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today emits knowledge, wisdom and meets the needs of Greece today. It has two features: The first is that it is an electoral law that is more proportional to what the last elections took place. It comes in agreement with the request of the proportional representation of the political forces, as every time the Greek people choose. The latter ensures governance when it appears from the results of the elections. The popular will with the electoral power of the parties, the strengthening of governance and the necessary stimulus in the credibility of the political system is identified. In particular, in an election campaign, when there is no party able to gather more than 25% of the voters, it is clear that the electorate is a dispersed political body, to the extent that shocks and consensus are a one-way and compulsory option. However, when the first party begins to gather larger majority streams and reaches 40% of the voters, there the message of the choice of government is just as strong. So there comes the legislator and predicts, giving the staggered bonus of seats, as reflected in the bill, with a maximum of fifty seats and a minimum of twenty, which the first party enjoys, depending on its exact rate, and certainly over 25%. It is clear in the spirit and in the articles of the bill that the constitutional principles of equivalence of vote and representation are fulfilled. It is an electoral bill that I invite you to vote in favour of, so that it can also become a state law. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you are cut for the simple analogue, that Mr Tsipras has become Prime Minister using the bonus of the fifty seats. Think of what would happen in 2015 if the elections were held on a simple analogue basis, how many MPs SYRIZA would have. So I call on you, in fact, especially now that you have also been through government posts. And reality is one. We must ensure rulership for the country. It cannot be dragged into constant and repeated elections, confrontations which, particularly at this juncture, will reduce its international prestige and cause destabilisation in the national economy and its geopolitical position. The message of today's draft law is that of strengthening the rational cultivation and culture of true political shocks, with a spirit of national unity and sympathy to the serious national challenges facing the country. This legislative initiative by the Government for the election of Members is another major institutional step, another institutional step, which will ensure effective governance, stability and development in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u650	Thank you, Mrs. Head. Mr. Hadjivassiliou has the floor. Mr Villiardos has asked for the floor and then Mr Varoufakis, but Mr Varoufakis lays down - to be clear - the order. So, if he wants to, he can talk right after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u651	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country, after the adventures of recent years, needs political stability. And stability means depletion of the four years and security of governance. A major step in this direction was taken by disconnecting the President of the Republic from the national elections, and the second step is now being taken with the change of electoral law. We are therefore voting for a new electoral law, which gives governments firm and which is more proportionate, more realistic and, above all, more fair. As several colleagues in the committees have said, we must learn from the mistakes of the past and improve when the democratic mechanisms are needed. So I think that simply proportionally over time creates more problems than it is supposed to solve. It creates a fragile system, without strong majorities, a system that is prone to populism and opportunistic cooperation which, unfortunately, does not contribute to the country's political stability. Some claim to favour consensus and partnership, but wishing for partnership is not enough. Many examples of cooperation in the Greek Parliament led to early elections, the most critical moments. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs stability. We are not Belgium to have the luxury of looking for a prime minister and a government for a year. See even a little further, what happened in Italy, Spain and Germany, with the fragmentation of traditional political forces and the failure to form self-powered governments. Respectively, irrational results also emerged in local government, when SYRIZA imposed the simple analogue. These were absurdities, which have fortunately been corrected to the extent possible by the Government of New Democracy. Today, then, we from New Democracy are frankly and clearly admitting that yes, there was indeed an exaggeration in the way the additional seats were taken from the first party in the elections. With today's change of electoral law, the government, after of course, has taken into account the sensitivities of the minority, is bringing justice to the granting of the bonus. Its proportional and escalating growth for parties that received more than 25% is a significant improvement towards the fairest and most proportionate. I would like to point out this. The government could today bring about an electoral law of enhanced proportionality, like the one that is currently in force. But Kyriakos Mitsotakis, loyal to his electoral commitment, brought a more proportionate law, with fair and escalating bonuses. Also, I heard many from the Opposition talk about a need for consensus. I agree, yes, consensus is an essential element for democracy to function properly. However, I believe that consensus must result as a result of the maturity of the political system and not because it is imposed by electoral law. See what happened yesterday with the election of the new President of the Republic. The Prime Minister, wisely and responsibly, sought consent, without imposing any legislation on him and the result justifies him. A lot has also been heard by SYRIZA's colleagues about the lessons we have learned from cases of cooperation and understanding. I would therefore like us to remember two specific things. First, the incoherent cooperation of SYRIZA and ANEL in the previous period and secondly, to remember who were those who led the country to the cliff due to obsessed cooperation at the most critical moments for the country, who were those who rejected consensus in December 2014. And I'm hanging up with a question. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why did you not vote for the simple analogue, which you so much love, in the first period of your governance in 2015? Because you know, obviously, that no government would be formed. You voted much later when you saw defeat coming, leaving her a legacy to the future, to the next. So this electoral law is another opportunity to correct serious errors in previous governance. We are calling today and tomorrow for all those who are evangelizing the consensus to show it now, for the sake of the country. We therefore call on you to support this effort in order to avoid the dangers of previous political mistakes today. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u652	Mr Varoufakis, Secretary of Mera25, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u653	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, wrongly lying, it is your sincere decision to vote on this bill. Whatever we say, however strong our arguments may be, it is impossible to change the determination with which you will pass a reinforced proportional bill, unfortunately with your own political choice, a regular choice, in the presence of double elections whenever they occur. It is - I insist - a political, a choice of your own. I would like to ask you a question, too, of the New Democracy, and you of SYRIZA. Why don't you invest in the great coalition of the Memorandum Arc, which you've already built? You'd be fine. If we pay attention to your differences, it's minimal. As far as economic policy is concerned, 3.5% of the primary surplus is concerned, and so do you. Mining them, mining you too. 'EASTMED' are those, 'EASTMED' and you. Haftar, Haftar and you. You could well go along with the simple analogy, without choosing the path of the double elections. The 'cutting' that we see in the House in general from July to July is not explained or rather as strong as the substantial differences between the government's and the previous government's programmes are. These falsifications aim only to maximize the electoral clientele of the Memorandum Arc. They are like companies - I am sure you know that - such as PROCTER & GAMBLE, etc. They are detergent producing companies, they take the same detergent powder and pack it, pack it in fifty different packages, they have fifty different detergents, but the same detergent dust is in. We are seeing something similar, so you will allow us not to take this great conflict here today with regard to electoral law very seriously. Whether by this electoral law or by the previous one, you are ruling on your own, or you are ruling together, politics is essentially uniform. One remark you will allow me to compare our country with the other countries of the European Union. Greece reminds Italy of two things. We are the only countries in the European Union that are constantly changing the electoral law. Each government is changing the electoral law, looking for some electoral advantages and almost always, as in Italy - Berlusconi, Renchi - has been here since the 1980s and after I remember, every time a government changes the electoral law because it thinks it is a good thing, it gets caught like a smart bird. In other words, the treasure of changing electoral laws. Don't forget that. We are simply undermining the credibility of Parliament and our electoral system. The other thing we remind Italy - it has nothing to do with what we are talking about today, but it is worth mentioning - is that we are the two parliaments, the Italian and the Greek, who are constantly referring politicians to trials with the aim, as is the electoral law and its change, the electoral benefits that we have never been able to achieve, and all we can do is humiliate justice in a process that the last thing that does is deliver justice. I close this point and return to the case of electoral law. We at Mer25 are perpendicular to the enhanced analogy. I'll explain why. I'm going to make a little reference to this stock, the share definition of'reinforced'. Have you noticed what the use of this word signals? I suggest you expel her from your vocabulary. When the CIA wanted to delight the tortures, it called them a ‘enhanced interrogation’. When the troika decided to upload and do something different, it was renamed "reinforced surveillance", what you live, which you experience from July to today. The enhanced analogue is nothing but a distorted analogy, nothing but distortion and breach of proportionality. Let's get to the point. Why are we against the enhanced analogy - as you say - or the step-by-step bonus? Say it what you want, it's the same thing. For us a democrat can never disagree with the idea that the percentage of seats a party should have should be commensurate with the percentages of votes taken by the people. Any argument against this proportionality between a percentage of votes and a percentage of seats cannot be consistent with respect for the people's mandate. It is like saying to those who are voting for your bill or the system that was previously in existence or any enhanced analogy plan: "Greek people, you did not give us the mandate to form a government, you did not give us the self-reliance, but we made a law using the government majority that the previous law had given us, again the strengthened analogy, to protect from you the popular mandate you did not give us." This is the message you send to the Greek people. Look, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are completely disproportionate electoral systems, but they have an honesty, such as the majority system in force in Britain, the United States, the first - past - the post, the majority in this House. I'm vertically against it, we oppose it, but it has a logic. Its logic is: 'Government is appointed the party which has the largest number of votes in the largest number of single-room regions'. In this country with enhanced analogue systems we usually have multi-stage regions, inter-stage regions, three-stage regions, one-stage regions, non-equivalent regions - which in itself is a violation of basic principles of democracy - and normalisation formulas identifying politicians already elected under electoral law, whose fifth is to violate the people's mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, it is right that the companions of the SYRIZA and the KIC disagree with you on the enhanced proportion, but I must tell SYRIZA that this 3% violates the vote, so when you were right to call for the unconstitutionality of all the plans of the enhanced electoral systems, I guess you did not consider this small fact. However, 3% of what would be a mere analogous? We cannot really have an unadulterated analogue when we have one-sided regions and multi-storey regions. Let me just say this: if we take Grevena or Samos, the second, third, fourth party have no representation. We have an essentially relevant majority, a majority in our one-sided, either with your own system, what you are going to vote on today, either with SYRIZA or with the previous one. What does that mean? It means that to introduce simple analogue or some analogue system, you have a normalization formula. In other words, the parties that in Samos, Grevena, Evrytania received nothing should be overrepresented in one of the largest regions, so you also violate the popular mandate in the larger regions. What did I mean by that? This is a message to SYRIZA and KKE colleagues. Simple proportional to non-equivalent constituencies does not exist. You may have normality and proportionality on the ground through the normalization formula, but you will be violating proportionality in local regions. We as a PART25 are struggling to have proportionality in both the regions and the territory. We cannot expose the principle of proportionality to the ground and violate it in the region. We are 100% in favour of unadulterated analogy, but what does that mean in practice? The simplest way to have an unadulterated simple analogue is to have a region, as is happening in the European elections, the whole of the country, as is done - if I am not mistaken - in Slovakia. This is how they elect their Parliament in Slovakia. In these circumstances, however, there will be no proportionality of representation in local communities. It will now be broken, it will have become a complete break in the Member's relationship with the local society. One way of actually having a proportionate system is for the regions to be equivalent, for example, to have thirty regions and each to elect ten MPs or fewer, if we are to have a State vote. Two problems, however, arise from this thought. Firstly, who will demarcate these new regions? Secondly, we will have regions today, such as the Dodecanese, which are not large enough populations and will have to join another region, and the accountability relationship between the Member and the local society is again being broken down. Merra25 submitted a proposal for a law to the committee responsible. It's our contribution to public dialogue. We do not suffer from'micromagnosis'. We do not expect that this will be voted on, but it is a statement, an investment in dialogue, because the dialogue on electoral systems will continue. Yours today is passive as the previous ones were. We want to believe that there will at some point be a serious dialogue leading to the creation of a permanent electoral system, which is highly consensual and which will be stable. This is the direction in which the proposal for a law of Mera25 contributes. As far as demarcation of the regions is concerned, and it should be done in a serious electoral system, rather than in the reproduction of the systems of enhanced proportionality which we have at this time, I mentioned the issue of the definition of these regions. And the question arises. I put it before. I'm putting it again, one more time. Who's gonna make that mark? The regions cannot be carved out by the Ministry of Interior. It is not possible for politicians, the government, to decide what the limits of the electoral districts are, especially in a reform which has been rejoicing since the beginning. In all the serious countries of the world there is an independent election committee, an independent electoral committee, an independent committee. The first institutional aspect of the proposal for a law of Mera25 is our proposal to create such an independent national election committee that takes power from the ministers and even from the MPs. Our proposal is specific, how it will be made up, who will make up this national committee. We believe that a good solution would be one third of this committee to be judges, one third of which would be confiscated citizens, such as the jurors, and one third of the parties' representatives. The second problem is that in order to have a proportional system with equivalent regions it means that the regions will be large enough, because if they elect fewer than ten Members, proportionality is not enough. But if they elect 10 Members of Parliament at least to be proportionate, the result is what? The result will be a break in local society's relations with the MP. One solution is what we propose at Mera25, the marriage, if you like, of our own little - very system with the German model. We are making a concrete proposal, we have a concrete example of our proposal for a law to start this dialogue. Imagine having twenty-three major regions with ten Members each. So there are two hundred thirty Members elected on a simple analogue basis from twenty-three equivalent regions. We have 12 other Member States.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u654	With a cross?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u655	With a cross, normally. And there are another fifty-eight single-sided regions with double-stages, where one-sided regions you vote in the second ballot, where the candidates of the parties go down to a list and the voter - there you don't put a cross - numbers his preferences. For example, he puts Mr Lebanese first, Mr Janakopoulos second, Mr Gregoriadis third and sweaty. I'm talking about an example. The calculation is made with the Australian system of scalable preference, so that we leave the tyranny of the relevant majority, the first - past - the post. How does it work? If Mr Lebanese here gets 50% plus one first option, he has been elected. Otherwise, Mr Gregoriadis who came out of the third party, his ballots actually flee from him and are redistributed according to his second choice. Mr. Janakopoulos takes it, may Mr. Lebanese take it, someone from the KIC, etc., until a candidate obtains 50% of the lists plus one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u656	Will he make sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u657	He'll make sure. It's algorithmic for sure. It's mathematically certain. It turns out very simple. Instead of the majority you have seen in the mono-chromatics, we have seven mono-chrome. All are elected by a Member, who has the majority of society against him. The system, which we propose, ensures the election of a Member with the maximum acceptance of the absolute majority of the region concerned. So we have proportionality, absolute equality of votes and accountability at local level, with the possibility, if you want, of the citizen, the voter in the local one-sided, people who do not necessarily come from his party space or who can put a second preference to someone who considers him capable or a candidate who considers him capable. Politically speaking, ladies and gentlemen, the National Electoral Commission is colonising the establishment of equivalent regions. This is a deep section of democratisation, which must be taken very seriously into account. We won't take it today or tomorrow. We know what you're going to vote on. But at least our minds will be blurred with that idea. I heard the criticism of the Communist Party of Greece. One colleague said that, for example, if all the second SYRIZA choices go to the New Democracy, the JRC and the other parties will never take any of these one-sided seats. A little more confidence in the Greek people's criterion. This is mine, if you want, a proposal to you. Some, again from the JRC, have accused us of distorting proportionality in our own way, at least as far as these fifty eight seats are concerned. I respond to them: the non-equivalent regions, even with the mere proportion of the JRC, distorts the proportionality of at least locally. The irreversible proportion will not exist without the combination of this current model of electoral system that we have with the German and Australian. Without this it is impossible to have, in addition to a model of European elections that the whole country is a region, really unadulterated analogue. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on what is unadulterated analogous only concerns us who are interested in analogy, all of us who are voting against the existence of the people's mandate in the name of governance. When you speak of rulership, do you know what we hear at Mera25? It is an euphemism you are using to hide your contempt for the real popular command. Our proposal was intended to contribute to the dialogue between political forces, who consider the proportionality and parity supreme. You now vote, after you have decided, on your perverse proportion. We are building, in our proposal, the hope of a future where electoral law will not be a battlefield for gladiators who are waging the people's mandate, but a permanent consensual framework for imprinting and not a distortion of popular will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u658	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Viliardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor for twelve minutes, as he will take the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u659	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece's three major problems with which we should deal with the night and not one bill behind the other are, firstly, our economy, which has just been a little stabilised in Nadir, and will explode at the latest when the next financial crisis erupts, secondly, the migration that is escalating constantly threatening to destroy our social fabric and, thirdly, the nationalities with Turkey to seriously threaten our territorial integrity, including because none of our governments had the courage to declare an AEZ, while only the Greek Solution tabled such a proposal. In the electoral law now I have to say: in modern reality, where the international economic elite leading to globalisation aims to dismantle national states and create a single multicultural market, it is essential to protect their citizens, their cultures, their stories, their wealth and their economy with a view to global cooperation between citizens and not economic and political elites. For this to happen, however, the autonomy of the national states must be maintained, which means strong governments, uncontrolled and unexploited by the domestic and international elites. In this context, no government is strong if it does not rely on its citizens, on the genuine majority, so that it does not fall under the pressure of domestic or international economic elites. Unfortunately, the Greek Constitution, one of the few countries that does not have a constitutional court, does not guarantee Greeks any of this by abandoning their fates to minority governments which, on the one hand, elect the media arranged and the controlled poll companies to manipulate citizens, on the other hand, the electoral laws, which, through mathematical algorithms, turn minority groups into government majorities. The only political system, now, based on the genuine majority is the presidential system. But we have the parliamentary system, in which only two things can happen. Firstly, through electoral laws, minority groups can be converted into parliamentary majorities and, secondly, there can be a parliamentary tradition of party co-operation. Unfortunately, in our country the first is prevailing, where minority groups are turned into majority voters, because there is no parliamentary tradition of party co-operation, and whenever there have been co-operation governments they have caused chaotic situations. Our parliamentary political system, therefore, does not rely adequately on relevant social forces, so that the situation has escaped and almost exclusively become unholy political games of political survival. In this context, given the lack of a presidential system in Greece, the only guarantee for the citizens is the simple analogue, with a limit of 3% to exclude nationally detrimental minorities and with a view to direct democracy. In this regard, the first basic argument of those who support the rather enhanced proportion - in practice, because it is, in fact, a weakened analogue - is that Greece needs stronger governments more generally, but it is easily destroyed, since the powerful governments are the ones that corrupted our citizens, overrun and bankrupt our country. They were the ones who finally turned it into a ignorance of its occupation forces, the Germans from an economic point of view and the Americans from a military perspective. The second basic argument is that our political system and our citizens are not mature, which is not the case, since the political system is ripening parties and citizens, not, of course, the opposite. The question, however, which arises here is whether we are in the state of maturity required by the rolling bankruptcy of our public and private sectors, the social dissolution, the mass evacuation of our young people abroad and the invasion of illegal immigrants, among other things, with a view to settlement of our homeland by Turkey in the context of the immigration hybrid war that is taking place against us, let alone, when Turkey has now replaced its military challenges with a claiming expansionist aggression due to our government's policy of aggression, a policy equivalent to the bend of their heads on lenders by signing the memorials and criminal PSI. So since we in the Greek Solution are not dogmatic, but realistic, in common sense, in the sense that we are linking what we believe in at that time and in the circumstances that prevail, we will vote for the electoral law proposed by the government at this juncture, as we analysed it, as recently as the election of the new President, who voted against it, in particular, because we are in favour of the full independence of the three powers: legislative, executive and judicial authority, without any conflict between them and absolutely no rolling door. In addition, with regard to the previous regime of reinforced proxy, the electoral law proposed today by the government is a step forward, very small, but in the right direction. In such cases, we have always been in favour, although many times its cowardice to launch something complete is outrageous. Support for the new electoral law does not mean, of course, that we ignore the fact that this political system and the praisingly enhanced analogues have led us to the present disparate situation, including, of course, the betrayal of Macedonia, in a situation where we are in danger of losing what we have and do not have, with a government willing to sell everything at degrading prices, confiscating and auctioning, in addition, the homes of the citizens, who unfortunately do not know that they will remain in debt to the rest of their loans, in order to place them as firewood in the debt altar, in a situation that even our territorial integrity is at risk for two hundred years after our release, because the irresponsible governments of the recent past have not even excluded our defence expenditure from the memoranda, such as Turkey, when it went bankrupt in 2001. Finally, it has led us to a situation which has enabled our country's always enemy, Germany, not even to call us at the international meeting in Berlin, despite the fact that it directly concerned us, in the worst possible way, of considering us as an inappropriate protectorate. Who thinks that? This country which has been hematizing Europe twice in less than fifty years' time, and today it refuses to honour its promise since 1953, according to which it would pay us what it owes us, about 300 billion euros, when it is united again. In closing, we hope that the seasons will change quickly, so that Greece will be able to take a firm step towards the future, adopting the immediate democracy, the only city that really ripens the citizens, releasing all their hidden forces, the only city that can give Greece the place it really deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u660	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou has the floor for seven minutes. Then, first, God, prepare to get Mr. Zebbles up in Step. I say "First God", because a political leader can come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u661	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill with the new electoral system, which introduces - and allow me to say - a political fair play of the Government of New Democracy, but also of the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, because the government, far from regularism and micro-participatory purposes, implements one of its central political commitments, which is no other than the abolition of the law of simple proportionality and the introduction of a new electoral system. And this is what it is doing today, at the beginning of its government service, just as the Prime Minister himself had himself committed himself. The choice of time is conscious, as the government does not want surprises, on the contrary, urges that the conditions must be clear and well known in time to all political forces, but also to the citizens, so that there is no doubt about party calculations and purposes. So we are doing exactly the opposite of what SYRIZA did about four years ago when at a recital of cynical tactics and opportunism, seeing the heavy election defeat that he was going to take, voted for the electoral law of mere analogy, with the sole aim of preventing the self-reliance of the New Democracy. It is really worth wondering how SYRIZA's colleagues continue to insist and defend even today the law of mere analogy, a law which, with mathematical accuracy, leads to political instability and instability. A law that does not allow the first party to form a self-powered government, even if it takes 47% of the vote. It seems that they are still blinding or ignoring that the simple proportional historically, whenever applied in our country, meant just one thing: political instability and short-lived governments of just a few months' duration. It also seems that not even the recent example of the self-government elections with the simple analogue has been enough. What would simple analogue bring? Paralysis in local government. Mayor who would not have the majority to command more vulnerabilities, which we have rushed and corrected with the recent Law 4623/2019. The new electoral law, which is being introduced today, strikes a balance between proportionality and governance. It ensures high proportionality for all parties and promotes representativeness, but also ensures the government's stability that our country so much needs in the critical current situation. It restores the bonus of seats for the first party, but will not be given indiscriminately and independently. It starts at the rate of 25%, which will be granted a 20-seat bonus, and is escalated according to the percentage received by the first party, with a maximum seat bonus of fifty. In simple terms, a party that receives about 37.5% can also have a totally reasonable sense of self-reliance. After all, the bonus of seats, not only is it not an undermining of the constitutional principle of popular sovereignty and representativeness, as was heard by the Most High Anti-Policy, but it is a sign of respect for the will of the citizens who decide who will ultimately govern the country. After all, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department, the principle of popular sovereignty means that Members are not appointed, but are elected. And further, the Constitution leaves the legislator with choice of the respective electoral law. The new electoral law therefore moves completely within the constitutional limits. This is also an answer to the objection of constitutionality tabled today. Responsibility was given by the State Secretary, Mr Lebanon, and by legal and political arguments. And in any case, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-President of the Commission, you cannot criticise the government for breaking the principle of popular sovereignty today when you were elected by a reinforced analogy, and while you were able at any time to amend it, you have ruled for four and a half years without any sign of guilt for the violation of the above constitutional principle, for which you are now being cut. The argument that the new electoral law does not favour the development of convergences and partnerships between the parties was also heard. However, this argument does not even respond to reality, since under no circumstances does this draft law exclude cooperation. Cooperatives, however, which are important to be the result of a political choice rather than a product of necessity because of existing electoral legislation. Our country needs real and substantial political shocks and not from heirly governments which have as their sole aim the sharing of power. In any case, however, the last and decisive reason for the government and the power of the political forces is the sovereign people. He decides on self-reliance and not on electoral systems. He defines the dynamics of the parties and can in his vote give self-reliance to a government, as he has done in the last elections, by giving the New Democracy Government the clear mandate to implement its government programme. And it is certain that the social majority has realised how important it is for our country, for our economy, for our national security to have a strong and stable government, such as the current New Democracy Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the deposit of today's electoral law is another demonstration of the consistency of the political culture that characterises the Government of New Democracy, but also the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis. Four-and-a-half years ago in discussing the bill of simple analogy, as Chief at the time of the opposition officer, it was committed that immediately after the elections in political neutrality and in a spirit of honesty and understanding, without any bazaar and any transaction, it would introduce a new electoral law that would be part of our political system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u662	Less than half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u663	This is what it is doing today with a modern electoral law that is definitely dealing with the paths of the electoral system and ensuring long-standing government stability. The country, ladies and gentlemen, under no circumstances can power, repeated elections and compulsory 'political marriages' be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u664	Thank you, too. Mr Zebilis has the floor, and then Mr Maravegias.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u665	God help, Mr. President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our country as in other European countries where there is no constitutional commitment there is the possibility of legislating that electoral system that meets the requirements of the times. So today we have to weigh the national interest together with our national tradition and also the spirit of our constitutional legislator. Here we must point out that our country has been having a culture of enhanced analogue system since the late 1950s. Also, almost all post-transitional governments under normal conditions were founded on a comfortable solid and disciplined parliamentary majority. A majority that ensured stability, cohesion, undisturbed longevity and prosperity. This has contributed to the modernisation and strengthening of the country, but also to the deepening and resilience of the critical and troubled periods of our democratic institutions. Does anyone think that today's critical period of geopolitical instability and national risks is appropriate for experimentation? That it is appropriate, in other words, to overthrow a long institutional tradition by adopting a completely foreign electoral system to our political customs? Of course not. The examples of Greece have already been mentioned. But I will say what happened even in countries with a similar tradition as in Spain. Four elections were held in four years. We had government, uncertainty and political unrest. On 28 April 2019, an election. On November 10th again. Walnuts again. To end up just in the beginning of 2020 with an anemic minority government. And as is usually the case, the political, social and economic crisis strengthened the far right that exceeded 15% in the last elections. The simple analogue, therefore, apart from the crisis, restored the far right, fascism and Frankishism in the great country of the Iberian Peninsula. Similar extremist phenomena are also presented with the major government coalitions, that is, when the parties of power, instead of changing to the government, are coalitioned, so that the opposition is exercised by the extremes of the political system. Furthermore, the introduction of electoral law is not unblocked in relation to the spirit of constitutional provisions, which, entangled in our long-standing political tradition, counteract political instability and prejudge elected parliamentaryism as a fundamental principle of parliamentary culture. This is reflected in Article 82(2) of the Constitution, which refers to the unity of the government, but in particular in Article 37, which has already been debated and established, as Mr Kamine said, but which introduces it by way of exception. This also seems to be the case with the limited margins it leaves. In other European states, the constitutional framework allows for the search for a government for a long period of time. In our country, due to the historical load of Julians, the system of exploratory orders is strict and typical, and it requires the formation of the government in ten to fifteen days and it is demonstrated that, if anything, it does not favour cooperation. And the reasonable question, of course, is why the previous government, which proposed the constitutionalisation of the simple analogy, did not also propose the revision of the provisions of Article 37 so that the flexibility of the procedure would facilitate the formation of coalition governments. We all know the answer. Because the previous government was not interested in any analogue, it was only interested in blocking the New Democracy's progress towards power. Because if he were really interested in the success of the project, he would have to help create a new culture of dialogue and national understanding. For the inappropriate analogy and therefore the mild political climate is not served by either bisexual and civil war logics of the type "or end them or end us" or by toxic empathy and fanatic behavior. Besides, if SYRIZA believed well in the simple analogue, he would care to form a culture of partnerships, forming after the elections of January and September 2015, coalition governments with ideological and programme-based features. On the other hand, the previous majority have chosen - and indeed twice - the creation of a one-party mentality government, which has seen a heterogeneous company, with one partner, a specific and independent government partner. And today, when you tell us all these nice things about progressive convergences, you must finally answer what progressive vision you shared with the Greek cackle of Orban, which ideological affinity you had with the ethnicism of ANELs, and which Greece you dreamed of together with the caricature of Salvini? And of course we do not tell them, your executives told the central committee in October 2018, when you assessed your own governmental cooperation as a traumatic experience, and of course it was an experience that defamated and compromised the quinteenness of the mere analogy that governments are. It is characteristic that, even after the solution of this rather than a partnership, you have not made a government of cooperation, but you have chosen what you are condemning today. In other words, a one-party government, with MPs who were seconded by other parties, in order to extend your authority until October 2019. However, the Greek people in the European elections have had a different view, as in the 2023 elections, its verdict will be heavy on those who have undoubted and unleashed their plans. And the most likely and painful at the same time is that this verdict will be expressed twice. The first elections will condemn micro-group games, hypocrisy and political amoracism and in the second elections the Greek people will give a vote of confidence to Kyriakos Mitsotakis to continue their efforts to regenerate and reboot the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u666	Mr Maraveyas has the floor and then Mr Cappatos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u667	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the electoral law is a particularly serious aspect of the democratic culture for the political system, because it also contributes to its proper functioning, or at least the electoral law in question should be treated seriously by all the major parties. Listening the other day to the Chief of Officerial Responsibility speaking to his party's parliamentary group, I realised that he made contradictory findings. So, speaking the day before yesterday, Mr Tsipras in his party on the new electoral law, predicted disastrous results for both the social majority and the country, because this law will lead to mono-party and almighty governments that have, according to SYRIZA, always made both wrong in the country. Assuming that the President of SYRIZA was serious, two very serious questions arise logically. Question One: Has he forgotten that he was the one-party government Prime Minister during the last SYRIZA period in power? If he does mean what he said about disastrous results, then it is obviously a matter of recognition for him of what the government of the "last time left" has done in the country. If so, we must congratulate him on his self-criticism and at least recognise the sincere remorse of the President of SYRIZA for his actions. Second serious question for Mr Tsipras: Who defines what is a social majority? I would answer how the elections set it. So it only includes those who vote. Another could answer that this is a wider social grouping on the basis of certain fundamental commons, I believe too. So what can be these common features, which define the social majority of Mr Tsipras? I would very much like to hear who you think you are representing, because instead of a social majority, I fear that we are talking today about a small minority and even extreme ones. But I guess SYRIZA himself has exactly the same fear. The fear that it is gradually transformed into a small minority, dividing into the election rates it had before 2012. What is the result of this unsuccessful prediction? But from the Chief of Officerial Response himself, which predicts that the new electoral law, which we are to vote on, will lead to bad monopolies, which will be almighty. Greater assumption of defeat than it can be. In simple terms, Mr. Tsipras accepts that SYRIZA will not be a first party again, because if he believed that he could once approach 38% of such a SYRIZA government, of course he could never be bad for himself, because certainly according to Mr. Tsipras, although sovereign, SYRIZA would naturally use his power only for good. On the other hand, since he eventually accepts that, although good, he will not be a first party, he obviously provokes that the New Democracy will be the one who will win the election and, as he says, will be even powerful. That's more than 38%. Here we simply ought as New Democracy to thank you, and you and your Chief, for flying white towel three and a half years before the next elections, creating a climate of victory for the New Democracy. And not just victory, but triumph, since your President predicts the almightyness of the first party, but something that the new law only gives when it reaches 40%. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know why Mr Tsipras felt the need to make such an avata to Mr Mitsotakis, unless this is a crisis of openness. Because it is honestly impossible to imagine SYRIZA staying a party of power when dealing with today's furious, old-fashioned positions, all of which we all know. I shall confine myself to just one such example, of extreme political reason. A colleague from the Qualified Opposition, who was called upon to express his party's public position on the draft law under discussion, predicted that after the next elections to be held with a mere proportional, free of polluting premiums, a progressive government will be set up, which will once and for all send the opposition to the New Democracy. So in fact no electoral law needs to be done, because you do not like the democratic rotation of parties in power. You just want a monolithic, supposedly progressive regime with SYRIZA permanently in the government, apparently nostalgic. So we have news for the furious proselytes of the existing socialism: Greece is a parliamentary democracy and that is how it will remain. Let no permanent chairs be dreamed of in the Ministries for themselves, with the New Democracy forever in the opposition, because in our democracy the voters are the ones who decide how the country is governed and no one else. One might well say that the new SYRIZA has changed minds, perceived its government deficit and is now trying to widen its cooperation field so that an allied government can form sometime. Besides, after his removal from power, he has returned to his old cause, progressive alliances, social majorities, and so on, things he had forgotten from 2015 to 2019, when he worked with Panos Kammenos, the man who in his youth smashed the election stands of Kallithea and discovered terrorists of "17 November" in the faces of your well-known officials. Okay, maybe Annell and SYRIZA cooperation wasn't exactly a progressive alliance, but it's okay. Let us agree to forget the extreme right for many SYRIZA members for a moment and look a little deeper. So what was the state of your bipartite government? Was it not a government of these bad ones, the one-party renounced today by SYRIZA? Most of Tsipra's administration was an ally, so it's supposed to be a good government, according to what you're claiming. The problem is that only SYRIZA claims it, because in fact that government has failed miserably, as evidenced, not only the disappearance of ANELs, but also your triple election defeat in 2019. Moral lesson: no government is automatically consecrated because they are multi-party or one-party. All there is is good governments and bad governments, one-party or not. But, in any case, you should not forget this very simple and important, that whoever the electoral law is to come back to the government will also need votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u668	Thank you very much. Mr. Cappatos from New Democracy has the floor and then Mr. Apostolos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u669	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today, we are discussing the electoral law and the mechanism that will ensure a result through the electoral process. This is the purpose of the elections, primarily to create a government. The elections are not an exercise of a census of the ideological beliefs of the electorate without giving rise to stability and the smooth domination of governments. So today the substance of the debate is not just about the method of allocating seats to the national elections. The impact of the changes on the method of electing MPs is wider and can have a decisive impact on the country's progress. That is why the government attaches great importance to changing the electoral law. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] But there is no such thing as a flawless electoral system. In the parliamentary democracies, depending on each country's characteristics, there is a combination of the need for government and the need to represent all political flows in Parliament. Greece has historical experience of the simple analogue that in many cases is traumatic. The flawless arguments of a covetous system, which is heard by some of Parliament's wings, are the same as that of reality. Most developed world countries do not have simple proportional systems. Greece is not an exception of some kind in this field. The Government of New Democracy quite rightly clears the terms of the electoral process immediately after its election and not at the end of the four-year period on the basis of other criteria. It does so not only for the national elections, but also for the vote of out-of-state voters and for the local government. But with reference to local government, we have the opportunity to draw clear conclusions on the effects of the mere proportional effect on the municipalities and regions. Ask, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the mayors and districts throughout Greece. What is their experience of this electoral system? We are talking about hundreds of cases where a similar electoral system is actually implemented with what you voted to apply to the next national election. The majority of people who serve in local government, who apply it every day, consider this to be a failure and inefficient, which is why they urgently call for change. Unlike the institutionally correct attitude of the government which brings electoral law to the start of its term of office, today's Reputable Opposition did not show corresponding responsibility. SYRIZA agreed to be re-elected in September 2015 by a law that now wins, let alone when you insist that it is your top priority to establish simple proportionality. Why didn't SYRIZA bring the respective legislation into its first government term, but did it later, in the second term, when he knew that he would lose the next election? Your practice is rather hypocritical. Contrary to the attitude of the Opposition, which changes its view of the electoral law according to the context, the New Democracy has a stable view that the Greek people know about. The current draft law is therefore the mandate of Greek citizens. They approved it in the elections. We have made it quite clear in the election that the New Democracy would change the electoral law and clearly described how this change would be. But, ladies and gentlemen, in a country in which the political parties have deep disagreements about very basic functions of the state, how exactly will the simple analogue function, without having already achieved consolidated shocks? A characteristic example today of the educational system and the education we have been discussing these days in the House. This is a matter for which, in almost all European countries, there is a cross-party consensus. Will political convergence suddenly be blackmailed on the issues we disagree with by means of a coexistence and, indeed, on a mere proportional system? Because, let us be honest, with the simple analogue almost necessarily, the two biggest parties must prevail. If we want real shocks, ladies and gentlemen, they should be achieved by election and programme over time, not by post-election cooperation and trade depending on the outcome of the polls. In order to achieve the convergences, a long period of maturation must be carried out both in society and in the parties. My view is that there must be the possibility for society's problems to be solved by governments that have a clear ideological and political orientation so that they can be legitimised to take difficult decisions. Let Greek citizens decide in what direction these changes will be. If citizens want to change their policies, they must be given the opportunity to have it. Let us give them the opportunity to choose whether or not they want to work together, whether or not they want one-party or multi-party governments. The law proposed by the government ensures that Greek citizens will now have this possibility. On the contrary, the law passed by SYRIZA essentially imposes a certain form of multi-party governments. I shall conclude with one comment on the days we live. We all agree that electoral law cannot be shaped on the basis of the timeliness and events that come and leave the scene. But let us be honest in this Chamber. We are watching what is happening in our geopolitical neighbourhood and developments in foreign policy. Does anyone think that Greece today would have a service government, a power to take initiatives and decisions that would bind the next governments? Even worse, would the political system in Greece stand today still in talks about forming a government? What would be our credibility as political parties, when Greek citizens urgently demand stability? This is not only about the government's effectiveness or the legitimacy of our foreign policy decisions. It is also about the way the other international actors treat us. Finally, we do not need to argue about the negative effects of government on the economy. Does Greece today stand to risk both its economy and the effectiveness of its foreign policy? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the luxury of many European countries, where political parties consult the conditions for forming cooperation governments for months, even for years. That is why we must enable citizens to decide whether or not they want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u670	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Evangelos Apostleou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u671	Ladies and gentlemen, the democratic and pluralist operation and formation of the Parliament through the proportional representation of political parties and coalitions is a matter of central importance. Over the past twenty-five years, electoral systems of enhanced analogy have been imposed on various versions and methods of implementation without prior consensual procedures and have led to a alteration of the Greek people's true will. The propaganda of the account of the self-powered strong governments, the risk of insolence and fear of tomorrow contributed to the distortion of the genuine and democratic functioning of the representative system in our country. With the adoption of the enhanced analogy system, what emerged was the mismatch between the electoral force of the parties and their parliamentary representation. The only winner was the ruling party, which, of course, legislationd solely on its own and intended to win the next elections. Ladies and gentlemen, at international, but also national level, it has been found that the institutions of representative democracy are being tested at the expense of political, economic and social developments, so that in many cases their ability to express the citizens' demands genuinely. At the same time, an ever-increasing proportion of citizens feel blocked and not expressed by representative institutions, and Parliament including. The establishment of a proportionate relationship between the electoral and parliamentary power of the parties is the only way for the fair, equal, legal and democratic representation of the people in Parliament and in general of public life. This is the only way to strengthen pluralism and equal treatment of the country's political forces. With the simple analogue and the abolition of the 50 seats bonus, each citizen's vote takes particular weight, and at the same time protects his role in democratic processes, protects the equivalence of vote, the principle of non-negotiable to modern democracies, achieves the representation of more opinions and interests in the House, avoids artificial majorities which are not equal to the actual majority, promotes alliances as a result of compromises and negotiation with the participation of various political and social forces, avoids phenomena of political parties, which often owe their dominant role in the electoral system itself. The simple analogue system promotes and promotes the formation of a government of cooperation, as required by the modern needs of pluralism, democracy and social cohesion of citizens, strengthens governmental stability by co-determination, control and real political initiatives that in addition ensure social cohesion and peace. With the implementation of the system of mere analogous voted by the SYRIZA government, the equivalence of vote is guaranteed, it is in line with European standards, it is recommended and promoted by many governments, it proves in practice its respect for popular sovereignty as the basis of the constitution, namely the principle that the power of the government and of the state has been created and maintained with the consent of the people, which is the source of all political powers through its elected representatives. We are, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when there is a need for consultation, consensus and planning convergences. You, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, regrettably insist on the logic of the one-party governments, namely those that have led us to the crisis. You ignore that the ten-year crisis forced the political system into shocks and consents. We, loyal to the consistent view of the Left and despite our party interest, have introduced the simple analogue precisely in order to strengthen the culture of programming convergences. You have not been talking for so long about the equalisation of the counterparts' votes and at the same time about abolishing the voting rate as a whole by reintroducing the bonus for the first party. The simple analogue seems to scare you, not because you fear power, but why you cannot serve co-operation governments. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, digest it, the simple analogue came to stay. The next elections, whatever you're working on, will take place on a simple analogue basis, and the next day in this race will be a progressive government on the basis of progressive convergences and agreements. Your thoughts of double elections will only bring you back to the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u672	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese Spyros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u673	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first cycle of the institutional interventions of the government is now being closed, with which the philosopher of philosophy, a philosophy that we have all understood, seeks and achieves consensus in the big and critical, but does not hesitate to collaps with choices of regularity and party self-interest that are seen by the small, but are unable to distinguish the great and beneficial for Greece. The Revision of the Constitution, the vote of the expatriates, the election of the new President of the Republic - and you will allow me to congratulate him on his election - they have sent a message of consensus and consent to initiatives with strong symbolism and self-proof value. I wish Mr. Tsipras, who will be here to speak in a moment, to continue in this pattern and not return to his old self. Today, then, we are talking about the electoral law that is essentially the golden incision between representativeness and rulership. We have been involved in the election, and we are implementing it as a result of a post-election and, indeed, at a neutral political time, only six months after the elections which took place without surprise, without any micro-political purposes, with only concern for the interest of the place which is guaranteed if the first party is granted a premium with the necessary seats so that it can actually govern. We fully respect the popular verdict and the principle of proportionality and prove it by giving a premium only if the first party exceeds 25%. At the same time, we recognise that electoral partnerships are a reality, which is why we give bonuses on specific terms to a combination of parties. We hear SYRIZA breaking his clothes about simple and inappropriate analogy, which he supposedly legislated in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we have talked about this and this morning, you cannot convince anyone. If you really wanted the simple act to be implemented, you would be one of the first to vote in semester, but you did not. In 2015, after your proud negotiation, and since our party backed up not to get out of the euro, you led the country to second elections with the law that you now denounced as infamous, with the gift of course the fifty seats, to stay together in the government chairs, which you obviously liked. And when you saw the political change of wind then you suddenly remembered your simple analogue and leftover. You saw the simple analogue not as an ideological and pre-election commitment, but as a tool to narrate the course of the country and of course of the New Democracy. So, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, let's at least be honest now. The simple analogue you remembered when you realized that the people are about to send you where they sent you to you, at the headquarters of Anti-Population, because you are the epic party of opportunism and political makevelism, the party that, in order to come to power, does not hesitate to dismantle the country. You are claiming that the mere proportionalness is the quintousity of the electoral systems. But you will allow me to return briefly to the rich Greek history to show you that the exact opposite is the case. In 1926, for the first time, the simple analogue was applied due to the particular political conditions of the time. Acute conflict over the state, Asia Minor Destruction led the then political world to believe that the simple analogue would be a solution. However, they were misguided. Insolence and chaos were its consequences. Not in the systems like what we are proposing, but in the majority, in order to form the Venizelos government. In 1932 and 1936, the elections were held again with the simple analogy. The result was again the fragmentation of the political forces, which paved the way to the dictatorship of Metaxas. In 1946 and 1950, in the turbulent years before and after the civil war, the elections were held again on a mere analogy. Again fragmentation of the political forces, once again inability to form serious governments, chaos, powerlessness. Finally, more recently, in 1989, PASOK in an unprecedented tactical movement - which, let us be honest, only you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are competing and surpassing - with the election-cooking at the time of the flawless memory of Koutsogiorg and Tsohatzopoulos, imposed the simple analogue that you are supporting today, making it virtually impossible - they thought - to form a government. It took three elections, with all the consequences, for the New Democracy to get its wild beast 47%, so that it could form a government. Ladies and gentlemen, the place has institutional memory, and it remembers and knows that the simple analogue has constantly damaged our homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u674	When you say "Government of the New Democracy", you mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u675	Answer them and then raise the tone of your voice. Let it go. Today, however, the crucial dilemma is ‘government or governance’. We hear the argument and perhaps it is useful for us too that the first party's premium, despite the security controls we have, works at the expense of the people's vote, depriving other parties of seats. The weighting you understand is not easy, but it is necessary. The need to form a government is essential. Unfortunately, this culture of consensus and cooperation does not exist under the responsibility of the political system in our country. It has not been a long time since you people who are talking about consensus today called your colleagues in the House 'Germany', 'prosecutors' and invited them - your partners then - to lynch up. Unfortunately, that's what happened. Turn back a little time to see what Mr. Kammenos said, where you had him Vice President. The partisanisation, inefficiency and contagion of the Greek public administration exclude luxury types of Belgium, which had no government for two years, but the state was a clock. After all, we have seen the dissolutionary consequences of simply proportional representation in the recent elections to local government. But Greek peculiarities also have intrinsic weaknesses. It is a mechanism to distort the popular will and circumvent democracy in the programming speech. In the republics the parties claim popular vote, presenting specific political programmes. The simple analogue, however, forces parties to seek substantially more post-election alliances, thereby depriving them of their election positions by a state. So, behind closed doors and after a feast, that is to say, by the polls, you decide, in the absence of any government programme. And often attempts at consensus can also lead to monsters like what you have built, such as your government with the ANELs. However, because the electoral law beyond ideology is just mathematics, let us look at the results of the July 2019 elections in the light of the mere analogy. The New Democracy would then receive - and there you have all made a mistake in mathematics today - a hundred thirty seats, i.e. the bonus is only 9%, it concerns twenty-eight seats, not forty-five seats, SYRIZA three, the Change Movement twenty-seven, the KKE seventeen etc., the Greek Solution 12 and the Mera25 eleven. So tell us, but give us a concrete answer: without the first party how could it form a government? Who would you rule with then? With Mr. Velopoulos? Tell us. With Mr. Varoufakis? With the first is more likely, since you have acquired the knows-how with your previous experience with Kammenos. With Mr Varoufakis, however, we would like you to say this: all these comrade stabbings, all these good reasons for the 'poulou' of the previous period will come back and be built on our backs. He also said something right today, in my opinion, and Mr Varoufakis showed that we should always think about electoral committees beyond the parties. But I wanted to answer him from this step forward that we are fortunately not having any problems of fraud in the elections, in any of the previous elections. But the second thing he told us and analysed a plan on how to bring in a new electoral system is exactly the same logic in the first half of 2015 that you trusted him with the country's governance. There he dismantled the country's finances, dismantled Greece. Now with a system of his own, hybrid, "barefalaky", he would come to find a solution to the electoral systems of the whole world. Would you then rule again with Mr. Varoufakis? He put five or six systems in. So you want a turbulence. "Big turbulence, wonderful situation!", Mao said then and you copy today. We do not support this view. We are therefore legislating on this law, because we want governance. We give bonuses to the first party, because for us, it cannot - but prove it, instead of smiling - form a government with simple proportionalness without the first party. We're waiting for your answers in particular with numbers. We are also listening to many of your Members, but also to Mr Tsipras in your parliamentary group, talking about the progressive party that will defeat the New Democracy when the elections are held. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I would like an answer for that too. What makes you think that you are our country's progressive party? The abstracts of PASOK that you have included in your parliamentary group and your party in general or your co-government with Panos Kammenos? Progressive party is the New Democracy party, which, with its options, leads the country to a new era.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u676	That's what you do elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u677	This style in your party, Mr. Janakopoulos, not in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u678	Please, Mr. Janakopoulos, calm down. Then you'll take the floor and you'll talk. Calm down. Please, Mr. Levane, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u679	I wanted to tell you - and we are open to hear you - that a progressive party in our country is New Democracy, which, with its choices, leads the country to a new era. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Beyond the smiles, we want to place them. The leadership of Mitsotakis is transforming the country, making it a modern European country, with young people, whom we have chosen for our Government and with the appetite for work, with mistakes, but with the courage to correct them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, once again responsibility for populism, the truth with lies, the moral advantage, which has been deeply afflicted over your days, is being addressed. Citizens have memory and judgment. Don't underestimate them. They know well that, contrary to what PASOK did in 1989 and you in 2016, we implement quickly and decisively what we have committed in the run-up to elections. We define the rules of the game three and a half years before the election. This, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is called a moral advantage and the New Democracy is the only one that has it. It would be a sign of political maturity from you, I appreciate, of voting by a large majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u680	Mr. Levant, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u681	We don't want to be blind. We believe once again, unfortunately, that the walls of political opportunism will stand up against the common good, against the will of the citizens of stable governments capable of making roads forward and prospects. That is why the next elections, in fact, will be with simple analogy, but they will follow second ones and with the support of the Greek people, the New Democracy will win them for the good of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u682	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u683	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u684	About what? Is there a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u685	I imagine by mistake, Mr Levane, you said that anyone once trusted the country's rulership with Mr Varoufakis. Apparently, you know that never happened. Mr Varoufakis was not a Prime Minister of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u686	Mr. Tsipras trusted him with the Ministry of Finance. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u687	Thank you. Now Mrs Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u688	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral system is one of the most important factors influencing the citizen's relationship with the state. The pluralist formation of the Parliament, a constant demand from the democratic world, in direct correspondence to the popular will as reflected in the polls, is the barometer of popular sovereignty. What does Mr Mitsotakis and his staff declare? It doesn't matter what the people voted. The first party will steal part of the seats of the other parties and rule itself. Why would he do that? And here comes the scarecrow of so-called insolence. 'The people don't know how to vote', the New Democracy tells us. "We know better." But the voter, going to the polls knows both the risks and the benefits of each election result and gives his mandate: Work together or not to cooperate. 'No' is repeated by the New Democracy. "The people do not know. We know better." The first will take his super gift so that he can rule alone and as for the popular verdict, contempt. And then, hypocritically, the one-party government defenders themselves will come to the balconies and vote for a modern Greece, in favour of consensus, in favour of the country's European orientation. But in the rest of Europe, allied governments are the rule, not the exception. And we saw that when some people talk about cybercracy and unobstructed implementation of their programme, they simply mean they want the state to be spoiled for themselves. One-party governments, with large majority voting, were the ones that brought our country to the brink of destruction and bankruptcy. We remember the well-known party diploma that has damaged the country, just through unaccompanied monopolies. The current six months of one-party, final, unmistakable and flexible governance by Mr Mitsotakis have unfortunately reminded our people of the alleged advantages of the one-party governments in all areas. It is well known your timeless defects: Appointment of dimes. Full attack on labour rights. A new growth in unemployment. Police operations in breach of any legal concept. There are also major mistakes in national affairs. Unbelievable manipulation on the refugee question. Privatisation of those social goods are privatized, with a profit for independent entrepreneurs. Control and involvement with the media. These are the characteristics of your one-party government. The government of SYRIZA was a parenthesis of the leadership of the New Democracy, which in no way wants to see it repeated. Considering herself an exclusive ruler of this place, she legislates with a view not to which rulership, but her own stay in the chair of authority. So he does not hesitate to say that the next elections will be worthless. And for what? Because they're going to be just proportional. We also hear your criticisms because SYRIZA did not vote earlier on the simple analogue. But do you remember in what state the country was in 2015? Do you remember in what state you handed over the country? It was a country with empty funds, with an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in time of peace, a country with 28% energy, a people losing hope and all dignity. Do you remember the trap you set up and set up for SYRIZA to fall, but the Greek people themselves fell? SYRIZA voted for the simple analogue when the country stabilised in 2016. And you also have the courage to judge us for the coexistence with Panos Kammenos, you who won the elections six months ago outside the memorial, with 27 billion reserves, to eat them now in pies and in golden chairs, pretending to be the overpatriots, with macedonians and buffaloes, with a pre-election agenda of the post-Greek Right, "Greece - Greeks" and "father - religion - family", filling up society. A hate that now with the refugee issue, which will be your Waterloe, comes back to you and knocks on your door. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA government, loyal to its ideological principles, to the principles of justice and equality, has voted for the simple analogue. Because simple analogues are the necessary prerequisite for the release of our society's healthy forces and a new reality is being built. These moves by SYRIZA are an active invitation to participate in democracy. Because we believe that the only ones who can go ahead of this place are the citizens themselves and not some professional cacedars, who are promoted by systemic media, after transactions behind closed doors. We seek to restore citizens' confidence in democratic institutions and the political system. We are seeking a new relationship with politics. You, because you fear the participation of citizens in common, are looking for ways to disappoint the world, to sit on his couch, not to be interested in being able to reproduce the privileges and privileges of your friends. You don't want Greek and Greek citizens. You want Greeks and Greeks "persons". The electoral system you are proposing is a distortion of representation and common sense. You want the few to rule the many. Because for you, democracy is a Halloween uniform to hide a feud that you imagine belongs to you inherited. While for us, democracy is our Sunday clothing, which we wear with respect and pride, hoping and claiming to stop this clothing being Sunday and become daily, becoming our work form. We know them well, ladies and gentlemen, your one-party governments, minority governments. These led us to bankruptcy. These led us to the memorials. And in this past, you won't turn us back. It will be demonstrated in the country's next elections, the elections on a simple analogue basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u689	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou for the time. A communiqué to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Standardization of its individual donation contracts from 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation “Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation” and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade the health infrastructure ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A'170)’. Now Mr Constantine Marcou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u690	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I remember correctly - why would I be wrong, remind me, colleagues of the New Democracy - this beastly government of Constantine Mitsotakis fell in 1990 when Mr Samaras dropped it or was I wrong? That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u691	In 1990, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u692	1993. Mr. Samaras shot her. That's where you don't disagree. I would therefore like to say to you, with regard to these non-documents which are received by the speakers of the New Democracy and then monotonously, at least 50%, you repeat them, that you criticise those who send them. Because saying that SYRIZA did the simple analogue once he saw elections coming and lost them, three years ago, he's a bit of a miserable on your part. Because in 2016 it became the simple analogue, and the elections took place in 2019. So tell them either to change the non papers spellers or be more careful. When Solon was asked what is the best form of the culture, he answered with a question himself. ‘For whom people and for what age?’. The same answer could be given to the question of what is the best form of electoral system. Because in the modern democratic rule of law and, in particular, in the parliamentary systems, the choice of a particular electoral system does nothing but reflect not only the political education and maturity of a society in a particular space and time, but also the intensity of political passions and it is a safe method of measuring policy manipulation, since, depending on the type of electoral systems, parliamentary correlation is also formed. This is therefore the criticality of the electoral system, which is chosen at a particular place and time, as this shapes the electoral behaviour of voters, the political speech of the parties, even the composition of the political and party system itself. Modern international and European trends, as well as the same philosophy of the current constitution, left a wide margin of discretion to the joint legislator regarding the regulation of the electoral process and the electoral system. It is in favour of extending the democratic nature of this process. A total of eighteen elections were held with seven different electoral laws, i.e. about two elections by law. This proves the working use of the electoral law as an instrument of intervention in the political system and follows the targets of the sovereign power block. That is why all the political systems and elections - except of course the mere analogy of 2016 voted by the SYRIZA government - are essentially serving a goal, the emergence of self-powered governments within a framework of bipartial rotation. Mr President, representative of the New Democracy, you have brought us examples of failure, invoking experiences a hundred years ago, such as division. And you have brought us examples of failure, invoking the post-election time directly. It's completely inappropriate and shows the weakness of your arguments. However, the ten-year crisis forced the political system into shocks and consents. The fact is that at national and international level, especially in the past decade, the institutions of representative democracy have been tested at the expense of political, economic, social developments, and in many cases their ability to genuinely express the citizens' demands. The economy has defined politics and not the opposite, that is, the political economy. At the same time, an ever-growing proportion of citizens felt blocked and not expressed by the institutions, including Parliament, to channel its discontent into anti-social and anti-political outlets. Do not wonder why periodically youth is indignant or absent from the events. In our country in 2012, post-government bi-communism was violently overturned and to some extent unexpectedly. In the successive junctions of May - June the traditional power parties suffered an unprecedented descent in the ranks of the electorate and its preference was expressed in other formations. That was a surprise. Since then, therefore, on the occasion of the overthrow of the legacy of traditional bipartisanism will begin to be questioned, hesitantly at the beginning and, more seriously, without preconditions for the first self-evident combination. It was then made loud and clear by thousands of citizens in Greece and other countries of Europe and the world the dominant demand for more and real democracy. For all these reasons, it has been considered imperative to take initiatives that would restore the representativeness of Parliament and the confidence of the citizens in it, with the top choice of the introduction of the electoral system, simply proportional. That is what the political system has to deal with at this stage, to salvage its credibility. In July 2016, the parliament passed a law establishing the proportional electoral system, abolishing the bonus, which was established by the current electoral law. The amendment of the electoral system and, more generally, of the electoral law was a flagrant initiative in the direction of institutional reforms. It was also the satisfaction of a just and permanent request from the democratic world of the country. SYRIZA faithful to the constant and time-consuming view and despite his party interest - as much as to repeat it that he was for party interest, only yourself are convinced - established the simple analogue. It was chosen that the analogue system should be established so that the House should be truly representative of the Greek society. Its implementation in the next elections will mark the definitive upheaval of consensual parliamentaryism. It will mark the passage through opportunistic government coalitions to substantial democratic co-operations finding real political shocks. In any case, there is a great deal to be done to restore the unreliable credibility of the political parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, just a minute, Mr President. The democratic and pluralist formation of the House through proportional representation of the political parties is a matter of key importance - believe it - is a question of democracy. You will find it - as with the immigration in front of you the problems - in front of you as a sovereign party of the political system. The greatest possible correlation of parliamentary representation towards its real electoral power is an important condition for restoring citizens' confidence in democratic institutions and the political system. In this sense, of course, we are expressing our dissatisfaction with his return to the old regime. Now, the New Democracy cannot speak of an equal vote of homosexuals because it defends the inequality of vote of Greek citizens. Your mere analogy frightens you because you fear the insolence, not the real, but the insolence within your party and the unity of your party. In the next elections, no matter what happens, we will have a progressive left-wing government. She's progressive, dear. Be careful, it's not devotion, progress or conservativeism. It is a specific expression of enlightenment and repentance, which expresses certain characteristics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u693	Mr. Comrade, will you finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u694	I'm done. It's not a curse, it's not a dedication. Don't take it like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u695	If you live back for two hundred years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u696	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u697	Government, therefore, with SYRIZA in body and on the basis of convergences and agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u698	Mr Amanatidis Giorgos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u699	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer four basic questions raised in the public debate both during the previous debate and in the context of the meetings prior to the committee responsible. First question: Why does the government replace electoral law with a new one? The government believes in its election commitments is proposing significant amendments to electoral legislation to prevent the country's inevitably malfunctioning, as has happened in the past, from applying proportional electoral systems. In fact, in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the application of a proportional system to the elections to promote elected representatives of local government, where, if the present government had not been regulated, municipalities and regions would have been subject to a status of government. SYRIZA's simple analogue makes the formation of a government practically impossible and leads the country to paralysis. With the simple analogue of Law 4555/2018, self-resistance is impossible even at 47%. Think that with SYRIZA's simple analogue, New Democracy in 2004 at a rate of 45.4% could not form a self-powered government, because it would detach a total of forty-three seats. In other words, the simple analogue does not allow a party that was voted on by one in the two voters to govern. We will not leave the country at the mercy of intergovernmentalism and repeated elections, which reduce the international authority and cause destabilisation in the national economy and its geopolitical position. A representative system is an electoral system that ensures, before all, a country's ability to govern, which respects the voting mandate. Because it must be the citizens who decide what kind of government they want and not the electoral system. As the explanatory statement of the draft law rightly states, which was very well-worked - a mere proportional system necessarily distorts the voter's opinion, as it tends to postpone the issue of critical consensus and compromises for post-election and not before. What's the truth about the bonus? Undoubtedly, the electoral law deposited by the Government is more proportional than the law in force until the July 2019 elections. The basic principle of the electoral system, as the government suggests, relates to a proportional distribution of seats if the first party collects a percentage of the valid ballots of less than 25%. So, just proportionally up to 25% and no premium for the party that raises less than 25%. Simultaneously, 50-seat bonuses. Here is an innovation in the new draft law. Second question: why does the government change the electoral law now? The draft law comes to a vote in the House about three and a half years before the end of the parliament's term. That is, in time away from the next election, as was pointed out by several colleagues earlier. In other words, the government brings the electoral law to the parliament in an election-neutral time just to disconnect it from any suspicion of electoral feasibility. In fact, as we speak, it brings about a law which, based on current polls, is probably unfair to the ruling party. This confirms that our concern is to complete as soon as possible the institutional reforms that will ensure in the country the political stability needed and allow us to intensify our work for the benefit of our citizens. Contrary to SYRIZA, who is lawfully analogous, he was aimed solely at preventing New Democracy, as a first party, from forming a self-powered government. Third question: Are the objections of the bonus anti-constitutionality? Ladies and gentlemen, Bonus has also been judged by decisions of the Supreme Special Court fully constitutional and any appeals have been expelled in the last elections. In fact, it is an explicit requirement of Article 51(2) of the Constitution that parliamentarians represent the nation and not the parties from which they come. Fourthly: Are the Objections of the Objection to the Non-Creation of a Intergroup Committee to reach a consensus? The opposition is accusing us of not having a debate. Election law issues have been the subject of a wide debate between the parties for many years. The positions of all are therefore well known and have been formulated in every appropriate way. Indeed, I have heard the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Livano, asking the committee a reasonable question and not getting an answer. So he asked if there is an electoral law that Certifying Opposition agrees to discuss other than mere proportionally. So is there a basis on which we can discuss? If the answer is negative, why is the objections to non-interlocutory? To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, a common component is achieved between the proportionality of representation given by the people's mandate, electoral power and government stability. The aim is rulership with fair representativeness. This is served by this draft law, which I am also voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u700	Thank you, Mr Amanatidis, for keeping time. Mrs Brysidou has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u701	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on electoral law is to be passed in the first half of this government. And it comes early because, first of all, the Prime Minister is loyal to the election announcements and, as we committed ourselves to the world and it appeared from the support of the citizens that they want to change the electoral law, he has come to the vote. It also comes at the beginning of this government's term of office, because we do not want to have influence and party feasibility. It also shows that there is an organisation and that the government wants to set the limits and the framework within which the elections are to be held, that the Members are elected, that the country should be governed. And along with the Final State Legislation, he also set out the framework for how individual issues will be organised and managed. Because in order for a government to proceed properly, it has to set the rules straight, so that we can know where we are going and how we will bring the best possible result. Election law has good principles. First of all, it gives bonuses to the first party, but when it has a serious percentage, that is, 25%. And from there, for every half per cent, it gives a seat. So at about 38% the first party can ensure the marginal self-reliance in the fifty-five of a Member of Parliament. When the Greek people give a percentage to the first party of 38%, I think it makes sense to have at least fifty one seat. From there on in 40% can take the bonus maxim, which is the fifty seats, but which are not a gift to the first party, because with the simple analogue anyway, the twenty-three seats would take them. It's about twenty-seven seats. The positions taken by rapporteurs from other parties are concerned, above all, I think the citizens and, secondly, us. First parties with small percentages speak of the very negative threshold of 3%, and of course they curse it. But as a second thought each of us will think that they may not be concerned with the law's injustice, but their own security and their introduction into the House, and that is why they do not vote for it and curse it. Other parties with higher percentages consider partnerships to be very important. SYRIZA's attitude is problematic and the persistence and persistence of the support of mere analogy, and this shows a defeat. As if it would never be a first party again, and that is why they do not want either bonuses or the opportunity to govern the first party. Of course, this attitude and that logic do not have an excuse for SYRIZA's because it has had the opportunity within the time it has been in power in the first half of the year to launch and vote on the simple analogue. I do not think that they are right, because hundreds of laws have been passed. He could also, if they really believed him, be able to vote for him. Electoral law elects MPs to form governments that will run the place and solve the problems of the Greeks. It is not the electoral law to be able to elect as many Members as possible from the different parties or here in Parliament is a concentration area so that each one of us can place himself in line with the ideas and say his or her views. It is not an area of philosophical debate. These are positions of responsibility and those who have been elected by the Greek people must look at all these problems that our fellow citizens have. We see how much of our fellow citizens are beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income. We see how many kids have left. We see the large proportion of unemployment and the closure of shops. We see the great risks we have in national matters. We see the danger that the insurance funds run. All of this cannot be ignored here, and only here can we fight against each other how many Members will be more than either party. Here we must feel the responsibility of what we have and certainly the first party must take responsibility for it and govern it, and be able to govern it. Not to have all the MP ministers from his own party, but to be able to implement his programme, so that he can have the responsibility of implementing things, helping the Greeks and protecting our country. That is the reason for rulership, and that is why bonuses must be given to govern the first party. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has not shown that he has any issue either with the partnerships or with the right opinion of any Member from any party. But how will cooperation take place? Everyone has their own schedule. There are different views on the same subject. When we work together, what are we gonna do? On two topics, will we apply the idea of one party and the third of the other party who has proportionally supported us with his vote, because otherwise we cannot have a majority? This is not how countries are managed. Self-reliance must exist, bonuses must be given to the first party, and partnerships can be implemented in many ways. The committees can put the views of all the Members and I think they are heard when they are in the right direction. And, of course, cooperation can also be done by voting and by voting in favour of the laws, where, with a common voice, we can also get out of our citizens and show that we are determined outside the borders of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u702	Thank you. Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u703	Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the abolition of the mere analogous and returning to the previous electoral system, with which the Government of New Democracy comes to remind the Greek people of authoritarianism, but also the hypocrisy that it hides under the person of the supposed consensus and understanding that it constantly invokes and demands. With this draft law, it ends the search for political convergence and cooperation in the country, as well as the control of government power. And I think that's the most important thing. In addition, with what the government is proposing today, we are returning to an anachronistic and old majority voting system, which leads to reasonable embodiment within the political system, but also to reasonable distortion and alteration of the Greek people's vote. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In reality, what the New Democracy Government wants is to restore a system of electoral that discourages, prevents, repulses people from polling. At the same time, the New Democracy seeks to serve a deep-rooted concept that it has as an exception and considers the state to be its own spoil. It prevents programmatic shocks between the parties, just to come then and share the pie only with its own children and make virtually undisturbed ruffles and services. And that is exactly what we observe and see in the first six months of governance. We see this, in fact, through the vehicle of your state of service. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the criticisms of the MPs of the government, but also of the New Democracy, is that SYRIZA did not bring the simple analogue in the first half of 2015. You will, however, allow me to remind our colleagues and colleagues, in response to this cheap argument, that SYRIZA, in co-government with the ANEL party in the first half of 2015, was concerned with closing holes from the stealing of the New Democracy. We were working to save the country from bankruptcy, but also the people from the extreme poverty to which you brought it. I would, however, like to note and remind the citizens who are listening to us that SYRIZA, loyal to his ideological principles and values, to the principles of democracy, justice, equality and, above all, to the people's sovereignty - values perhaps unknown or rejected by you - has made a solid demand for the whole democratic and progressive world, the implementation of the mere proportionality of the House's polyphony. And it has not only remained there, but then it has also made progress in the implementation of simple proportional and local government, while at the same time establishing other important areas, such as the break-up of the large regions, but also the right to vote for the young people of the seventeen years. There too, we have heard too many criticisms from the New Democracy party. Instead of discussing today how to deepen as a political world in these democratic reforms, instead of discussing governments for cooperation, for planning convergences, for a basis for democracy, for collaborative logic, unfortunately, with the New Democracy's responsibility, we are leading to an incredible setback in the 1950s and 1960s. And it's not just the electoral system you've proposed, but it's all the way you're dealing with the people, the way you govern. So, on the pretext of rulership, as you say, to one-party governments of the past, which, enjoying the bonus of forty or even fifty seats, have had the almightyness to do what they want without any control, without any backing. That's why you led the country into bankruptcy, memorials and austerity. Let us not forget what has happened very recently in this country. So the real dilemma for us is one: Are we going to move forward with Greece on cooperation and progress, or with Greece on bankruptcy that you are constantly supporting? Greece of bankruptcy, unfortunately, has been based on a covetous system that alters the expression of the Greek people. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we are serving Greece in cooperation with our principles and ideological project of popular expression, justice, equality of vote and equality. The fact that today's electoral bill excludes the coalition of parties comes to confirm the real intentions of the New Democracy Government. While you are constantly asking for consensus, but you are hypocritically asking, you are punishing the cooperation of parties, discourage cooperation and understanding, you are bringing as a new outdated electoral system that favours one-party governments, while partnerships and cooperation governments are moving on throughout Europe. In other words, you constantly invoke your European identity. But you do this, among other things, because you think that you will earn some time to stay in power, and that is the most vulgar, I would say, and offensive to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, while the Greek society has now begun to take one blow after another, both in the area of work, in the field of insurance, in education, in national matters, in the field of refugees, in development, in investment, and we are still waiting for the bulldozers to come to the growth of 4% - your Government is actually trying with today's anachronistic bill to earn time and also to ensure immunity for a bribery and doubling policy. You know quite well how. In any case, however, SYRIZA, representing the vast majority of the progressive pole of Greek society, will continue in and out of the House to be an impediment to the reactionary catastrophe of the current government. Simple analogue is a democratic weapon in the hands of the Greek people, strengthens its voice, strengthens control over power, and we have a duty to defend it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u704	It is called in Stepma, MP Kastoria of the New Democracy Mr.Zesis Tzikalayas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u705	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill of the Ministry of Interior entitled 'Election of Members' and not 'Election Law'. I believe, Minister, that the title is not an accident. Many times a definition, a title has its semantics. The many electoral laws that were passed in the Hellenic Republic that each day changed have tired Greek citizens. The choice of the title "Election of MPs" symbolizes for New Democracy our faith in democracy, our faith in parliamentaryism, our commitment to multi-party, pluralist, urban democracy. Our faith in a reinforced analogue system is not our position yesterday, it was our firmly political viewpoint. Because in 2016 the previous government brought the previous law of mere analogy that is currently in force, it has been our central political commitment since then that when we are given the possibility of parliamentarians, we will restore a strengthened proportional system. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, on this subject you are proving yourself hypocritical over time. You had the opportunity to vote on the simple analogue in 2015, you had all the time in front of you, but despite your unacceptable policy at the time, with which we led to capital controls and the tails at ATMs, it was certain, you knew that the Greek people and eight months after the January elections would trust you again. Your President said it was a political delusion and so you assured the rulership, in the sense of power, that this power took place for you, and once you realised that because of your policy the time would come when the Greek people would put you to the opposition and even further, you wanted to create a problem in the next government of New Democracy. We believe that an electoral law must have proportionality and governance, and this law ensures both. There must be the right "chemistry" between them. The Constitution tells us that our constitution is representative. This means, above all, respecting the mandate of the voters, and the mandate of the voters is to have political stability, to have a government. Even for one vote, ladies and gentlemen, the citizen who votes when choosing a party, whether it gets 1% or 50%, wants what he votes to govern. So we must not create obstacles to govern the party that has this possibility. Of course, because we must ensure that all the trends are represented, so we have brought this electoral law that is much more proportional than the one with which we won the elections on 7 July. Why? Because with 25% and upstairs you have a seat bonus. Then you have 20% and, as other colleagues have analysed, you have to go to 40% to get the fifty bonus seats. I think this is very important, it says everything and we wanted to prevent phenomena such as 1993. Then the PASOK of 46.9%, if there was a simple analogue, he could not rule. In 2004, the New Democracy would not rule 45.4%. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll say something that'll hurt you a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u706	He's a doctor, he says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u707	In 1989 with the Koutsogiorgs Act, when New Democracy had reached percentages, it took three elections in ten months to be able to rule with a hundred fifty plus Katsiki at that time. Do you remember that? What's gonna hurt you I haven't said it yet. Our Parliamentary spokesman, well placed, said that despite the fact that you were once the party that moved between 2.5% and 4.5%, they have infiltrated within you and the fragments of the PASOK are dominant. I say the other thing, which I say in my constituency, and I say it to my colleague Mrs Tyloridou: unfortunately your central core is the old evil PASOK. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] There is the continuity of the old PASOK that is worthwhile. We are proud to have executives from the old good PASOK and have made us a big party, the 21st century. That is the way things are, ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you very much. The SYRIZA system leads to paralysis of democracy. If we had a coincidence between the self-government and the parliamentary elections, we would have tragedies with the municipalities and regions. We have prevented and corrected the situation and managed to run the municipalities and regions, ladies and gentlemen. I don't have to say any more. I think you got the messages. We want political stability, we want the country to go forward, that's what we've been doing all these months, that's what we're still doing. We brought the electoral law in good time, at the beginning of our term, in the first half of the year, as we were committed and sure that thanks to our policy and our positions and our confidence with which the Greek people surround us, at the end of the four-year period we will win the elections and the second we will ensure self-reliance again, because we will need more time to correct the bad texts in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u708	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u709	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government's legislative initiative is being discussed: 'Election of Members', a critical bill, because it concerns the rules of political game, electoral law. Once again, we are discussing a critical bill with the Prime Minister. Obviously I understand the programme and the obligations of the Prime Minister. I've been in that position for four and a half years. What I do not understand is how he may not ask for the debate to be postponed to such a draft bill, since his programme is inflexible in order to come and oppose the debate in plenary with the political leaders. Once again, however, he chooses to avoid direct controversy on a matter that he well knows that his arguments are weak and his opinion is minority in public opinion, because in all measurements of public opinion in recent years it has been recorded that the vast majority of citizens do not want electoral laws which give false majorities. The large majority of the citizens want what we call an equal vote and want to see converging programmes rather than one-party governments which, after all, have been the ones - let us not forget - led us to the crisis. However, the New Democracy, its Government and Mr Mitsotakis insist on his recipes yesterday, on the recipes that led us to the crisis, on the arrogance of the almightyness of one, which is based on complex parliamentary majorities, on an electoral system that is responsible for itself, because this logic of the almightyness of one and the efforts of the governments or the parties to ensure this almightyness. We all know the causes of the crisis, such as rushphetti, such as complexity, such as pheasantness and, above all, a system which in the end does not respect citizens. Just a few weeks ago by this Step in the debate on the bill which was voted for by a large majority, concerning the vote by the Greeks abroad, you declared, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and the Prime Minister and you personally, Mr Minister, the great importance, the great value of the vote for Greek citizens abroad. You have even refused our proposal, in order to enable all those who have Greek citizenship, regardless of how many years they have been away from Greece, to vote, but in separate regions abroad, on the grounds that this choice would make their vote at home inequality in relation to the vote domestically. So while the vote of the Greeks abroad moved your arms, the Greeks' vote on the inside seems to be how moved it is. And what are your arguments? Your arguments are the depreciation of politics and the lack of confidence in the maturity of the Greek people, but also about the maturity of the political forces, the emergence of an enormous paternalism against necessary - in my opinion - consensus and convergence. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you have only a latent assessment based on the deep arrogance and deep arrogance that has filled you with the fact that you have regained the wealthy positions of power. The latent estimate is that, after you managed and won the elections last July, based on political deception, you will be able to regain them in the next election. Of course, I do not see you as naive, so that you do not have the basic awareness and do not understand that this does not have much chance of happening if the next time is towards the end of the four-year period. Because you understand, as the saying says, that it is easy to make fun of many for a short time, a few for longer, but impossible for all for a long time, no matter how much support you have, no matter how serious a protection shield, and if you have all this time in these six months by the media. That is why our assessment is that you are rushing to change the electoral law at the beginning of your term, so that you decide to go to an early election, to come to elections soon. I would like to remind you, to remind the older people and to remind the younger people, who say, and the saying, that the last time that happened again, we had a government of the New Democracy, and indeed, a government of Mitsotakis, a memorable one. And then it turned out that anyone who tries through the electoral law to prejudge developments and, allegedly, digging the pit of his political opponents, in the end falls within and not his political opponent. We, on the other hand, do not play games in terms of principle. And we have proved that. We do not make any constitutional amendments or electoral laws based on our assessment of what is of interest to our party on a timely basis. We have changed Rule 86 on the election of the President of the Republic in order to disconnect it from the dissolution of the House, not because it has helped us, but because we thought this was the right thing to do for democracy and political life in our country. We did the same with the electoral law in 2016 that we voted for the simple analogue. Because everyone understands that it never benefits a party of power, as it is commonly said, the simple analogue. But the so-called big parties, which have serious chances and demands to claim the government election, have an interest in having an election system cut and stitched into the logic of polarising the two parties of power. We, however, have a different moral and worthy context, because we do not regard ourselves as a part, but also as a continuation of the old political system. And we will not compete with you about who took the old, the good or the bad PASOK, especially when I see that at the headquarters of the Ministries Mr. Gerapitris, Mr. Lebanon and Mr. Theodorikos sit. We won't be opposed to that. We will be opposed to our political positions. We will be opposed to our political proposals. We will be opposed - if you wish - to the way in which we have exercised - power for our initiatives on our own policies. We also want to be a body of change and not a continuity of the old political system. We want to be a body for changing and renewing the country's political life. That is why we believe deeply in the value of democracy, which must be essential for everyone. We believe deeply in the value of the vote. We trust the Greek people for their choices. The position of the Greek people, moreover, within the political system was restored by the law that we passed, Law 4406/2016, on simple analogues. And this worthwhile position on the issue - if you like - of popular sovereignty is that it does not allow us to make games and micro- budgets and purposes on these issues. Besides - I repeat - history teaches that anyone who plays such games usually accounts without the hotel owner. Because hotelier, in this case, is the Greek people themselves. And with regard to this particular case, may I, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, comment on the following: there are more reasons, in this case, for them to be foolish, not just temporary, designs and calculations. This is because even after the vote tomorrow of this law, obviously with fewer than two hundred votes, the next election, whether or not, will be on the simple analogue side. Whenever the next elections take place, either tomorrow or in the autumn, or in 2023, at the end of the year, the next election will be on the simple proportional side. And so, anyway, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the government majority, 1/3, perhaps more - than you, whenever the elections take place and whatever happens, will not be elected again in these elections. You should know that. Be aware that most of you in these designs are a disposable use. You are a single use in Mr Mitsotakis' micro-party calculations, and, as long as the weather goes, citizens understand in their daily lives that the great expectations that Mr Mitsotakis has made fraudulently falsified beforehand are misguided. I know, of course, that there will surely be some of the government who say 'do not care about you, because the next elections will not make a government, either way, and we will be back in elections again, so you, many, who will not be elected for a certain amount of time in the aftermath of the elections.' How sure you're about this? How convincing is an argument of a party that comes into an election campaign, telling its voters "do not care about these elections, we do not account for the mandate of the Greek people, we do not want a solution from the poll in front of us, we are interested in the next ones"? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I think this is perhaps an excellent argument for someone who would like to boycott an election campaign, encourage, strengthen abstention, but not for someone who wants to win an election campaign. But these elections, the next elections, whenever you decide to take place, will take place with the fair electoral system of the same vote, the electoral system of simple proportionalness, whether you like it or not, and will make new association of power. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And not to be sure at all, no one can be sure that any of these connections will not lead to a government solution. The only certainty is that this solution will not involve the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. That's for sure. After all, with your decision to vote for almost on your own - with some small support, but almost on your own - today's electoral law, you are also putting a definitive end to the communiqué on consent that you sought to set up in the previous period. Because you cannot seek consensus on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday tour. Day after day you prove that you cannot only be part of the solution for the country on the next day of the next elections, but you are already part of the problem for today, for today. With the irresponsible attitude you have taken on critical foreign policy issues and when you were opposition and today as a government, you have already caused a deep crack in the image that should have a credible Greek government abroad, and in the conditions of geopolitical instability, in critical circumstances. Greece, which has been able to find itself at the centre of international initiatives, which concern the wider region, with confidence, which has been able to show an independent dynamic multi-dimensional foreign policy in recent years, is now again a country which is struggling to express its positions at international meetings and international fora, when, of course, it manages to do so, that is, when it manages to be where it should be in order to do so and does not shine through its absence. At the same time, the forces you have created and the perceptions you have made in the election, in the critical, great, the only big thing that we left open - because we could not leave it open - the refugee, these forces are knocking on you. You were mobilizing people, citizens, the islands by saying that SYRIZA is the fault of bringing refugees to their islands. You were talking about Moria's shame when she had five thousand people, and you said that when you were elected, you would control the borders, no one would come in and fix everything. And today, Moria doesn't have five, she has twenty-five thousand. And it's not just Lesvos, it's all the other islands. In short, you've been messing with the refugee in six months. You changed five different ministers responsible, after you abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy. The country with the greatest flows in refugees and immigrants does not have the Ministry of Migration Policy, because the Prime Minister and the Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis, were also coming out, and what did he say to us? That it is dysfunctional, that it is useless, that no European country has any. They lied to the Greek people, obviously. And you come back six months later to re-approve. So who can trust you with this attitude? Ask the citizens in Lesvos, Samos, Chios, Leros, for these six months, who have been experimenting and who have changed the ministers responsible, what has happened there, if it has improved, as you have promised or worsened. You saw them on the street yesterday. We didn't mobilize them. We're not behind these mobilizations. Your inability has mobilized them. And the lies you told them in the election, with which you will of course now be confronted. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We see the same in the economy as the most famous middle class. Where is the notorious 4% growth that's coming, that you were professing in the election? Where's the rainstorm of the investments? Where are the bulldozers in the Greek that would go in, my ears, in a week after your election, why was this disgusting SYRIZA supposedly delayed the investment? Where are the jobs? Business for everyone, as you were saying. Where are these jobs? Where is the increase you promised in basic wages, twice the rate of growth? Where are the most infamous reliefs for the weak and the middlemen? We've seen for the grown-ups. For the middlemen and the weak, we didn't see. Instead of reducing costs, however, we see burdens. And instead of jobs and jobs, we see massive redundancies in large business groups. For the first time, we have seen massive redundancies following the transfer to OTE, to banks and even after a long period of growing unemployment. The dividend was also significantly reduced. Go for a walk to the market and meet shopkeepers. Ask them to tell you about their turnover during the holiday season, to tell you what it was like for their shops, for their shops this year's Christmas compared to last year's. But you promised better days, not worse. A big deal about pensions, because you know what happens. The population of pensioners was bombing during the period when we were ruling, fighting and winning it, so as not to reduce pensions. The TV studios with plaques, tiles, labels explained in detail how much pensions would be reduced in each. Every retired man got a horror. Of course, they didn't decrease, they increased. Now it's become a communal orchestra for how much the pensions will grow. However, the money you give the pensions, which you have been raising for me - in the budget you voted for - is 200 million less than the total amount. Tell me how this works? Unless it's like Jesus' parable at Canaan's wedding. How can it be that 200 million less money for 2020 for pensioners and you say that you are raising pensions? Of course, there will be some increases, but these increases will still be a very small, very limited number of pensioners. It'll be 10% of retired people. That's what you're advertising for, so he feels even the guy who's not a retired for getting money. And, of course, these increases, which concern only 10%, do not concern low-retiremen, but a few pensioners in the highest grades, while 90% of the already pensioners will lose annually, mainly because of the abolition of the permanent pension - as we voted last June - of the tenth pension. You didn't like us calling her the thirteenth. It was indeed a full pension for low-pensioners, younger for middle-aged people, smaller for those who receive higher pensions. It was 820 million a year from the budget as aid to pensioners. You're cutting it. And so, 90% of pensioners, despite what you say, will see annual reductions from the abolition of the infamous thirteenth pension. In insurance, instead of maintaining the concessions introduced by the Katorugalos Act and extending them as promised, you are making increases. You move on to increases for the vast majority of free professionals. 90% of the free trades will pay 20% more contributions. With the unfair class system, and the free professional with an income of 7,000 euros will pay the same as the one who makes 70,000 euros. Is that justice? Is that the improvement you promised? At the same time, Mr. Georgiadis, the Minister for Development, said cynically, but very clearly, that, until April, you have had a chance. Then there are auctions in the first place. Of course, I wonder if this is a strategy that will make people's lives better. But in the field of education - and I would like to say a few words about that, because it has been the subject of confrontation today in the House - your concern is not that of students, students, families, but of serving interests. Inhibited, you said, finally, the start of operation in a series of schools. What you did today, however, in the vote on Article 50 of the Minister of State's draft law, Mr Kerameos, is something that really needs our attention, because you are actually opening the door to permanent recruitment to the public, to holders of private college diplomas and using this as a pretext that the European Union is supposed to be dictated. And when we asked the Minister to submit the Commission document, the letter which obliges it to make such a provision, he said that it was classified and could not submit it. You know, a problematic, a bad and bad thing is to make a mistaken legislative intervention. But second worse, it's lying. There is no classification in the document, and there is no insistence from the Commission, so that we can proceed with this arrangement. Do you know where there is perseverance? There is insistence on private colleges, a tenacity they had made lobbing in the troika to implement since 2012 - when it was implemented - and an insistence that made its second-class troika employees resist our efforts for three years to undo this arrangement. But when we came out of the memorials in August 2018, we immediately abolished this terrible arrangement, because we want every child, regardless of its financial potential, to have a right to knowledge. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you cannot, at the same time as saying that you will bring the basis of '10' to the pan-Hellenic exams, which you are reporting, leaving out of the higher education tens of thousands of young people, and at the same time that you are suspending the operation of new university schools, leaving thousands of young people out of higher education, to go ahead with a regulation that will enable those who have not even obtained examinations to be able to have an equal chance of being recruited to the public. And of course, IATAP has also denounced you, and this is a crucial issue, which will not go through this way. It is delivery in private interests, an issue which we will bring back in the next period. Let me just say one last thing: you have a feeling that security issues are doing well. I see that the Prime Minister did not even do the self-evident thing anyone else would do and we had this fiasco, not on his own responsibility, not on the Prime Minister's responsibility, obviously, perhaps not on the Prime Minister's behalf. But the Indian case was fiasco. A peaceful citizen had the misfortune to be a middlemanship with an occupancy of an abandoned building. And when it was a business, police forces were invaded in his house, he was beaten up, they didn't ask him for permission to enter, nor in the presence of a prosecutor. The self-evident thing that one could expect is for the Prime Minister and the Minister to come out and say "I'm sorry, wrong". They didn't. Why? Because you feel like it's a matter on which you have communication superiority. Your logic is short-sighted, you know. When someone walks into politics, only seeing the measurement bars, without a political sensor, is wrong. Nor, therefore, are you effective because, at the same time as you are doing business with drumcrossing, cameras and drones, to cover an operation involving dozens of policemen and within, but there are also other ways of getting out of business, as if we were going to catch up with Yagula - the same time that you are doing communication-type operations in Koukaki or Exarchia or wherever the issue of security is not going well at all, because crime is perpetrating, mafias acting undisturbed, drug trafficking is happening in Exarches and not only there, and the results of small, middle and heavy crime are now very difficult in the last six months. These, ladies and gentlemen, are some key areas that I have tried to speed up your ineffective policy, for which we have warned the Greek people in time. But I am coming back to finish my position on the draft law. So, in the face of all this, from the big issues to the small ones, from the crucial foreign policy issues, the refugee to the issues of the security of everyday life, in the face of all these critical issues, you are today giving the reintroduction of the enhanced proportionality, which is putting the risk of intensity back on track. We believe that the country's problem, and especially yours, is not the risk of insolence, but the lack of credibility you have. The credibility deficit! You have only been able to show this great lack of credibility within six months, which obviously cannot be covered by any electoral system. And make one last observation. You also have an anti-constitutional arrangement, in our view, which undermines the possibility of forming political partnerships, in the form of pre-election coalitions, since in practice you exclude political coalitions from access to the bonus. You say that in order for a political bonus coalition to take place, the average of the sum of forces to exceed the percentage of the first party to come down autonomously. And if, as you say, pluralism in the House prevents provision being made beforehand who could be government partners, then you should know that the people can be unpredictable and not predictable, as you like to call it. Because the people perceive and seek a fair electoral system. With your insistence, therefore, on the abolition of the mere analogous, and indeed on the argument of the inability of a priori to programming, you are actually revealing your embarrassment, embarrassing at the lack of a political space to which, or with which, of course, you might be converging, beyond the right-wing or extreme-formations, those that already exist near you or those that may arise in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we remain consistent. The simple analogue system is the system that is currently in force and will apply to the next electoral procedure, is an acquis and is the legacy of the left-wing government. I assure you and remember it, he came to stay in the country's political life. Fair expression of the political forces and convergence through the formation of the co-operation governments will renew and revive the political system, will add another institutional guarantee to the necessary control of the governments, which will be carried out by comparing their actions with the programming agreement of the converging parties, as is the case in most European countries. And it is an institutional guarantee that, in addition, can break the mechanisms of artificial reproduction of power and transaction systems with all due interests, because it will renew the power and criticism of both the media and the press, which is a huge issue of democracy there. It will give the support not for contracts of conflict with interests, as is done today, but for contracts of trust with citizens, contracts of trust with the people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The simple analogue, which will be applied in the next elections, therefore, I believe, can be at the same time - and I am closing with this - and the legend of the programme of the progressive forces of the Left, as well as all democratic and progressive forces, which, in my view, can, despite their adequate differences, overcome conservative policies, go beyond the government of the right of Mr Mitsotakis and form a government progressively, with a view to the progressive exit from the new major deadlocks in which the current government leads the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u710	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u711	Before I give the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u712	Mr. President, Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u713	Before giving the floor to Mr Gerapetti, Minister of State, to reply on behalf of the Government, I would like to make a brief statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-three students and students and two teachers from the High School of Fairy Thesprotia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Gerapititi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u714	Mr President, another manifestation of genuinely consultative attitudes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u715	Like Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u716	Mr President, today we are discussing the question of introducing the new electoral system. This is an important piece of legislation on which the New Democracy Parliamentary Group has based its proclamation programme on what we will do when we come to power. And that is what we are honouring today, as we honour in any case all the options that come to this House. Because the consistency, ladies and gentlemen, is something that distinguishes the present government. What we are discussing is whether we have a system that ensures a better future or whether we have a system that will create conditions of stagnation and regression. It is a joy and honour to speak after the Chief of Officerial Opposition, at least now absent, but it is a relatively easy task. Because I know in advance that his reference will be 90% on matters not related to the bill - such as insurance, labour, education, economy, defence, security - and 20% on theoretical deductions for this bill, which he has obviously not studied. No mention has been made of this bill at all, and when a reference was made to Article 86 for the election of the President of the Republic, which is Article 32. But the issues that have to do with the simple analogy have already been overcome. Simple proportionally is an issue that has almost been overshadowed because it produces only severely negative consequences for most of the world's states. In fact, simply proportional is today more than a theoretical fossil. It is very little for the European countries and countries in the world to adopt it and it is based on a completely different model of governance. Why? Because what we call a figurative representative, namely that whatever the percentage in the elections is, it is also the percentage of seats that receives every coalition or party, that is actually the guarantee that any electoral system will fail. The seasons supported by John Stewart Mill or by Alexander Papanastassiou in Greece have passed. Why? It is not just government stability, ladies and gentlemen. That's self-evident. A country needs government stability in particular at times that are extremely critical to the civilization. What is important, too, is that there should also be a change in power. I do not demand that the Chief of Staff Responsibility is aware of the political and constitutional history of the place, but at least this House should be informed of what the consequences were for the implementation of the mere analogous to Greece and the world, when we had a mere analogue, five times before the Migration and where the elections that took place in Greece led to the system of simple proportional. In a total weakness, civil wars, in a post-war climate, in a war. So it's good to know history, even world history. Let us remember that the simple analogue for the first time introduced the Baimar Constitution in 1919, and from that we were led, from the simple analogue of Baimer, to the elections in Germany in 1933, where with a limited percentage and precisely because of the inability to gather a strong government pole, Hitler legally takes the order to lead where he is going to lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u717	You're in danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u718	But in other insanity, you know, simple analogue leads. The simple analogue means that there is a situation in which we have standing blocs, where the political opposition is essentially zeroed. You will perhaps not know - I would simply remind you - that from 1917 to 1992 in the Netherlands there was a practical government coalition in the Netherlands. There was no opposition for almost sixty-five years. You understand what the consequence of this is. Even - the mere proportional system, which was the dominant system in post-war Italy, has led to the phenomena we all know in the huge Italian recession and the impossibility of forming governments in multiple elections, and has led to the phenomenon - because this is the remnant of mere analogy - in the well-known Government of Giovanni Spadolini in 1981 to 3%. His party with 3%, because there was not a strong government majority, came to rule. But today, you will allow me to say that we also have a picture of hypocrisy. I would like you to forgive me for the expression, but it is a political hypocrisy, the attitude of the Officerate, for three reasons: The first is that the Civic Opposition comes up, with the majority system being introduced into the House today, while the opposition itself took advantage of it twice to be in power. Of course, the first time he took advantage of it unintentionally, but he took advantage of it. Remember the attitude of Officer Response to the question of the election of the President of the Republic that caused the January 2015 elections. The second time, in the September 2015 elections, he seized the majority system voluntarily. He knew there was a majority system and he still did not take any care of it at all. And I would ask you, for reasons relating to everyone's dignity, not to mention the fact that he had other more serious issues to resolve then the government's majority. From January to September 2015, the SYRIZA government passed seventeen laws, including laws dealing with issuing payment orders in commercial transactions, maintaining the Greek Sugar Industry, by force on the field, but did not find the time to introduce a simple analogue system. So I would ask you very much, when we talk about political openness, that we should not be misled as we already have this political history. Second impression of this type of political hypocrisy. We're saying we want the simple analogue why? In order to have genuinely printed-out through parties coalitions, there should in fact be more parties in a political government alliance. This is beyond any intrinsic political problems, in the case of SYRIZA, I think it involves an element of historical self-criticism. What was the political alliance of 2015 to 2019? Can we call it back? For the first time in the Greek political history of postpopulation, at least we had a government coalition, which totalled the two power parties with less than 40%. There was no more government after the Transmigration, which had less than 40% cumulative, only the SYRIZA and ANEL government. And that's not all. What is true of the logic of the quality of the increased that the governments consider to be having cooperation? It's actually two things. Firstly, to have the electorate aware in advance that this type of cooperation will take place, and secondly, after the elections there will be a clear, pictured convergence for the people to know how the government will account for. What did we actually have here? We had a very cynical, humiliating consensus. Why? Because in the January 2015 elections no one knew from the electorate that we would end up in this incomprehensible alliance between the two heirly political spaces and then there was only one informal agreement to smash the memorials with an article and a law. And in the September 2015 elections we knew, of course, that we would have this heirly alliance, but we did not know what the programming reason was. Where would this deal be based? What would he do? What would happen to nationals? What would happen to the economy, security and education, given the fact that the two parties were quite different in terms of their main programming reason? It was about a flat consensus, so political hypocrisy that cannot stand today. And last, third evidence of hypocrisy on behalf of Officer Opposition. What really means the application of the mere analogous, for which we are so cut? It requires a genuine interparliamentary spirit and political openness. Is it an interparliamentary spirit, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Opposition, the polarist rhetoric 'inappropriate designs, incompetent government, liars and extreme right' heard by the previous one in this Step? In that sense, will we come to a mere analogy? With polarization and aggressive rhetoric, it is impossible to operate absolutely simply proportionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u719	Say some more of the characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u720	"Unbelievable designs, incompetent government, liars, co-operation with right-wing and far-rights." They're just expressions, which have been captured by the Chief of Officerial Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u721	Mr. Mitsotakis was saying this about us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u722	You know, what applies is as follows. I have heard several times from the Chief of Officerial Responsibility talking about popular sovereignty, that simply proportionality reflects popular sovereignty. You will allow me, with all due respect, to say that it is a people's domination of a card, because it leads to the coup d'état of heterogeneous partners it is not a portrayal of popular sovereignty. The people did not want a coexistence between SYRIZA and ANEL. This was your opportunistic approach to taking over power. And to say this and apologise to the President. We bring this law which is much more proportional than the law of 2004 and 2008, respecting precisely what the current Prime Minister had declared in his programme speech, namely that he will bring an electoral system that will consent to the country's proportional representation and the need for governance. The bonus escalation is precisely this printing. It is a serious sign of political openness that this is coming before you today while the parliamentary majority could have chosen a electoral system that was more appropriate and of course would have no problem with constitutionality. The Chief of Officer Reconciliation has mentioned the problems of constitutionality. I imagine those who are aware of the case law of the Supreme Special Court which has characterised the bonus of fifty seats as constitutional. And I'm closing. The Chief of Officer's Representation said that in the productive causes of majority will it is to bring the new electoral law in order to move to elections soon, which we will lose whenever they are held, and that is why we are delusional as to the deposit of this bill. You'll allow me to say that he judges the Chief of Officer Counterfeit himself the odds. We with the institutions won't play. In six months' time, in order to have a political cleansing of the internal party opposition, we will not be doing so. We respect the institutions, and we will prove it, and I hope and I am sure that it will be one of the unspeakable predictions of the Chief of Officer's Response. And to close with this, we all realise that the President, the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation in the marriage in Cana, where, of course, we had the turn of water into wine, probably by implying the multiplication of the breads and fish, which took place in the wilderness rather than in Cana. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The desert which I very much fear you will be forced to suffer for the entire four years, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u723	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u724	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Janakopoulos, who, after the president of his party, does not have the full time of protology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u725	I would like three minutes, Mr President, from my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u726	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u727	I'm just gonna need three minutes. I'm gonna make my main speech tomorrow. But I feel obliged to answer or rather to point out two points which Mr Gerapetti, in my opinion, did not hesitate to bring into this debate within his business ass, and which, in the opinion of the House, neither he nor the House nor his Government, are honoured. First and foremost great slipping, which I invite him to withdraw. He did not hesitate to try to defend the majority systems or systems of reinforced proportional responsibility for simply analogously the fact that Adolf Hitler was appointed in 1933 as Chancellor of Germany, that is to say, to assign responsibility for the rise of the Nazi phenomenon to the mere analogue. This is an unacceptable statement, which I urge you to withdraw for reasons of historical openness and historical accuracy. Do you want to tell me, Minister, that it was not because of the Versailles Treaty, that it was not because of the great compensation, it was not the tails of World War I, it was not the anti-Semitism, it was not the rise of fascism throughout Europe, it was not a total political, social and ideological climate for Hitler's rise to power, but it was the simple analogue? This is historic, political and ideological misery, which I invite you to withdraw immediately. Secondly, the Minister did not hesitate to deliver the Civil War to Greece in a mere proportional manner. Another disastrous historical inaccuracy, which no longer belongs to the sphere of historical review, but belongs to the sphere of a paradoxical right-wing rhetoric, which Mr Gerapetti is unfortunately adopting in the context of the defence of his Government and his Prime Minister. In conclusion, for the alleged hypocrisy of SYRIZA in 2015, where he did not have time to legislate on the simple analogue, listen, Prime Ministers - because I hear it from many Members of the House - we had too much work in 2015 to remove the sabotage, the undermining that came from you and your prolongation, your choice to support those extreme European forces that imposed financial suffocation in the country in the first half of 2015. So we have had an extremely difficult task of rejecting your undermining policy, not against the SYRIZA government, because we are well aware of the left-hand plan. The left-hand plan, however, which you have produced and implemented, was not against the SYRIZA. It was, in fact, a move and a strategic plan against the interests of the citizens and the social majority. So, yes, we did very well in 2015 and we removed that dangerous to democracy, this dangerous to the citizens, and we did not even give him half the inflatable space to breathe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u728	Mr Gerapetti will answer and then the parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, Mr Pafilis, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Gerapitris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u729	Just a second, Mr President. I won't be long. I would like to point out that the traditional intake for the freedom of expression of Mr Janakopoulos has had another expression in Parliament. I, of course, did not mention the fact that all this was caused because of the mere analogy. I gave you the ontological environment in which it happened and it is well known what has happened. The 'abnormalities', Mr Janakopoulou, is not to be heard in this Chamber, because I have not given any designation. The characterizations are for television only. If you want television, there are fortunately because of the pluralism that freedom of expression allows, which you probably do not express...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u730	Mr. Gerapititi, I will choose the way I answer. Don't give up on that. You say misery and rinse out Nazism!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u731	There you can express it as you wish, but in this Parliament, Mr Janakopoulos, everyone is free to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u732	Everyone's free to say that you rinseed the Nazis and it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u733	You must understand that at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u734	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u735	The freedom of expression and the independence of the MP are constitutional...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u736	Mr. Janakopoulou, you have been reverentially listened to by Mr. Gerapetti. He heard you reverently, didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u737	So we understand the consultation, so we'll go into a simple analogue, so we'll work with the athletes and the non-sports...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u738	But we don't want to work with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u739	...with those who refer to wars, civils, all these things and those, of course, who don't have time because of the misery of this party, which an order set back so that the country won't collapse because of you. They put their backs on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u740	You're saying jokes! You destroyed the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u741	They put back when you brought the third, unnecessarily memorial, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u742	The House has the floor, Mr Pális.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u743	We've heard infinitely amazingly in here and from both of them. We've heard incredible. The most incredible thing we have heard, Mr Gerapetti - and it is not just yours, but all of New Democracy - is what you, supposedly, support democracy. What democracy? It's a dictatorship. The dictatorship of the bourgeoisie and we call it raw, literally. What democracy? Fifty bonus seats? Is that a democracy? That's a robbery. It's theft of the will of the Greek people to make what? Steady governments? Where are they gonna do what? They're going to break the people and keep putting blackmail dilemmas on them. I'm not just saying it for you. I'm watching the conversation and we've come out of our clothes. There are also limits to arguments, but this is also called a little dismantling. Otherwise my vote will count and yours will count. I didn't get it. Why? What do you have most? I mean elections as they do, and I mean for all parties. We have also listened unbelievably - and tomorrow the Secretary-General of our party - of Mr Tsipras will reply that he allegedly brought the economic crisis and bankruptcy into the electoral systems. Mercy! You've become a washing machine for American imperialism. You have said that the crisis, which was a carabinatist capitalist crisis, is due to lamonia - lamonia all over the world - due to one and the other. Lamoyo is all capitalism in that sense. You acquitted the system, you won a movement that got up against the crisis at that time. Big masses came out on the street, and what did you do to them? You have literally sold them, you told them that for what happened was the PASOK and the New Democracy, and not the system, and when we come in and do government, they will change everything and bring the third memorandum. We've heard all this. But, Mr Gerapetti, I did not hear you because I was on the way, but I was informed. I'm guessing you're not one of those people you're impenetrable. Saying that the simple analogue brought Vimari and Vaimari brought...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u744	No, Vaimari brought the simple analogue. He was in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u745	Wait a minute. Watch and correct. The fact that Vaimari brought the simple analogue and the simple analogue brought Hitler, is that how am I supposed to say it? - Unbelievable. Let me tell you who brought Hitler out and disprove it. How did Hitler get to power? There was a meeting of all the major companies, recorded...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u746	That's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u747	Wait. Don't be in a hurry. Listen to the end. The "SIEMENS", "BOSCH", "THYSSENKRUP" and all the others decided to hand over power to the fascist neo-nazi party, which the Nazi fascist party is genuine and not an evil child of capitalism, and the next day or after two - three days there was a meeting of the bankers who decided and went to Hindenburg and told him - all these are historically registered - to hand over power to Hitler. Why did they do that? What for? Because they believed that neonaziism could then wage war for German imperialism and capitalism to recover the lost land from World War I. That is the historical truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u748	Yeah, it's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u749	So where does Vaimari fit? To tell the other historical truth. The Communist Party of Germany then proposed an anti-fascist coalition to the Social Democratic Party, which rejected this proposal and which is why Hitler came out as it came out. That wasn't the reason. It was more. They'd find other tricks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u750	That's not questionable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u751	This is the historical reality and because we live in times of historical review and a slump in history by the European Union and all these forces today, who are - temporarily we say - in power, so I would say that at least the majority of Greek MEPs have held a different attitude for reasons that may be explained. So if you didn't say that, go out and say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u752	Obviously. I'm done. I'm just saying that in the times we live, you can't beat indifferently, not you, I say in general. For example, Mr. Janakopoulos well said about fascism, but Mr. Tsipras said that Mr. Trump is devilishly good, the one who supported Mr. Klux Klan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u753	Isn't that so, Mr. Scandalides, or am I lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u754	What am I? Historic?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u755	Because I see you're smiling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u756	I've always watched you, you know that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u757	So these are very serious issues, particularly today that the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay proposes, in essence, an acquittal of the fascist, criminal, murdering organization of the Golden Dawn, who are saying today 'we will return', using the motto of Goebbels. So when we talk about fascism, I say again, it is a genuine child of capitalism. When it cannot with urban democracy, it resorts to the dictatorship. When he cannot with the dictatorship, he resorts more openly to fascism. Fascism is a form of power of monopolies, of those who possess wealth throughout mankind. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u758	Mr President, I would like the floor because it was referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u759	Of course, it's understandable. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u760	Thank you very much for your intervention, because it is precisely historical events, with only two observations. I absolutely agree. My reference was made to the historical context and not to the responsibility. Obviously, it's not the simple analogue. The simple analogue was placed in this environment why? Because in 1929 in the elections we have the Nazi structure of 3% and in the 1933 elections we have it with 34%. The simple analogue functioned within this framework of strengthening the parties that were inhabited by the slippers and was able to recover the environment you said. And, historically, I should like to add another dimension, which is precisely the fact of the suffocating conditions imposed and which were considered to be outside German logic, und Deutsch. Otherwise, you're obviously historically right. Thanks and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u761	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u762	The bourgeois dictatorship gives you the word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u763	The bourgeois dictatorship gives the floor to one point. But what does he do in practice? Can I just tell you? You say the people are sovereign. Isn't that what you're all saying? Let us assume, then, that fifteen parties get from 3%. How much is it? It's 45%. And you go to government, you, SYRIZA or that party, with 25%. Why? Do you not respect the popular verdict? Since the people's verdict says I don't want to give you 30% and 40% and 51% properly. Tell me when you ruled with 51%? And secondly - I will say again, our rapporteur has said so - SYRIZA, who is being cut for simple analogue and popular sovereignty, regardless of what he has done, has brought a law that says that to make a trade union decision at the factory or elsewhere for strike, 50% plus 1 of the majority of workers are needed. For a strike! If he doesn't have it, it's illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u764	The workers, not the members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u765	I'm telling the workers. You brought it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u766	No, the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u767	Anyway, don't go crazy. SYRIZA brought him the law. And that is when Mr. Georgiadis, for example, had come out on the tiles "hové, I'm with SYRIZA", "bravo, you finally brought a good law". So tell us, you, who are both a prominent legal officer and I do not ignore it, how can you ask 50% plus 1 employee, the majority, and govern 23%? 23% is not in total voters? Shall I say 22%? You want me to say 39%? Not to go to that logic. How can you rule a country as a whole and the worker decide to claim rights to want 50% plus 1? What's that called? It's not called a dictatorship?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u768	Come on. The Members must also speak. Mr. Papadimitriou Charalambos is called in Stepma from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u769	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is, I've forgotten what I wanted to say. And I'm not in the way of history's lessons, because thanks to history, I'm here, and it's confirmed that I'm right here. Because history reading tells a lot about how people would like to convert a system by eating it from within. No one really understood this. I understand the difficulty of the major opposition colleagues to explain it, because what we were talking about when we were young, and we had our minds where you might have them when you were young, you were free, it was that the first thing that a left-wing government would do is to vote on the simple analogue. No one knew why it wasn't. As for the argument Mr Janakopoulos has said - and others have said so, a colleague very nice, very stylish, very unscrupulously, I would say - that it was busy for that government to save the country, to find money for the funds, it was at the end of March, if I remember well, that you had an agreement with the European Union, with the European Commission, and everything could go to honey - milk, even from that moment on. I still don't understand why you did the elections in September 2015 with the same system, but for another reason. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you were particularly keen to expel my dear friend Lafazani and that concerned you more than anything else. I believe it was fraudulent that while the groups that respected and their responsibilities, if you wish, which had been in favour of the country and which hurt so much, were slaughtered, I would say by making use of the opportunities given to them to get the country back on track, because you did not say, because Mr Tsipras did not say in September 2015, come and help, since a few days earlier thanks to the votes of those two major parties - formerly large, perhaps for some, but certainly thanks to them - you were able to get the approval and get the money to be saved as government at that time. So the calculation behind simple and inappropriate, as we said analogue, is not inappropriate at all. It is not inappropriate for a very simple reason. There's nothing to say that I'm going to rule with the results that my poll will have if you're not ready to admit a simple thing. I agree with the Chief of Officer Response. The next elections will take place on a simple analogue basis. So Mr Tsipras will be asked to answer a simple question at that time. Although it is still not the first party, it accepts and commits - would it say so, I imagine, if that were something like this here - that the one who comes out first will be Prime Minister? One by hand. But that's not what it says. He says that from now on I am warning you that the result of the polls will not be respected. The first, second, third, third, that the people will be voting for will try and try to change it. So you want a system and a procedure that allows political toys. And that is, unfortunately, after all those - I myself have been among them - who have supported the inappropriate analogy, but have understood, over time, that a country which is not well governed cannot have a good electoral system. I would therefore like to ask you, and I ask you, to come back to the path of logic again, in full understanding of the reasons why you voted for this system, so that you can now say what Mr Tsipras said that the next elections will be held on the simple analogue side. I would also like to ask you to consider this scenario. Speaking of which, I can say something like that. Don't be so sure that the elections will take place after one another. It can also be tested for the result of the poll. Can the people, if they understand how the system works, give you your position again to the other parties theirs. The main feature that an electoral system must have is precisely that, that the citizen understands that if he or she votes, he or she will achieve a certain result, he or she will know at first, which government will be created, to know to whom he will blame when elections are reinstated. Whilst I think Mr Gerapetti quite rightly, a mere analogue, which merely gives an ideological order, I am left to vote for him, I am right to vote for the other, and from there the leaderships of the parties are closed in a room and in the corridors the power is negotiated, it is far from the democratic result that we all want to achieve. I therefore think that the law that we will be voting on shortly favours net accounts, and at the moment this is the important one. Mostly, however, it favours good governance. Besides, if you see what good governance is, you will see that the eight basic principles of the electoral system do not exist. There are other very important things that do affect the democratic process. There are issues relating to the functioning of society every day. Democracy has been judged everywhere and we have said many of these places. In any case, he is not here my dear colleague, to remind him that in 1937 - he was December and apparently he was very cold - comrade Stalin was urgently called upon to develop his plans at that time. And he said how good, how democratic the electoral system with which the 1937 elections would become, when he had completely denounced the leadership of the Soviet Union by the military leaders, by the political leaders, of everything. You know what he said? He said it's the world's most democratic system, it's the most democratic one ever invented. It was the system, of course, of the simple majority with a candidate approved by the party. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We can say a lot in this Chamber, but it remains the fact that just now - as I have been informed - the legal service of the German Parliament has found the Turkish- Libyan pact illegal, the islands have a continental shelf and an EEZ, the delimitation of the zones can only be done after consultation with Greece and Cyprus. And when all these things happen, we need a strong, strong government and a equally strong opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u770	Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u771	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after what has been said in the Chamber last hour, I am quite sure that we have a culture of understanding and cooperation which is the same as that of some countries north of Europe and we can move quickly towards such a nice cooperation. Unfortunately, however, reality is different. I want to start by saying that I am very pleased, because this law largely amends the previous law that we have experienced all these years in electoral procedures and that in some of its provisions has been unfair. And that is what a colleague, who was elected in January 2015 by a very large majority in his prefecture, in Corfu, in September 2015, has had to give my seat - even though the New Democracy in Corfu took 22% - to another party, and indeed the Golden Dawn has a seat of 6%. This was a distortion of the electoral law, which also happened with Euripides Stylianides in Rhodope and Xanthi with Alekos Co. This law brought to us here by the Government does, in many instances, correct such a distortion. And I must stress that right from the outset. Looking at what is happening in the large countries, such as the G7, for example, to most European countries, we find that there is, in fact, no proportional effect in European countries. Even in Italy - which we had this phenomenon about every nine to ten months - changed their electoral system, and at the moment the first party or the combination of parties takes 55% of the seats, whatever percentage they have. Why did the Italians do this? In order for there to be rulership, there to be stability. Many countries in Europe use a system, so-called D'Hondt. It is from Belgium Victor D'Hondt, who in 1880 invented this system, which appears to be proportionate, but essentially presupposes the first party. It is no coincidence, therefore, that most countries such as Spain, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Estonia, the United Kingdom and many others are using these systems. Why? In order to be able to be practicable in these countries. Poland is even using a system which, in order for a party to enter the House, needs to exceed 7%. Imagine what would happen if that was the case here. So, with these considerations, I would like to stress that in order for a government - when elected - to implement a programme, it must and must have a comfortable parliamentary majority. You'll tell me that the previous governments were co-operation governments. I will remember the unbelievable scenes of the previous government, which have been the cooperation between Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. Let me remind you that other policy followed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other policy followed the Ministry of National Defence. Let me remind you that in the last few months of your term of office you have forced Members of other parties to sign a joint letter that their vote was at the disposal of Mr Tsipras in order to govern a few more months. Let me remind you even before that the first government of cooperation, which was Mr Samaras, Mr Venizelos and Mr Kouvelis, lasted only a year, because there were difficulties, there were different - if you want - starting points for specific issues, so that the Samara-Venizelos coexistence remains only a year later. And I tell you that - because I was in the political system - the place was not easily governed. The common component was not given. So I think a strong parliamentary majority from a party can make a difference. After all, what happened in this country, all the major decisions taken by the post-Multipulation were always taken by governments with a strong parliamentary majority. Especially this law that we are voting on tomorrow is a law that has proportionate characteristics. A party that takes less than 25% must cooperate with other parties - if it is the first party of course - in order to be governed. So, yes, it can help create a culture of cooperation that we right now do not have. So I think, Minister, that this bill improves the distortions of previous electoral law and I think it offers and does not remove. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u772	Mr Loverdos John from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u773	Thank you, Mr President. After we heard a lot of and great about Hitler in this Chamber, the Hall was empty. Let's go get some rest after we solved Hitler's unscrupulous problem. Anyway, history is very important and it teaches us a lot. And I, when I go up to this Step - because I know from history - feel awe even if the House is empty. For from this Step spoke to the top figures of Greek political life, from Eleftherios Venizelos, George Papandreou, Alexandros Papagos, Plastiras, until Constantine Karamanlis, Andreas Papandreou, Elios, Konstantinos Mitsotakis and many others that I cannot report to them now, because there are too many. But would all these people - think about it - in this position and have this story, whether there was a simple analogue or should they form a co-operation government? Could the country be governed over the past few years? I will give you two characteristic examples. In 1958, in order to learn a story because we have forgotten it, a party of Officerial Opposition came out, as you know, which was behind the JRC, nine years after the end of the civil war. Do you think with a simple analogue that could form a government of consensus between ERA and ESA in 1958? Of course not. What would happen? Most likely, there would be a tough dictatorship at that time or even a new civilization. In 1963 George Papandreou, who was the founder of the Centre and the father of the founder of PASOK, held an election that he won. In these elections, although he received a majority, he did not get enough and did a new election in February 1964, which he received by a very large majority, as you will remember. In 1964 the Union of Centres had taken - I do not now remember the exact number - a very large majority of Members. But because it wasn't a group party, it wasn't a solid party, after a while, when the crisis broke out, what happened? The Association of Centre was dissolved, the known stories of 1965, which led to the 1967 dictatorship. So the existence of governmentality in a country creates better conditions for the operation of this country and the functioning of the democratic constitution. Are you going to tell me that you could say that about the post-mortem? In Transmigration, of course, things are different. There is not the same tension and the same question and undermining of the democratic constitution that existed before 1967, indeed. I will give you two examples again. In 1989, with a simple analogue form, Constantine Mitsotakis and the New Democracy had to make three retaliatory elections to win a zero majority, which eventually collapsed before the government finished its work. What would the country be like if the Mitsotakis government had completed its term of office in 1994, which then expired? And can I tell you more than that, not just on the one hand? In 2000 he won Simite's PASOK with one unit of difference. Could he, uh, work together, if there was a mere analogy, Simitis, the patriarch of corruption, as New Democracy called him, with Karamanlis? There was no such possibility. Where would the country be led in 2000 in a mere proportional manner? That's very recently it's not something that's happened before. Greece needs a reinforced analogue, not only because we need to have a government, but because we need, above all, people who also operate public administration. Let's not hide behind our finger. Public administration is a mess in Greece. The institutions are not strong and on the contrary we need governments. See that in the oldest parliamentary democracy of world history, which is England, starting from 1215 with Magna Carta and actually starting at William of Orange centuries before Enlightenment, there we have a system that is the most majority there is, it is one-sided with a majority. And, however, England is the most powerful democracy that has worked since then without any problem. Instead of countries that have strong institutions, but have simple analogues, like Belgium, we have a year to have government. You know that? A year has been completed by Belgium without a government. And there are strong institutions, public administration works, because they have tradition. In Italy, which were simply proportional, they have again changed it without strong governments, despite the fact that they have the tradition of the public administration of the city-state in force in the Renaissance. We do not know that or we do not want to know about it and we insist on an obsolete logic that 'you are not bored, the simple analogue will now come. With simple analogues, we will solve the problem of popular sovereignty." By the way, Mr. Paphis isn't here, but he talked to us a lot about Hitler. He told us about Golden Dawn. With simple analogy, if you were here, Mr. Pafile, won't the Golden Dawn enter the House, which you so abominate? Anyway. It would be in the House today the Golden Dawn with nine Members with the system of mere analogy. Have you realised that? So all this stuff, why am I saying it, friends and friends? Because in this country we have to be responsible. We face many dangers and national ones, as my friend Babis Papadimitriou said before, and internally. The system doesn't work. We need the immediate intervention of the Minister from above and of the Minister's office to work. With just analogy, we wouldn't have a government. And just to remind me of something: Whenever we have had to make a co-operation government, what have the smaller parties who have been involved in a co-operation government in the past decade? PASOK from a government party is almost gone. I'm sorry, Mrs. Litikoli, but that's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u774	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u775	The ANELs and the other parties that participated in the co-operation governments are no longer there. Even the Potami and Leventis, who did not participate in a government, were disfellowshipped because their great parties were snatching their MPs. What simple analogue are you telling me? Who will participate in a mere analogous government? What party? Will PASOK come to work with either New Democracy or SYRIZA to completely disappear to the next House? Let's be realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u776	Mr Angelos Tsigris has the floor from the New Democracy. Please keep the seven-minute period.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u777	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if the nation follows what the great Greek poet, our national poet, has said, that is to say, as a national what is true, then we have to look for the basic and fundamental truths concerning the holding of elections in our country. I shall therefore report to you some specific truths, which I will prove. Truly the first: Simple analogue creates lawlessness. How does that prove? If we look at all the last election campaigns, then the two major parties had to alleviate, collide, in any other case elections would have to be held again. For example in the 2019 elections New Democracy took 39.85% and 50 percent of eight seats. If the simple analogue was the case, the New Democracy would have taken a hundred seventeen seats. Where would he find the others? He probably had to go with SYRIZA. Did the majority of the Greek people want this? I guess not. But let's go to the 2015 elections to see things on the other hand. SYRIZA won the elections at 35.46% and took a hundred forty-five seats. The simple analogue wouldn't take a hundred or ten. So he should find another government partner and not ANEL. Obviously the New Democracy, which she didn't want, to collide. So what would we have? Constantly repeated elections, which took place in 1989, which happened in 2012 and I believe that they did not like anyone, but especially the taxpayer Greeks who were called upon to pay the cost of election campaigns. Truth Two: Insolence is ultimately nationally harmful, not to say dangerous. So listen to your arguments. A election campaign costs 100m euros. With this amount, if we make second elections, it means that the cost of the elections is more than doubled. Imagine becoming third or even quarters. And, of course, how many months do it take to go to the next election campaign? We will have a new electoral period, we will have new conflicts, new political conflicts. Until then Greece will not be governed, international risks will be cared for at a geopolitical juncture and when Greece needs strong governments. Really third. The international example is catalytic. I will take the example of neighbouring Italy, not for any other reason, but because it is a neighbouring state, with which we have a lot in common, and therefore we can see through the failed simple analogue in Italy, what can happen in Greece as well. The statistics show that in Italy the average time of the allied conflicts in the simple analogous period lasted for about ten months. I mean, every ten months we had a new government. Do we want that in our country? Today Italy has changed its electoral law. The first party takes 55% of the seats, that is, it became what our people say "were burned in shell and blowing yogurt". Should we do it, too? I'm really fourth. It turned out to be the failure of mere analogy, and in the case of the self-government elections. A strong example of Thessaloniki. The mayor voted for 14%. If the current government hadn't changed the law, basically the Municipality of Thessaloniki, like dozens of other municipalities in the country, would have stayed uncivilized. So, if these are the truths, the national debt of a patriotic government that loves the place and not its political survival, what is it? To make the national right, to give stability and balance to the place. Ladies and gentlemen, the law that we have all read to us is an honest law, because it comes at the beginning of the four-year period. It has not been seven months since the early mandate of the government. It's a law of law, because it doesn't blame anyone. By 25% the seats are divided in proportion to all parties. It's a law beneficial to our place, because it creates stability. He's a law effective, because he doesn't allow insolence, let alone today that things are so sensitive in our wider neighborhood. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is a law that is balanced. In other words, one might say that he is a majority proportional and at the same time proportional majority. That takes art to achieve it. At the same time, one could paraphrase this as follows: it is proportionally reinforced but also strengthened proportionally. In other words, this is a balanced bill that the country needs today. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the bill proposed by the government on the country's new electoral map.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u778	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, let me understand why I understand the Members who come and ask, addressing the Bureau, as far as the list is concerned at least for tonight's sitting. On the basis of the calculation and the time to close this evening's sitting, we shall reach the number 58 with Mr Ioannis Burnos last speaker. All previous speakers will be invited to speak at the Step. Mr. Dionysius has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u779	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in implementing its most important pre-election commitment, the government is now moving on to abolishing the system of simple analogy and introducing a new, fair and representative electoral law. The simple analogue introduced by the previous government, since it had, of course, been guaranteed to be elected by the 50 seats bonus system, was only a de facto fair and representative system. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be clear. You have brought the simple analogue with the sole aim of preventing any possible formation of a powered government from New Democracy, the percentages of which have already exceeded those of SYRIZA since then. But this work has been played several times. Recall that in 1985 PASOK received 45.83% and sixty-one seats. When Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou then saw that he was losing, he brought the simple analogue. So while in 1990 the New Democracy took 46.89%, it had only a hundred fifty seats. Is SYRIZA now bringing in simple analogues is it supposed for reasons of principle? Oh, no. Because if he brought the simple proportional principle back then in the space where he saw ruling, that he had the majority, he would say before 2015 that a proposal should be put in place to come to the House for a simple analogue. Why didn't you bring her before the September 2015 elections? Because then he was helping you because you had to rule. You did the same with the self-government elections. Because you wouldn't elect a mayor of yours, you thought of making a mess of local government with the simple analogue to have powerless mayors and paralytic situations so that you could blackmail. The simple analogue for you was nothing but a tool to remain in power or even to ensure that it cannot be taken by the first party in question. You want to convince the world that your intention was to introduce a fair and unadulterated electoral system. Your actions, however, betray you and prove to the Greek people that your left account is nothing but the cloak behind which you hide your desire for authority. The electoral system should ensure two things, representativeness and governance. These criteria are indeed interlinked, because they are representative of a electoral system which ensures that a country can be governed. It is, moreover, the citizens and only those who are legitimate to determine by their vote whether the government will be one-party or co-operation government. The simple analogue, ladies and gentlemen, as SYRIZA has presented it, effectively destroys representativeness, creating paralytic situations, as I said before. The opposition, of course, argues that this system favours the creation of a culture of consensus governments. But you are forgetting, gentlemen, that the consensual governments also presuppose closer opposition lines and, indeed, towards the common good. But you, as a opposition to the majority of the issues, disagree to disagree. In fact, many times, you are building dissent only to give the impression that you are exercising opposition. Let us not forget the hydrocarbons you have not voted on and let us not forget that you have applied the rate to colleges and now you are disagreeing. In this context, I do not think that especially SYRIZA can speak seriously of a culture of wider cooperation and consensus governments, especially if we remember that in 2012 at a national critical time you clearly refused to cooperate with any party. SYRIZA, in fact, forgets his heartbreaking and against many of his abominations with the party of Independent Greeks. You are forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, that your coexistence with the ANELs has never been built on the foundations of programmatic convergences and broad consensus. The core of this coexistence was your thirst for power at all costs. In support of my words, I would like to remind the Greek Parliament at the time of the 2015 referendum, when half of SYRIZA Members left the party, but the "antimony" ANELs remained strong supporters. Let us not talk, of course, about the moments of insanity that the whole country has experienced in the process of voting for the Ambassadors' Agreement. We have all watched the ANEL MPs disagree and yet vote in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, I will stay in the words of your Member. SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence was a "marriage" of mutual interest. Therefore, do not have any illusions about supposedly culture of conflicts and planning convergences. The government brings an electoral law that is representative and law that allows the country to rule properly. The new electoral law does not give a bonus of seats to the first party that gathered less than 25%, whereas provision is made for the distribution of the premium to take place in staggered shape and even has a ceiling of fifty seats. I would also like to stress that the time that the New Democracy Government is introducing to Parliament the new electoral law is very important. It is important to see that the electoral law comes in an election-neutral period, which confirms that there is absolutely no appropriateness on the part of the government. Also, the government within its overall development plan seeks to send an early message to the international community and to the markets that political stability has now been restored to our country and that is why our progress from now on will only be upward. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill seeks to modernise the electoral process by means of provisions above all functional, which aim to strengthen governance, but also to strengthen and restore the credibility of our political system which has been irreversibly affected during the years of the crisis. The submission of the electoral law by the government is an act of political solvency and honesty to the entire Greek people. Both in terms of the time when the bill is submitted and its content, it is clear that the government's concern is to complete the institutional arrangements that will ensure the necessary political stability in our country as soon as possible. It makes it necessary, in my opinion, to vote for a electoral law which, among other things, ensures the country's right to fair and representative governance, which does not allow for opportunityal or even contemporary party connections to govern this place for the sole purpose of exercising power. Finally, this is an electoral system characterised by respect for the crisis of Greek citizens and which is in the interests of the people's mandate and democracy which we all represent, providing the self-evident opportunity for the Greek people to elect self-powered governments. The overall insecurity climate created by the opportunistic and undermining policies of the SYRIZA government with the adoption of transactions without principles should be overturned, taking a major step towards ensuring the country's government's stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u780	Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u781	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have seen from the government majority and from the government in its efforts to support the law it has put forward has led to the adoption of unspeakable and dangerous arguments, such as those which have been heard before that Nazism in Germany and Hitler has been brought up because there was a mere analogue. From Mr Gerapetiti's answer, I realized that he regretted it. Despite high tones, he was quite clumsy in his argument. This has led you to saying funny things. You force our government because the first seven months of government in 2015 did not bring the law for simple proportionally. Would you vote for him? It's important that you tell us that. Would you vote for him then and did not vote for him in 2016? So you are telling us at a time when there was a storm of extreme events, of dense political events, which were other priorities, and while the issue of mere analogy you considered it, as it now turns out, top of the political system - and it is - and you think it divides, you tell us why we did not choose within the country in the first seven months of 2015 to bring an issue that would create an extra divisive situation between the government and the opposition. Let's just say we've brought it. Do you know what would happen now? You would not have a powerful government - that was not heard here - because I imagine that the placement of the parties would be the same as the one that existed in 2016. It took a hundred and seventy-nine votes, the simple analogue. Up - down would get a hundred seventy-nine and in 2015, so the 2016 elections would be with the previous electoral system, SYRIZA would win in September 2015 for the second time, and now the elections would be on a simple analogue basis. This is where I want you! So what do you think? Let go of the funny arguments. You are also invoking the example of self-government. Watch out now. You come and mention the most extreme case, the case of Thessaloniki. You want 14% to get two-thirds of the seats on the city council. You call this democracy or try to continue a dominance-centric model opaque? I stress this, because self-government historically, on the basis of the compositions of the municipal councils, in terms of public resources and self-government resources, has been opaque and you know that, but that is what you want. So, you are disturbed by real consents. However, in the past few days, you have been talking about oaths of faith in consensus. You told us to follow the example of the Greeks' vote abroad. You are really coming here with an old-fashioned perception of turning us back into the one-party perceptions, which have troubled the place and despite all the powerful mono-group governments we have not been able to avoid the social and political bankruptcy of these self-government governments, which have been changing for forty years and have been responsible for the management of the place. You come here hypocritically to talk about the need for consensus in general. I think that the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulas, is right, which says that at the end consensus is a sweet call. There's also a corresponding trailer on a news show. He has said it 'in the air'. It seems to be a hypocrisy for you. So you choose, against the real dilemma that is strong, stable, social majority, to tell us that you want broken majority voting on the basis of a deformative system. This one-party concept, however, does not only stop in the way parliamentary correlations are formed. It goes further to the one-party concept of state management, because your prolongation, the "blue" party and the "green" party before 2010 had a real estate relationship with the State. The "Armesan" used it to set up client networks to achieve very high rates in the then consensual bias of the past, unprecedented for European data. So why don't you talk about the Greek falsification of the unresolved and established for more than 40 years of bi-communism, which has led to this unprecedented, deep economic and social crisis of 2010? We had strong governments. They have not succeeded, because the question of cooperation is not only an issue of the electoral system. It's a matter of having real schedules. To say things with their name, consensus must be "false" in the respective territory of policies and conscientiousness. That's where there's scope. No consensus can be claimed, when you come these days and "explode" one by one of the conquests of the workers, the ones that we intercepted from the vicious circle of memorials. There can be no consensus on the redundancies that you make easier and have already taken the opportunity of Piraeus Bank or OTE. There can be no consensus on the omission of the Labour Inspectorate. So there will be a vertical confrontation up to the end and you need to understand it. From there, ladies and gentlemen, you are leaking that you have captured the intelligent plan of the double elections. So you underestimate the notion of popular vote? That's the deposition of a regularity. So you're telling us that you don't care if people will vote against you, if they don't make the choice to support your party, but you're going to make a trick. That's a good idea for democracy, for the institutions of you - supposedly - the defenders of democracy. So let Mr. Gerapetti leave the screams about the right of expression which is enshrined here. Here's the right to expression! He made a false parallel. It's not in the media. There is no right of expression there. There, there are your friends, the oligarchs, who have supported you and supported you. Of course, you're returning them, through the laws, what they provide you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have entered 2020. The honeymoon has passed. You will be surprised by the maturity of the afflicted Greek people. If you continue on this road, you will find yourself in very difficult and difficult conditions. Because the lie finally has short feet. We'll be here and I'll see you around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u782	Mr Ioannis Ragussis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u783	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor at this very important meeting, because it is of particular importance, that is, the electoral law. I took the floor further because I also considered my own obligation, in this procedure, to table a point of view, which I would like to see recorded in order to stay. But before that, because the Chief of Staff, the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, has just opened a very serious issue, I would like to say that there is indeed this reasonable question: why are you now bringing electoral law? More specifically, why are you now bringing an electoral law that you know can't raise two hundred votes? Therefore, it cannot be applied from the next elections. So in this sense, you do not bring him to clean up the political horizon in the face of the forthcoming elections, whenever they are. This electoral law, which will be passed tomorrow, will be implemented by the next elections. So what are you doing? Do you clear the horizon of the next elections? Oh, no. Do what Mr Tsipras has said, namely, you are actually preparing the ground to take place in early elections. And indeed, you are pressing in that direction. And you're pressing two factors. One factor is the collapse of the expectations you had created in the election, and you know that it is a matter of time that this collapse of expectations turns you extremely negatively. And secondly, you are pressing because you really want to take even harder and anti-grassroots measures, particularly against workers, which you are committed to, where you know very well that you are committed to the oligarchic centres, inside and outside the country, which you are not currently dared. Just as Mr. Skourletis reminded us a moment ago, you are starting to show your teeth. Your responsibility with what you are bringing to the House, in my opinion, is of historic importance. In fact, I would say that it is really from a point of view and then, literally, incomprehensible that there should be a debate at this sitting on what happened in the Chilean or pre-Wilhelm German, what happened in the country's civilisation, what happened in Greece over the past few years and not a debate on the major one. What is the major, dear and dear colleagues? The major thing is that the country went from 1974 to 2009 with bonus-based systems. And in 2009, the country went bankrupt. And now, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis brings back the bonus that played a decisive systemic role to bankrupt the country. It's not like the reality of the German era, before Hitler. This is not the case anyway, when the 1985 Act, 1989, 1990, was passed in 2015. But is that the big one? Major isn't that. The major thing is that the country went bankrupt with bonuses and Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his government reset it. And yes, the bonus has played a decisive role. Because there is not only electoral law. It's not just the provisions. Not only are there predictions, how many seats you get based on how many percentages. There's something more important in electoral law. It is the engineering of electoral laws, the engineering of the electoral system, of every election system. The bonus mechanic ejects the parties into demolition. The parties who claim for one vote to pass through hell in heaven are receptive and tolerable to all demands made to them by the election, much more to their leaders, who one by one vote will become Prime Minister and the other who will lose one vote will go home to the resigning party because he has been defeated. You are once again putting the country, the party system, in the relationship between the political system and the Greek people, precisely the driving force that if it has an engineering and if the political system is extinguished, it is again on the dark side of the post-multiple system, which has failed us. This is a huge historical responsibility, especially in a society without strong institutions and in a state without rules or stable rules. Indeed, what you choose is not self-powered governments. Oh, no. You select the governance model of the governments of a united social minority. Because you say that a government with 35%, 36%, 37% for and 65%, 66%, 67% against it will be able to govern the country. Will he be able to rule the country? You resurrect the dark side of Metapolistism and restore to Greece just those systemic mechanisms that led to bankruptcy. In this sense, you are a returner in the past. Finally, you're in the way to get the country ahead. That proves it. I would like to make three brief points. This famous provision on which we raised the issue of unconstitutionality is the provision of logic Vorides. Go now and bring a provision where, as Janakopoulos told you, with a numerical example that I heard, you institutionalise the possibility that there might be an election coalition in Greece that would get 60% and cannot govern, because the bonus will take its party 30%. And you're - I'm sorry to say it, I'm not saying it insulting - political and institutionally so foolish that you really think there is a coalition that will get 60%, you give the bonus to a party, to your party, which will get 31% and stand by your government? Will it stand one day, one week, one month, and will it not collapse at the expense of the popular reactions that will rise from a 60% dynamism that will not just appear in the polls, but will it have been recorded in the polls? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Previously, what do you say with the double elections that you accompanied them immediately with the announcement of the electoral law? You didn't just say you were bringing election law. You said we'd go into a double election. You know what you said? Leave us the Civic Opposition. As far as the smaller parties in opposition are concerned, in fact, you have in the worst way disapproved and even offended the least possible cooperation with them. You told them 'we do not want you' in advance and by definition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u784	Mr. Ragossi, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u785	I shall end in a few seconds, Mr President. I could say, at this point, especially for the Change Movement, that some of us, who had started talking for years about progressive cooperation with SYRIZA, have been disapproved and some, like me, have shown us the door of exit, may now feel justified. But I won't say that. I will say once again that now, because the next elections will be held anyway with the simple analogue, it is time for historical responsibilities now and for the Change Movement as a whole, but also for all those powers that exist within the Change Movement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u786	Finish, Mr. Ragossi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u787	I shall conclude, Mr President, in seconds. I mean it. It is time for historical responsibility for all forces to take a stand, to stand against the prospect of progressive governance. Because here now the responsibility is very great, it is historic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u788	Mrs Zetta Makrei has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u789	Thank you, Mr President. I listened with caution, Mr Ragosi, and I would not answer you if you did not call us all politically foolish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u790	I said I don't want to offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u791	Allow me. And I think I'd be literally foolish if I didn't remind you that you participated in governments that had been elected and governed by this electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis through its legislative work shows its honesty and political credibility, primarily to those citizens who honoured it by their vote, but also to Greek society in general. It shows the new model of governance by a responsible political authority in order to regain citizens' confidence in the political system. Within the first six months of New Democracy's governance, in a year of electoral neutrality, in order to disconnect it from any suspicion of electoral feasibility or surprise, the commitment of Mr.Mitsotakis to draft a bill regulating the conditions of electoral competition is made. This draft law by the Ministry of Interior, for which congratulations are due to the relevant Minister, Mr. Theodorikos, and to the present Deputy Minister, Mr. Livanios, modernises the electoral legislation established by the two laws of Mr.Scandalidis and Mr.Pavlopoulou, with functional provisions such as that which properly and correctly combine the popular will with the electoral force. At the same time, the new legislative initiative strengthens the great challenge and calls for the governance and shields the country in order to have political stability, necessary conditions that have been perceived since the time bomb left behind by the SYRIZA - Independent Greek Government, this bomb of the implementation of the simple analogy in the recent municipal elections in May 2019. We've all tasted her results. The phenomenon is unprecedented that two thirds of the mayors - and not only of Thessaloniki, as Mr Skourletis falsely and inaccurately said - and half of the districts in the government do not have a majority, that they cannot command, as in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, not be able to take decisions, such as for the HYTA of the Municipality of Physics. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time such as that which we are now experiencing, we are faced with a series of extremely serious risks and challenges from our neighbours by the east, which we are finally trying to find our stepping-stone through a series of political, economic and social reforms, after the end of the long and painful ten-year monumental period and which we are trying to balance in a ten-year global environment because of our geostrategic position between the East and the West, so at that time the issue of our country's governance cannot be an opportunityal and timely one, and much more challenging one, when there are party formations whose existence and sustainability will be the sole aim of exercising power over a short period of time. Neither can the country afford to be inseparable and to be dragged into constant and repeated elections. Let's not go far. Just two decades back. Remember what happened when we experienced adventure with the election law of Chohatzopoulos in 1989. Police. It took three election campaigns to create a fragile New Democracy government with a hundred and fifty one of the Members of Parliament, one of whom borrower. Let us not forget that at that time the New Democracy took 48% of the votes and could not form a strong government majority. Let us remember other examples, not far from us. What about the mere analogy of our neighbour Italy, which was the great fan of this system? In the end our neighbors Italians renounced her because in sixty - four years they had sixty - three governments. We must not forget the case of Belgium, which, over two hundred and fifty-five days, could not form a government. Obviously there are other examples of this, such as those of Spain, Israel and Germany, which also took many weeks to agree the two major parties to form a government. In order to make the path of mere analogy more understandable, one deserves to read the recent and excellent article by Andreas Drymiotis in "Kathemerini" on 5 January 2020, entitled "The elections in Britain from another perspective", which, on the basis of the recent elections in Great Britain, makes a comparative analysis of two electoral systems, the current hard majority system and the hypothetical scenario of the implementation of the simple proportional system. As you know, the territory of Great Britain is divided into six hundred and fifty single-bedded regions. Any party majority in the region elects its MP. In the recent elections, Boris Johnson became the great triumphant, destroying Jeremy Corbin and taking 43.6%, i.e. three hundred sixty-five seats, compared with 32.2%, that is, two hundred three seats on his opponent. So let us see, basically, what would happen if simple and euphemistically inappropriate proportions were applied. Boris Johnson, a genuine expressionor of Brexit's integration, for which the British people gave him a comfortable majority to move forward, could not bring it to fruition. Conservatives should find another party in order to form a government together. But all the other parties are against Brexit and no one would cooperate with them. Moreover, the remaining three parties could form a government and call a new referendum on Brexit, that is, an absolute distortion of the will of the majority of the British. Let us not hide behind our finger, ladies and gentlemen. With electoral systems such as what the government proposes, but less proportionately, all parties in the country ruled on the whole ideological spectrum of the country since post-Civilisation. By such a law, Prime Ministers George Papandreou were elected from PASOK, Alexis Tsipras from SYRIZA, Antonis Samaras and Kyriakos Mitsotakis from New Democracy. Such electoral laws did not prevent the existence of governments of cooperation, such as SYRIZA with the Independent Greeks of Mr Kammenos and the tripartite government first with Prime Minister Samaras in collaboration with PASOK and DIMAR. The basic principles of the electoral system, as introduced in the bill under consideration, ensure a proportional distribution of seats, if the first party collects a percentage of the valid ballots of less than 25%. So, just proportionally up to 25%, no premium for the party that does not attract a higher percentage. With twenty-seat seats, the party that brings together exactly 25% is premiumd. Scale premium of one seat for each 0.5%. The total number of the maximum premium is the number of fifty seats. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Our government with this electoral law is moving on to an act of responsibility for Greek voters and the political system and will be judged positively by the Greek people when the time comes. This initiative confirms the constant effort to converge, cooperate and achieve the maximum possible consensus. Psychology and the good climate in the economy must not be disturbed by successive elections. Our national issues require strong government rather than insolence. The parties must understand it and assume their responsibilities. At the end of the day, the only thing you can blame us for is that we will find it difficult to form a government more than if we were to maintain the rules of the current electoral law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u792	Mr Chryssomalis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u793	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and especially of the Opposition Officer, why since this morning so much glimpse of the draft law that has been presented concerning the electoral law? What's with the request for unconstitutionality? Is that something you didn't know that we believe in the enhanced analogue? The nagging comes from this. You have led to a political deadlock, because you see that, apart from the economic measures we take, you are improving the lives of our fellow citizens and you are necessarily dragging and voting, you are dragging and you are voting for other policies that you have not wanted. For example, the vote of the judges or the election for the President of the Republic. We saw from your communication how petty you had to consent. In the same logic, electoral law is something society wants at the moment. He wants stable governments, he wants to get rid of the ghost of government. Your ideas won't let him vote. You're trapped again and you're using excuses that don't stand anywhere to avoid voting. For example, I have heard an argument that we want a strengthened analogue because as a New Democracy we are not able to make co-operation governments. Who is unable to make cooperation governments and lead the place forward, ask your partner, Mr. Kouvelis, and the then DMAR, who shook the country into the air, bringing the "first time left" with ANELs in power and four and a half years we saw what the Greek people lived. As for the argument that we are now preparing for double elections, I do not want you to stress. The elections will take place at the end of the four-year period. They will be double if you do not take responsibility for this bill and vote in favour of it by over 100 Members. Then you will say "I wish Mitsotakis had made it then, that we had lost only ten units". That's what's gonna happen. We'll be right here. In any case, Mr. Tsipras has fallen outside. Don't worry, she'll fall into it. We, once again consistent, amazes us positively and honour the confidence shown by the majority of the Greek people. This is because we are not working on the electoral law, but we are bringing it into the first half of the government, and not two - three years later, cut and sewn to our measures, with our then popular figures, as you did. We also surprise positively and honour confidence, because we have said so in an election, we have done so immediately after-elections, once again showing consistency and honor, to the fullest extent, the truth agreement that we have made with the Greek people. We are honouring the people's confidence, because we are restoring the logic of stable governments in our country, away from micro-party games of power and feasibility, such as you, colleagues of the SYRIZA, are well aware. Toys that you yourself tried to play at the expense of the country and its effective administration, by voting for simple analogue at a time when the New Democracy was in front of the polls. And you were going to have no self-reliance so that you could play the role of regulator in a co-operation government and try to find the political immunity you asked for post-election. So, without shame you used the electoral law, trying to secure your policy tomorrow in view of your then defeat that you saw coming. And you haven't thought of the state at any time, the cost that this country will be called upon to pay. The results of the mere analogous, which you are evangelizing in the 2019 self-government elections. We saw mayors elected at great percentages and not have a majority to run their municipalities. We have seen and continued to see the inefficiency of the administration and the hostage it has created and it would be even greater for the municipalities of the country if the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not bring it as the first bill to address this inability to govern self-government. And although we have dealt with it, even today several municipalities are tempted by the problems of governance. After all, the political history of this place has taught us in a hard way the negative impact of the implementation of the simple analogy to the governance of the site. In the January 1936 elections and, of course, the first elections since World War II, March 1946 and March 1950. Of these two elections until September 1951, which were held with a reinforced analogue, do you know in these five years how many governments have there been for the country? Sixteen governments! Imagine this happening today. The ultimate mess for the place. Therefore, in a consistent and completely neutral political time, without the slightest suspicion of calculations and micro-party purposes, we are putting in the vote a new electoral law, clearly proportional to the one that took place in the 2019 elections, with only the aim and as a request for the country's effective administration, to lead to stable governments. This proposal also ensures the political stability needed by the place, in a fair and proportionate manner, both for the large parties and for the small ones. It is set at 25% for the bonus to be awarded, and this is then attributed incrementally, depending on the rate of the first party. The new law is therefore both fairer and more proportionate and respects the Greek people's vote and the mandate he gives for the governance of the place. We have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur in committee advise us that we are putting the country and the political system into adventures, talking about a alleged cybercrificy dilemma leading to petty systems. We have heard Mr Tsipras also say that this law does not respect the Greek people's vote. Are we serious? Did you respect the Greek people's vote when they provoked the referendum on 'no', you asked for 'no', you took 'no' and threw it in the bell of the unusable? You do not have the right to speak for yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u794	You're welcome. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u795	This is where you and Mr. Kammenos were confronted. Was that the respect? The first one with the last party was the people's mandate to collide?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u796	What did you vote for in the referendum?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u797	Please don't record anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u798	I voted 'yes', but the Greek people voted 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u799	Go on, Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u800	Don't be ashamed to tell the truth. The results of co-government with the ANELs have been paid for. This foreign ideological coexistence, because such governments are merely proportional. Now, it's time to prove if you're putting the country above your micro-party interest and party logic. With the vote of the new electoral law by two hundred MPs, the ghost of the rule of law will be gone definitively and irrevocably over the country and the path to the arrival of investors becomes even clearer. Here you will prove, ladies and gentlemen, in your vote, whether you are interested in your country or your party and your ideas, because the country needs forces that strongly believe in reforms, investment, work, the forces that can be perceived and support a just and truly representative electoral law that leads to political stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u801	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mrs Sofia Vulture from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u802	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what arguments the Opposition of a so-called expression of popular will may be, it will not be able to make up its treacherous purpose. Because by adopting the law on simple analogues, SYRIZA simply set up another trap for the country. The previous electoral system neither prevented SYRIZA from coming to power nor prevented the formation of a government of co-operation or prevented the entry into the House of Disputes and Diversities at any time of smaller parties. He was, however, ensuring a government. The purpose, therefore, of SYRIZA is not cooperation, because they are achieved with every electoral system. Its purpose is - and Mr Tsipras and many of you have revealed this again today - the formation of minority governments, without a statement. What you are seeking is the "democracy" of the country's political life, that is to say to win a party first, not to cooperate with him, to take the second party's mandate, to cooperate with everyone else, to offer ministries and transactions even for the country's very integrity, as is done in Spain, and finally to come first and for the other to "govern". Another veranda of this trap is the first party not to guarantee declared or co-operating with one or more parties, and then the majority to be guaranteed by the abstention of one or more parties. A lot of people talked about the past. I want to talk about the present. What's going on at the moment we're talking about in Spain? Four elections in four years' time, one year of service governments, a fall of the Sanchez government from its own partners, because of the budget vote, fragile governments based on the vote by Podemos, Catalan separatists and Basque nationalists, who are throwing them every time, Mr Burnus, who know about the outsides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u803	Don't report, Mrs. Swollen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u804	You don't know well, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u805	Don't refer to names, colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u806	They just dropped them. You don't know them better than I do. That's not the case. They just dropped them. Why then is he not a prime minister and went to elections for the fourth time if he didn't fall? He didn't like it and he left on his own? Well, at the beginning of the month Sanchez and the Podemos formed a government, without a majority, without a statement, after ensuring that thirteen Catalan MPs abstained. No tolerance vote, no abstention vote. To leave the hall the Catalans traded with Sanchez and made a promise to reopen the dialogue on the province's autonomy. Where is Spain, today we are talking? First of all, it has not voted for a budget and that is because the Sanchez partners do not agree with the budget and the European Union does not agree with the Sanchez partners. Yesterday, on 22 January, the Sanchez government announced its intention to make changes to the criminal code, amending the sentences for rebellion and attitude, on the basis of which the Catalan politicians who refused to download the separatist flags from the public buildings were condemned. In other words, if Sanchez is to be Prime Minister, Spain is in danger of staying without a budget and without Catalonia. Nice co-operation!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u807	Do we have Catalans in Greece, Mrs. Vultesis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u808	Leave it now. I give you an example. Because we don't have Catalans? They'll be found, sir. You'll bring in. You worked with the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u809	Mr Burnus, you have come to us very vividly and you are interrupting the meeting. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u810	It's a disgrace to what you're saying. Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u811	You collaborated with Golden Dawn to shoot Samara government. Yeah, yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u812	Mrs Vultesis, please do not address the Members and Mr Burnus. Continue your speech. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u813	You worked well together, and you did these. You've been working together for four years, and you didn't do their trial.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u814	You forgot Mr Baltako.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u815	Mr Burnus, you are unacceptable. You're unacceptable! You don't respect the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u816	You haven't even had their trial in four years. You looked at them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u817	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u818	No, go to me! Can you hear me? Please. Please. Rest yourself up a little while and calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u819	Please. First of all, I did not say 'let', I said 'Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u820	And you're not telling me, you don't like Spain...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u821	Mrs Vulture, please do not personally address Mr Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u822	Yes, Mr President, I am sorry. You don't like Spain because it has Catalonia. So let's go to Portugal that you like. Let's see what's going on there. In October 2015, Coliou won the election, but fell in the House within ten days when they coaled, not Catalan, but Costa's Socialists, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens. Right? Another dialectic alliance. Let's see now, all these people were voting together? Oh, no. The Communists, the Bloc of the Left and the Greens voted against the bills of support and the bills passed because the centre-right Social Democratic Party was abstaining. In other words, the others left and a majority of Costa became. After the 2019 elections, why don't you teach me about them - when Costa's socialists came first, but now, in October 2019, a majority in Parliament, Costa became - now, at the time we speak - Prime Minister on the basis of a fragile abstention, as the Left Party agreed on a permanent dialogue throughout the legislative period and voted - says - bill by bill, law by law. Here's Spain now. They have not declared themselves and have agreed to make Costa the Prime Minister a law. Did they vote? Yes, sir. They didn't vote? The law is not passed. There's no budget, the government's falling. So the rest of the four years will be over. I do not see it, however, because there will be elections again. Romania is in the same situation that the Conservative Prime Minister's minority government lasted only two months - it is not just on the one hand - and now the country is going back to early elections. Previously, Mrs. Tsipras' friend in Romania, Mrs. Dancilla, who had left other allies in the cold in the bathroom, had been the same. Nice things. So that's what you're working on. The nightmare of the future. You have set a trap in the country, and that is why Mr Tsipras has declared that there will be no double elections, because he hopes that he will be able to cooperate with anyone in this House - he said it here today - except for the New Democracy, in order to cause this trap in the country and that she will be able to complete the disaster. So you know that in this case, we will inform the people of what you want to do and the people will abolish with their vote in practice your electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u823	Thank you. Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u824	Thank you, Mr President. Let me make a little clear introductory words and comment on the previous speaker: Nurse for the country and for each country it is every government that does not respect the popular will and verdict. We are talking about the later electoral law and we have received as data, we have swallowed some assumptions. You are also trying to build on them a suit of democratic legitimacy on the spiral of a possible election rate that you consider to be, of course, subject to your government not being too ticked. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2012 an important part of the citizens has been systematically absent from the polls and, unfortunately, this has been an important part of young people. We have never really asked ourselves in this Chamber, there have been insufficient specific discussions on the causes of the large abstention rates. And if we don't talk about the causes, we won't be able to find any response. Do you really think that the enhanced analogue, the majority electoral system you want to reintroduce, any bonus, any number of seats in the first party, even if the first party has a difference of 0.5% from the second, is a fair electoral system? Is it an election system that will bring 44% of those who abstained in the last elections from the polls? On the contrary, we believe that the only strong and functional democracy is participatory democracy. And participatory democracy is only ensured through the electoral system of simple proportionality. Simple analogues can ensure more active participation, as it gives the same value to each vote. You cannot invoke the principle of equal treatment for a card. In the debate on the vote of the homosexuals you did very well and you invoked it. Today the principle of voting is whatever party each and every citizen votes to have the same vote. Do you know what else? You are forgetting the fact that in the consciousness of a large majority of the citizens, the 30, the forty, the fifty seats are fully accounted for. We are talking about fifty parliamentary seats which are not based on the voting power. Obviously, you are planning all this because your calculations are not coming out, because the next elections will be conducted simply proportionally and you want to win the aftermath again with self-reliance. But this scenario belongs to your imagination and that's where it will remain. So you constantly and systematically work on the legislation for your party benefit. You are undermining the importance of the vote of each vote. On the contrary, as I said, participatory democracy, which is the only system that can celebrate its confirmation whenever elections are held. What's your plan for electoral law? There's not even a suspicion of government co-operation. However, on the basis of the latest polls, the majority of society wants to cooperate. And, yes, colleagues and colleagues of the New Democracy, and the governments of cooperation can be stable governments and can guarantee governance, for example in Germany, which has been a country that has been a member of a culture of cooperation for decades. And you should consider and consider all of us whether it is precisely these cooperation governments that lead to a country's economic blossom and soundness. Of course your draft law does not seek politically and morally optimal. What are you doing? You are mixing a tested recipe, a recipe that speaks of one-party governments, but which, in fact, just these one-party governments have had the steering wheel of the country for forty years and have led the country to bankruptcy and memorials. But you are not counting, ladies and gentlemen, a strong, but at the same time unstable factor, which no electoral law can predict, and that is no more than the popular will. Put it very well in your mind: The next elections will take place against your plans with the simple analogue and the people will highlight the new strong government of progressive co-operation. It is what the country, the people of our country and, above all, democracy needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u825	The next speaker is Mr Constantine Katsafandos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u826	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid temptation not to respond to the colleague who has just come down from the Step that with this delegated electoral system you have twice taken the power. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. These fifty seats you should not have taken, as you say, have brought you to power and you have been able to make a government with Mr Kammenos, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make a historical retrogression since 1926, when George Condylis first brought the simple analogue to Greece until 1988, which was something of a mere analogue, the system that Mr Koutsogiorgas tried and introduced. This electoral law will have to see what consequences and results it has had at the place to talk about Greek reality. So what has resulted in political liquidity, parliamentary anomaly, powerlessness, too many governments up and down to less than six, seven months. This is the historical retrospective of what has to do with the simple analogue for our country. But let us look at it, because we must not always do as if we were to find out what is happening in the other countries, what is happening in the United Kingdom, what is happening in Germany, what is happening in France, what is happening in Italy, which was a mere analogous, what is happening even in Japan, and let us see that all these countries have majority systems, electoral systems. And some North European countries, which have a simple analogue, should be understood in addition to the culture of cooperation, which exists - let this go, put it aside - they have a different way of working. Can I tell you about the Länder that exist in Germany and what kind of entity is this all? May I tell you about local government what power it has in those countries and what power it has in our country? So you understand that when the vast majority of countries have a majority system they have a reason to do so. And apparently if SYRIZA, who twice took over power, took power with the previous election system by taking the fifty bonus seats and when he saw that he would lose the election...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u827	Will he lose?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u828	Of course, as you lost them. Didn't you lose them? So when he saw that he was going to lose the election, he changed the electoral system and put him in a wrapping of the idea that we were always in favour of mere analogous, but you are a card in favour of mere analogy. You are in favour of a simple analogue, ladies and gentlemen, and because I was in the previous parliamentary term, I must remind you of all these tragic events that were taking place in order to be able to maintain authority, so that you can remain in the government on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement. Remember what was going on, what was happening, how did you get the Members of the Independent Greeks to make them Ministers within one night, how were they changing parliamentary groups overnight, how did you bring an amendment that the Member of Parliament would not have to resign and to descend as a Member of Parliament to remain a specific colleague? Under these conditions, do you want there to be consultation and cooperation? Are these the conditions you think they can take the country forward? And what are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? At a time when the country is trying to stand on its feet and enter a normality and a time when there are many serious national risks. That's the reality. And what do you want? You are asking that you have a share in the power to lead us into lawlessness. You say that is the New Democracy argument all over the world. I analyzed it to you a moment ago. Simple analogues drive most of the time into the political system, and that is why the rest of the countries do not use it. Why is it going to be different in Greece? Do you think we can work together easily? You're accusing us of bringing it now. It is a bill which, once again, shows the consistency that this party and this government have with what they had said to the Greek people in the run-up to elections and implements post-elections. Was that a hidden agenda? Not all Greek citizens knew about it. Didn't we say we were going to bring back, change the simple analogue? And be careful, because we recognized that the previous system was problematic, where in the May 2012 elections we received the 50 seats with 19% of what we say? We say it will be from 25% and more so that there can be proportionality and that the majority will be respected unless you consider, as happened in 1990 with Constantine Mitsotakis to receive 48%, that another party, MP of another party, had to come, with 48%. How far does that look!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u829	Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u830	Samaras who? Learn a little story. Samaras in 1990?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u831	Colleague, please don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u832	Consent and consensus this government shows in practice, but not with agreements under the table. We voted yesterday on the new President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u833	We are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u834	Did you just vote for it, Mr. Comrade? No, you said that if we did not vote for Paulopoulos, the outgoing President of the Republic, we would not vote for anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u835	Don't have a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u836	That's the reality. You accused that the New Democracy is using the President's institution and is trying to work this whole process to come to agreements with the Change Movement. All this has been demolished and forced to vote for another person. In its government, the New Democracy has how many extra-parliamentarians now have ministers and State Secretarys, who are not part of the narrow limits of our party, but are people capable and worthy to offer the place? Therefore, cooperation is not blackmailing. Co-operation and cooperation is under a specific framework and always has as its purpose and purpose the progress of the place. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because times are difficult and because there are too many dangers not only economic but also national ones, as I said before, what we must do is not let the country fall into government. And remember something - I say, Mr President - and I close - that all Greek citizens - there is no Greek citizen when he goes on the day of the elections that he does not think of - in the parliamentary elections they vote for government and we give them this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u837	Mrs Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u838	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for a few months now the Greek people have been following an attack by the Government, the New Democracy, from the media-friendly to the government, a coordinated attack on the mere analogue, which is basically nothing but an attack on democracy, an attack on the Greek people's vote, an attack on the opinion of each Greek and Greek citizen. We are even listening here today to the temple of democracy, such as the House, unfortunately, and also to extreme views, which have come from a minister to say that the mere proportion of wars is due. All these things I think should be condemned. The new year began with many expectations for the Greek people, with great expectations because our country is no longer in memorials, the SYRIZA government took the country out of the memorials where stable governments of decades with their policies had put it and now expects to face the future, but a future that is far from these will and the promises of the New Democracy that publishes return to normality. Unfortunately, however, the return to normality refers more to a return to maintenance. Constitutional Reviews are certainly important stations for the Parliamentary Republic, but this was not the case in the recent Review, where its character reflects the majority of the New Democracy's idea of democracy, narrating the whole process and making it brutal. In organising a democratic state, it is the electoral system that is of the utmost importance, as the main way of organising and exercising political power. In the forty-five years of post-population seven different electoral systems were implemented, and six of them were based on the structure of the enhanced analogy of 1958. Of course, all these laws did not provide for the strengthening of proportionality, but for strengthening the first party, usually putting an obstacle to the rest. So in our country the electoral system has so far been unfair and inequality has been clear to smaller parties. SYRIZA brought the simple analogue, which is now law. But you come now and you want to change it. Why? Because, as all the conservative governments have tried, others in a raw, other more discreet way to check the electoral law for good reasons, so do you. At a time when we are living at a pan-European level in multi-party governments, since the problems go beyond the narrow party frameworks, you continue the traditional right-wing recipe that relives the first post-cultural years, with a collapsing system that you propose, overhauling votes and seats to prolong your fragile and law-abiding power. We have heard a great deal today in Parliament and recently and political geography by a Member of the New Democracy for Spain, for Portugal. You are disturbed by these examples, but you have to make it a decision that the future there leads. With your draft law on the electoral system, even regulation enters into this bill on bonuses that do not apply to party coalitions. All this because? Just because you're scared. Afraid, because with the constant anti-grassroots policies that you are actually implementing, you will shrink and you will be away from the world. The simple analogue we have proposed and, as I said before, it is also a state law and the next elections are to be held in this system, it is an electoral system that aims to create a progressive government, with scheduling agreements and convergences. Our firm position, therefore, on the simple analogue, apart from micro-economic and micro-group interests, will always lead to the next elections in New Democracy where it really deserves opposition. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Our political system in conditions of simple proportionality, ladies and gentlemen, and especially of the New Democracy, where I am addressing it, also requires a surplus of cultural and political maturity. It limits the rhetoric of small parties, the smallest and the largest. And the question is: Will you, in practice, prove mature and worthy of the circumstances in this new era, or will you face everything, as you have been suffering for years, decades, opportunity, with micro-partyism, which is constantly characterising you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u839	Good night, too. A few and good ones are left. We're taking it hard because I found out there's a Morpheus coming in. We shouldn't have any episodes! Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u840	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only grief and disappointment that the government intends to return through the bill under discussion to the practices of circumventing the will of citizens and undermining all democratic principles for the election of Members of this Parliament. In this way, every step forwards and discharges from the polluting electoral models are undermining the efforts made in previous years to increase the level of representation of citizens. All democratic rights of society are being destroyed to choose representatives without alterations and any desire to respect the spirit of the Constitution to equalise the vote of all Greek citizens. Installation of the simple analogue system is not a mere obsession, which comes to serve certain short-term purposes. The simple analogue is that electoral model that characterizes the mature political systems that do not engrave behind the trenches of populism and micropoliticalism. It is the system whose gradual incorporation will reap the state mechanism from the general functioning of the political system and the alterations in power that it involves through confidence in the institutions and their uninterrupted functioning. Through this we approach the vision of institutions, an effective state mechanism, a democracy not directly or indirectly, only democracy, democracy according to every letter of its definition. The above-mentioned tripartite characterises states which we all invoke in this Chamber as an example, often glorifying European values, but also Western civilization. The simple analogue is the system which can lead to the demand, the broad socio-political consensus, the consensus which today is more than ever required to meet the major challenges facing our country. During SYRIZA's governance period institutional initiatives were taken, such as the extension of democratic procedures to highlight the state institutions by reducing the electoral age limit to seventeen years, as well as the fragmentation of the major electoral districts. As a Professional Opposition now, SYRIZA continues to operate towards the understanding and insight of the rule of law, as it did in the case of the vote on the results of a broad consensus on a timely issue of the Hellenism of Dispersion, for which yesterday's political system never gave persuasive answers. The attitude of national responsibility on our part was also verified at yesterday's historic meeting, where a leading government in SYRIZA, which was the first woman President of the Council of State, became a large majority President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the government not only despises these conciliation steps on our part, but closes eyes before another historic opportunity to upgrade the political system and the institutions in public awareness. At the same time, it ignores the fact that most countries in the world - in fact, eighty-six - are the ones adopting the simple analogue. This also arises from the ACE website, which is a network for the recording of the electoral systems of each country around the world. The proportional system has also been chosen for the European Union elections. Obviously, all of this isn't telling you. I just wonder if, Minister, after the vote on today's bill, you will also be going to Brussels to suggest that you change the system of holding the elections at European level. On the opposite now, only sixty-four countries have the so-called majority vote system as a system. One of these countries is Great Britain, in which there are so many - dense elections and the results of this process are all visible and well-known. There, however, there are concerns, struggles, which are not expressed through SYRIZA's party papers, but through the 'INDEPENDENT', who made an agonizing appeal to a headline of his, which had the following title: 'Thousands of voters have been systematically ignored in these elections. We desperately need simple analogues. However, today the Greek Government chooses the opposite route, even to refer in advance to double elections in order to get rid of the burdens of democracy. It is an insult and shame to underestimate citizens' light in this way, as if it were the vote of the citizens, a disturbing parentheses or a necessary evil, as if it were not the highest right for the citizens, but rather it was an accident, the consequences of which each government came to correct later. It is clear that the New Democracy does not want the composition and the governments of cooperation, but prefers the governments of a social majority. Do you really prefer this Greece? Do you prefer Greece of bankruptcy, Greece of post-government, one-party governments, political, economic and moral decency? Your story has gone beyond you, you and all your methods, which only aim to keep you in power, you and your fear of all the democratic ones. Democracy, however, should be aware, gentlemen, that it only scares those who are trying to undermine it, and that is something that should concern you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u841	And we thank Mr. Sarakiotis. We continue with two MPs from Heraklion. The first is Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides to take the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u842	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to discuss how Members are elected, how we are elected. It is an issue that has been dealt with many times by the National Representation, as well as by society. However, Minister, I think that the fact that Greece has repeatedly dealt with the issue of electoral law does not justify a one-week consultation period. Below. In this debate today many issues have been raised. Regardless of the fact of the integrated or non-expected debate - I believe that it was not complete - and, respectively, of its seriousness, I distinguish someone who emerged from the debate. There have been issues of democracy, issues of representativeness and equal treatment for citizens, issues of governance and stable governments, issues of political cooperation. So, in this debate too, let me submit to the time available to me some of my views. Firstly, I believe that the first, the first, the lady, the basic principle of Members' election is respect for the equality of citizens. I am, ladies and gentlemen, from people - and I am fortunately not the only one - who I believe that nothing can go forward without the agreement of the majority of society. Watch out, not in the sense of form. Society can be with you from combat support to positive neutrality. I'm talking about the position, about moving into positions expressing the majority of society. Therefore, the aim of each leadership, all collectiveness, from the cultural club or the union to the union, up to the local government, or if you want it in the case of the central state, so the aim of leadership and central authority, is to try to shocks and consensus, so that the voters reflect the majority of the social group, if we talk about a union or a majority of society, if we talk about the government. The equal treatment of our fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, therefore leads to the electoral system of mere analogy, the percentage of each political force in the people corresponds to the percentage of seats that it has in Parliament. On the opposite side of this proposal, governance is being projected. Uh, okay, and we are democrats and we are progressive or to say just as the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy said, "we are democrats and progressives, but we must also have a strong government." The enemies of mere analogy hide the lack of respect for the equality of citizens behind the paradigm of governmentality. They use the curtain of rulership to hide their will for powerful monopartite governments. And, as our people say, 'a bad 10' s fall.' When one-party governments manifest themselves as a purpose, we sanctified the means, the distortion of the people's mandate. This is the evil followed by many others. That is why the frustration of the people's mandate, the desire for powerful governments, goes hand in hand with the clientele, with the roustetti to our own people, with great economic interests, with the involvement and association of SMEs that affect public opinion, with the unjustified waste of resources and other evils and suffering. All at the service of a set-up political game. Everything about the callive self-resistance. Those who do not respect the people's mandate, those who do not trust our people, those who are working on plans to distort their will, are also working on plans to support this distortion. There has been too much - and I will close with it - that, "Hey, what are you shouting about? And SYRIZA with the enhanced analogue ruled, and SYRIZA plays in this game of pre-electional purposes, plays with the game of blackmailing the conscience of voters." With regard to all of this, two comments and I am closing. Do not judge, first of all, the perverts themselves, nor your own methods of altering the people's will, nor all those who have moved their lives elsewhere, from those who, while they have moved in the name of the mere analogy, have come to change the electoral system every elephant of the elections and even according to how it was working for them. And a second observation in relation to what you're giving SYRIZA. I will not dwell on one of the positions and arguments used by my colleagues. So you're saying we play this game, too. That's a good one. Let us not slow down our dreams in proclaiming an election victory and even the polls. The Left in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, comes far away and draws farther. In our ideological origins, respect for the people is trust in the powers of the people's movement, it is what we say with two words democratic conscience. In our ideological luggage is social justice, it is people's equality, without discrimination by sex, skin colour or economic situation. That's why left and simple analogue go hand-hand. That is why in the 2016 debate the then President of the Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, in the debate on the simple analogue was placed saying "the simple analogue is written in the DNA of our prolongation". You should know, ladies and gentlemen, I am not interested or interested in how many you see, if you see it, how clearly you see it. But be sure that the day that our people will impose a mere proportional system is not far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u843	We continue with Heraklion and SYRIZA. Mr Mamulakis Charalambos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u844	Thank you, Mr President. We are therefore called today to discuss the electoral law. I think it is a draft law that gives the opportunity to demonstrate, I would say, the ideological differences surrounding the two parties, SYRIZA and New Democracy. So we have two specific stables between this policy. We have SYRIZA, a progressive party that promotes cooperation, consensus and respect for the people's will on the other hand, New Democracy, a deeply conservative party that wants to bring back the party's state and the domination of the few and elite who want to return to the old regime, which of course, as you know, led us - and the country of course - to the destruction, economic, social and moral. The rhetoric of the New Democracy is based on a false dilemma - we have heard it many times today, we will hear it tomorrow by the vote - about intergovernmentalism in order to clearly mislead the people. One of the arguments against the mere analogy - which we support from a position of the fixed principle of the Left - is allegedly the intensity mentioned by the New Democracy. At the opposite, then, we say: The mere proportionality is essential for the equalisation of vote, the unadulterated portrayal of the popular will and above all the pluralist formation of the House. They are concepts which may cause allergy to certain seats here in the House. We always support the people's sovereignty and the social majority, which is being acted on simply proportionally, contrary to the New Democracy, which wants the country to remain in the logic of the powerful monopartite government, a hard party state, the popular sovereignty of the few and the chosen ones. After all, so far it has appeared from its policy that the dominance of the few and the chosen ones is going to be packaged with the service of the few and the chosen ones. Aren't these practices, ladies and gentlemen, not the ones that led the country to bankruptcy and to the memos? The self-government governments after the post-population and then didn't lead us to the crisis? So is the real dilemma that exists: Greece of cooperation or Greece of the crisis? And because Greek citizens are not blossomers, - we all know, we all remember - in June 2015 the PASOK with president then Evangelos Venizelos submitted to Parliament a proposal for a law on the implementation of the simple act. Of course, then it obviously served the design of the left parentheses. Because when the government of SYRIZA tabled a proposal in 2016 for a law on the introduction of simple proportionality, the PASOK voted against it. Here, let me have a report. In 2016, three years before the 2019 elections, nothing was intended, nor was anyone aware of the outcome. Obviously, we had huge issues to handle until then. Priorities were other at the time. But in 2016 a well-established principle for the Left, the creation of conditions for simple analogues, was achieved in self-government, without even giving it one day to implement the law. Because there again, with this polite argument on non-governmentality - without giving an opportunity one day to apply the simple to the local authorities, to the local administrations, to the municipalities and regions, and I know that as a former self-government - there was a circular in August, a few days before the beginning of the next municipal and regional period, in order to resolve the possible insolence procedures that would be created. It's the well-known Circular Theodoriccus. And the decision of the Council of State on constitutionality is still pending or not. Because we talked about pirates before then, PASOK, we won't forget Adoni Georgiadis. He's your Minister now. In 2008-it was then on the far right-wing LAOS - he said attributes: "The premium is the theft of victory. We have to have multi-party governments. Democratic logic is to govern a majority, not a 38% majority." So it is good not to mock the Greek people and mention things as they are. Allow me to make a very rapid reference to what is happening in the world. On the text of eighty-six countries - the remark made by my colleague, Mr Sarakiotis earlier - has maintained, institutionalised, simple analogues. It's no accident. The European Parliament, too. For Spain I have heard many heterogeneous interpretations of what effects there are, positive or negative, from the application of mere proportional. One is clear, though, because mathematics is relentless. Just the day before yesterday, the coup d'état of Sanchez, the Socialist Labour Party, with the Podemos, basically agreed and proposed a minimum wage of EUR 950. Yes, in Spain, in the Iberian Peninsula, there's this move. Perhaps here we have another chaotic distance to approach this social issue - it is a deep social issue - such as the definition and level of minimum wages. Two basic areas were the SYRIZA government. The first was the right to vote for the young people of the seventeen years in order to enlarge the electorate. You have, of course, seen the results of the elections. Perhaps you did not appreciate the view that governs the young people of our country, where SYRIZA is the first party. And it will continue to be in the coming years, because that is the trend. And your government and policies that push and trigger even greater proportions for us. And the second part of SYRIZA government is the division of the large Greek regions for reasons of equality and transparency, putting an end to corruption and black money, which no previous government dared to do. I could say too much and argue about issues that concern these two logically. They're two different worlds. And it makes sense for each side to argue. Of course, the impoverishment of arguments has, unfortunately, led to a stumbling-up by Mr Gerapetititi just now and the reliance on the public orally speaking word of the simple ratio with Vaimaris, I think it does not honor him or the party that actually represents him. Ladies and gentlemen, the simple analogue is the only way to restore citizens' confidence in democratic institutions and the political system, which was injured by the one-party governments in our country's recent history. For the major challenges facing the country, especially at this stage with the major issues, governments of the majority, consensus and cooperation are required. The electoral law proposed only by this philosophy is unspeakable. On the contrary, it is a system which takes the most important concept of cooperation from the political system for us, which undermines the principle of genuine representativeness. The Greek people will never be prepared themselves for a profound culture of cooperation and a change in this direction, if there is no legislative division. That's the way it's always happened. This has also happened in the countries of North Europe, Germany, Spain and the European Parliament. We cannot allow that to happen. The polls law you are proposing is very well known to be a polluter, because it distorts the popular will first. The next elections - whether you like it or not - will take place on a simple analogue basis. And the New Democracy - I'm sorry to tell you - will not be a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u845	Thank you, too. And from the South, we go to the north, to the Hebrew Stavros Keletsi, from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u846	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the debate on an institutional bill, on electoral law, I would first like to express my congratulations and wishes to the new President of the Republic, the first Greek President of the Republic, who was elected by a large majority yesterday, as required by the Constitution. This election is, I would say, a dismantling of all the arguments we have heard in the debate on the Revision of the Constitution. The opposition accused us of allegedly changing Rule 32 with a view to imposing a party president. They were telling us at the time and asked: “Will you take off the president of a union? Will you take out an organisation commander and demarcate and nominate such a small majority?’. So here, when the majority stand in the circumstances and make proposals that meet and gather all the conditions laid down by the Constitution for the face of the President of the Republic and its role - that is to say, that he is expressing the unity of the nation, the unity of the people, the unity of the state - and the minority responds - and here I must congratulate both the SYRIZA side of the Officerial Representation Movement and the Change Movement that supported by their vote - then democracy works smoothly and the Constitution really applies both in the letter and especially in its spirit. And now I come to the electoral law. Criticism mainly revolves around the 'fraud' of the principle of equality and equality of vote, which are an expression of the democratic principle, the principle of popular sovereignty, and we are accused of violating this principle, the principle of popular sovereignty. But expressing the principle of popular sovereignty is not just the principle of equality of vote, it is the principle of majority voting. In democracy, a majority rules and a minority, which clearly and embodies its rights, clearly and secures its rights. So we should not forget that. In particular, in parliamentary democracies, where the system is purely parliamentary and not presidential, the parliament must make a government. That is why all constitutionalists - others less and more - accept that the principle of equality of vote is bent, retreated against the other principle, namely the principle of governance, the acquisition of a government majority, a sustainable government. It is also the principle of multi-party expression of the principle of popular sovereignty. And the system that we have, the system that has been in place and in force today - and which we come to improve on some points - is also serving this principle. Why have there not been multi-party polls during its implementation for many years? I may say that there have been the most multi-party parliaments since 1974 and then with this electoral system. Because it ensures - and I must stress this - that, when it was implemented, it ensured more than 3% of all parties, the small under the third, their absolute proportional representation. In other words, what these parties would take if we had a simple analogue, they also take this electoral system. That is why, in fact, there have never been strong protests about this system. Of course, there was a point of argument on the simple analogues, but I think we did it more by obligation. So the system that we are coming today to improve is a successful, fair and, above all, honest electoral system. Why? First of all, it has been tested in practice for many years. As you know, it was established by the PASOK government in Kostas Scandalidis. It was applied, improved under the Ministry of Prokopi Pavlopoulos. At that time, I was honoured to be rapporteur to the bill on the change of electoral law. And today we are coming to improve it even more. This system therefore operates at two levels. The first level is about representativeness and works as proportional. In other words, all the political forces, the existing political forces, with more than 3%, from the third and downwards, are fully represented. They're getting exactly the seats they're entitled to. Secondly, it works on the second level between the first two parties as a majority, but that is fair and honest and acceptable. They are the rules of the game that the first two big parties accept. Whoever wins gets the majority, whoever wins will rule. And don't forget that this system has given governments in difficult times for our country. He gave governments in 2012 and 2015, when the major economic crisis existed. And if it wasn't for that system, with simple analogues, there wouldn't be any governments, nor that of SYRIZA with the ANELs. And after all, the country beyond the adventure of the economic crisis would also face a political crisis. So that's what we're coming up to and we're improving it. First of all, we increase proportionality. The two hundred fifty seats shared proportionally, we make them two hundred eighty. Secondly, the escalation we are establishing works more democratic and more proportionately in the sense that the greater a party receives the easier it reaches its rates and is strengthened by seats in order to form a government. It is the principle of governmentality, which we say, of the country having its own government. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that there is a claim that this alters the result, the political imprinting, the imprinting of the political forces on the political charter and the representation in Parliament. But the truth is one. The political forces do not make the electoral systems. The political forces are made by the people. PASOK was a mighty big party. It's not today. Why? Because that's how the Greek people decided. SYRIZA from a very small party became a big party and ruled the country. Today he came to the Opposition. Has a electoral system prevented him from ruling? Oh, no. So it is not the electoral systems that alter the election result. That is why I believe that this electoral law is a proper electoral law, a useful electoral law and I invite you to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u847	Thank you very much. Mrs Sukoulis - Villiali Marilena from New Democracy and Corinth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u848	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being called one day after the first woman was elected to the High State office to be placed on the electoral system that will apply from the next elections in the constitutional order. You will therefore allow me, as the only woman from all the parliamentary spectrum, in one of the thirteen regions of the country, the Peloponnese, to express my warmest congratulations to the new President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, you will all agree that the symbolisation of its choice is crucial to the recognition of the role and the essential involvement of modern Greek women in all aspects of the social, economic and political process. Now we are going to the proposed electoral law. I would not like to dwell any more on his technical place. It has also been heard in committee, but also today by our rapporteur, but also by too many of my fellow speakers. I would, however, stress the fact that this legislative initiative comes to a vote, as we had promised, at the beginning of the four-year period, to avoid micro-political tertiary and, above all, to avoid political surprise over the electorate, but above all against the political system itself. Political consistency is once again a dominant feature of our government in the exercise of a applied policy, sending a constant and clear message to the Greek people, but also to the outside of the country, that the new government respects its commitments, it observes what it says. We're reliable. The core of the proposed electoral system is the common coordinate between the need to correctly reflect the constitutional principle of the equivalence of citizens and the country's need to consistently implement a programme policy framework, a framework known to the Greek people for election. We are moving towards a system that is even more proportional to the current one, while avoiding paralytic qualities of a system such as what SYRIZA voted for, that is, a system whose implementation in the last self-government elections has caused the well known results for the smooth functioning of OTAs. And if there were no such regulation of the government, we would be talking about unarmed ships involved in personal tactics, without any sign of interconnection with the social desire for prosperity and progress of local communities. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have done so with the coming electoral law of mere analogy. You voted for a system not because you believe in its beneficial qualities, but on the contrary because, as usual, you promoted political turbulence in a policy tool aimed at temporary political benefits. Let's finally say things with their name. SYRIZA has decided to legislate on the simple analogy with the sole criterion for micropartial policy data weighting. You didn't have time to do it at first, you had a lot of workload. And completely accidentally, you decided to change the system when you were now sure that political conditions were not favourable to you. If, on the contrary, your political assessment was different, the mere analogy would have gone for a walk and said the following folk joke, that you were delusional about the usefulness of mere analogy, which would not be the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people dominately decide the form of their government. No result is judged before the Greek people decides. And the proposed electoral system certainly does not distort the popular verdict, strengthens the primary desire for Greek society to have effective governance. The government, in the past experience of the destructive crisis, understands that the term of political stability has been, and will be an indicator directly interlinked with the country's economic and social prospects. We understand, at the same time, that the prospect of national understanding is a key issue for the Greek society, especially in critical national issues. We must therefore be honest with the Greek people by presenting the full data that will be derived from its choices in advance and not ex post. Political parties should, before the elections are held, commit themselves to converging and deviating so that the Greek people know so that they can judge the consistency between election speeches and post-elections. Otherwise, SYRIZA will be able to speak of progressive alliances, but be ready to rule even with the Greek Solution. And if this is a science fiction scenario, we've lived it with the ruler SYRIZA - ANEL, where the only coherent tissue has been maintained in the comfort chair of power. Fortunately, the Greek society is now aware that the only one who will be pleased by the abundance of mere analogy is the political wolf and that is why he will be too late to trust you again. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to look at the service of the public interest, committed to the economic and social recovery of our country. The proposed electoral law is another firm step in this direction. Let us look at political reality in the face and respond to the high expectations of citizens who do not want any agreements under the table, but who are seeking the truth and only seeking the truth as the only way forward to our country's progress in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u849	Thank you, too. The reason is that Corfu Mr Alexandros Aylonite has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u850	Mr. Undersecretary, on the left's DNA, it's the simple analogue. I also told you in the Committee on Civil Liberties. If you're going back too old, until today, you'll see exactly the same attitude. Do I hear the Members of the ruling party say why in 2015 did you not vote on the simple analogue? But is that a point? Don't you remember what happened to the referendum? Don't you remember them? Have you forgotten? How was the SYRIZA government led to a second electoral process? Did you forget? Do you forget, however, that three ministers of yours in the past were transparent preachers of mere analogy? May I remind you that a moment ago Mr. Gerapitris left the next seat, an interdependent constitutionalist, left? If he was here, I'd give him this article since 2015. Do you know what 2015 says? It says that under these circumstances and despite the dubious constitutionality, inconsistent support for the political system and the electoral system with fifty seats, the only electoral innovation of the Greek political system. And this very constitutionalist, Gerapetritis, the Minister of State, questions the constitutionality of the electoral system of the mere analogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u851	He's talking about impeccable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u852	I give you and I will give you his specific article. At the same time, do you know how Mr Gerapitris, your Minister of State, explains the fact that we have been driven into this system of the enhanced majority system? Listen to what he says: "There the political system was led, first because of the client system, family rule, political benefit, cross preference in parliamentary elections, party discipline with the complete disregard of the constitutional requirement for freedom of opinion and vote. And thus led the system with this particular electoral law.’ Mr. Gerapetritis says it. I told you in committee too, and now I tell you. Tell what Mr Vorides' position was, what was Mr. Georgiadis's position, what was Mr. Plearis Athanasios's position? They first suggested to the Greek Parliament that the simple analogue should be restored. I told you. And I testify to this draft law of the past LEADER ever. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is not any bill. I have the impression that you believe that electoral law is a simple law, like everyone else in the ordinary parliamentary procedure. As I said in the Committee on Civil Liberties, in this debate on the electoral law, we have each measured our democratic boy. I would remind you once again - you know that, but also that the Greek people should listen to it - that we are talking about the civilisation that is based on the principle of the majority that has as a core the principle of equality of citizens, the principle of equality of their expression with their maximum voting rights. It is the law that shows how respecting the people's vote and, of course, the people themselves. Tonight and tomorrow we're tempting and showing our boogey. So let's see how democrats you are now, but also over time. You propose that Parliament abolish the current electoral system passed by the SYRIZA government in 2016 and return to the electoral system of the enhanced analogy. I reply directly to you: you want, in despair of the principles of democracy, to monopolize and, in fact, one-sided power, with the fence of hope that the people will always elect you as a first party. You over time despise the scientific community that supports almost all the principle of proportionality and the equivalence of vote as a component of our democratic culture. Your only argument, which, with a fabulous style and clearly of false interest, is that of rulership. You identify the concept of governance with the country's one-party governance. So I ask you directly: Ruleability is only identical to the country's one-party governance? Why? Single-party governments have ruled over all these years. May I remind you how many unilateral governments have led Greece over the years since 1900, since 1897? To go further ahead of the lost Greek-Turkish war, the division, the Asia Minor Destruction, the civil wars, Metaxas and the dictatorship. Who ruled this place? Single-party governments. You took some governments consensual to the simple analogue and charged the sufferings of the Greek people on this. This argument is democratically and politically dishonest. Trust me. The Greek people must be tested with consensual governments and this tortured place must be ruled, where the problems of the policy of the one-party governments are even going through today. And here comes the Minister of State, Mr. Gerapeitris, who claims that the electoral law is unconstitutional with simple proportionalness and says that the law is constitutional. And above all, does it reject the objection of anti-constitutionalism in the most important argument that has been identified by the Opposition that it cannot be unconstitutional in the provision that 60% of a party coalition is given cannot rule and have the ability to govern and get the 50 seats bonus at 31%? Is that the democracy you believe in? Is that the constitution you're implementing? Uh, no. Remember that, since my party chief spokesman, who spoke to my colleagues, who I am talking about, you will fall into the pit you are digging yourself. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u853	Thank you, too. Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u854	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House is today discussing electoral law, essentially a draft law that comes to annul the unadulterated expression of citizens, the simple analogue. The irony of history is that this law is recommended by the Minister, Mr. Theodorikos, who identified his youth with the struggles for the introduction of mere analogy. It's the irony of history, and as an old Marxist, he'll understand me. So what do you suggest? A system in which the first party premium starts at 25%, that is to say, 25.01% the premium begins. So when three-quarters of society has voted against this party that has 25.01%, the electoral law comes and gives it a bonus. You realise that this shows a great reservation you have in the majority of the Greek people, because you are a conservative party. Don't ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are the progressives? They are the ones established in the consciousness of the Greek people, who supported him in the structures of cusitia, social doctors, the forms of alternative economy, who "backed" the society to rise from the large number of memoranda, which set up solidarity structures for refugees and stood against racism and fascism. This is the outline of the progressive citizen, and in this form we are going down to the political track. You are also conservative because you are always relying on the few to command the many. I want to take a break, no matter whether we're talking about electoral law. I have a huge impression about this GNI story. We have the artists who primarily produce the product of their artistic inspiration with their work, their talent, their share. They want to manage the product of their labor and you come and tell them "no, you won't, they will do it by the individual." Of course, apart from the logic that you serve and pay bills to all those who pushed you and put you up to power, this also shows a frustration, a reaction. You turn your back on those who actually produce and have a say in the product of their labor. In addition, you make a dialectic projection. I hear all afternoon that if the percentages of July 2019 were to be with the simple proportional system, the seats would be distributed so. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. If there was a simple analogue, he would have liberated other forces into society. We cannot, on the basis of the criteria of strengthening the decision-making process, judge the mere analogy. Simple analogue is a catalyst, creates dynamics in society, liberates consciences. So you are conservative because you do not understand this dynamic and consider it to be a static size, which you analyse in Profrust's bed on the basis of the results obtained by an enhanced analogue system. You are also conservative because you changed the law with cybernetics in local government before it is even tested to see the deadlocks and make the corrections, precisely so that there is no example of applying simple proportional to public life and it is a previous example, reference to all of us who believe in simple analogues, believe in partnerships and believe in "both" on the basis of common programs. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have witnessed three moments of consensual policy in the vote on the results, in the election of the President of Parliament and in the election of the President of the Republic. So, is your stance hypocritical - I tell you directly - because on an issue of consensus, such as electoral law, you are stirring the consensus and you are unilaterally bringing a draft law that favours you at times and why are you doing so? Because, in fact, instead of putting the issue of mere proportional or electoral law into consultation and debate, you are interested in govern, having the upper hand in the governance of the country, so you ignore the rest of the parties, and you are setting up your legislative initiative at once. One argument is reasonable, rulership. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, rulership is not a numerical given, it is a political given. If there is no matching of popular dynamics, popular acceptance, popular inspiration with the government, this government cannot stand, there can be no rulership. It is very hypocritical to talk about cyberdynamicity with numerical data. Female majors collapsed, Prime Ministers changed instantly, majorities vented, and that's why it happened? It is precisely because it was not for representation in the House to correspond with the popular dynamics. Is that the kind of rulership you want, the "Korse" in society? You want the kalibra where no matter what society says, we run that way? Listen to me. The electoral system is the transmission of the popular will in Parliament. That is and the smoother the popular will is being transferred to Parliament, the more the political system is functioning. You have made unfortunate comparisons to the simple analogue by citing the conditions of the civil war, the conditions of the Asia Minor Destruction. Fortunately since 1974, we have had a very smooth political period, the smoothest, the last and the clearest of all the periods that the country has lived through. Now is the time to show up and apply the simple analogue, but in this case you turn your back. We - and our rapporteur has said so - will take the initiative with the other opposition parties to set up committees, to draw up electoral law for both local government and central elections. It is a challenge and an invitation to the progressive majority, so that all of us who believe in simply proportional work to make it a dominant way of electing MPs, because the place needs it, the citizens need it, we all need it. Society is vigilant, society sees us, society judges us and this evening is a moment when the great importance of the mere analogy and the complete indifference of the New Democracy to its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u855	Thank you, too. Mr. Pericles Mandas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u856	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are voting on tomorrow is an important return to the logic, a logic which, on the one hand, requires us to accept the proportionality of the popular will expressed through an electoral process and, on the other hand, to respect the desire of the Greek people to have governments stable, unstable, governments that are inextricably able to work in the interests of the country, which will not be blackmailed and which will not be under the hostage of the respective agreements that they will have to make, a logic that should be in the face of the opportune and short-term governments like those which we have experienced in recent years, the only objective that they had in the end was how to share power, how to build our party army, how to survive our parties, how to share our ministers. I really wonder - and I can't imagine - what this area SYRIZA could agree with with Mr. Kammenos to govern for four and a half years. What is the area you have had the same political perception? Was it the field - let's say - of education?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u857	Corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u858	We'll get to corruption, too. Was it, like, health or safety? Was Orthodoxy and State-Church relations? Was it citizens' safety? Was it defence and foreign policy? In one thing you agreed: Slit the memorials with a law and an article. And finally, in what you agreed yourself, you admitted that it was a delusion. So you have attempted the simple analogy for your own political reasons to pete the ears of all these left-wings who saw you politicizing, anything but left-wing. And you brought the simple analogue to self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, have you wondered what is happening to the municipalities right now? If we had not voted for the provisions on voting arrangements in this House, at the moment we are talking about, the two-thirds of the municipalities would not have had a budget. And then I could see what you would say to the employees of the municipalities who could not be paid, to the suppliers of the municipalities who could not be paid, that no work could go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u859	And now that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u860	Listen to me. In the Municipality of Kalamata, which is the largest municipality of the Peloponnese, the budget was voted by a minority on the municipal council. I think the result was fourteen, nineteen. If we hadn't predicted that, if there were no other proposal, the proposal that will only take one vote would not be in place at the moment by the Municipality of Kalamata. A survey in the Peloponnese and 80% of the municipalities are in this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u861	That's not true. Ask Mr. Livano.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u862	Of course it is, Mr. Spirtzi. I challenge you to see it. There wouldn't be a municipality that could work. Let me tell you one more thing. Look a little beyond these important things. Look at some decisions made by the municipal councils. They make some embarrassing decisions that oppositions to beat up municipal authorities are coaling up and making decisions, which are either often in the face of the institutional role of self-government or are against the interests of the citizens. We have opposition groups that, when they were a municipal authority, voted in favour of a specific project and now, who became opposition, are voting against. That's what's going on. You don't need much trouble watching them. I really have been watching this debate this morning and I see a lot of hypocrisy. There's hypocrisy on everything. As if you didn't rule this place. As if you didn't take advantage of the fifty seats. As if you haven't broken the coalition of the parties you've had, so you can participate, seeing that you're going to be a government. As if you didn't rule Genarus or September with the fifty seats. Like that never happened. And now you're breaking your clothes for the simple analogy all of a sudden. When do you do that? You do it when you see that you cannot be the first party. And you're trying to pass this as an ideological placement five years later. You are accusing us of being in favour - it says - of the one-party governments. I would remind you that the New Democracy was the first government in 2012, which colluded with two other parties. We opened the way with a programming framework, with an agreement at the level of parties and leaders. Are you blaming us? You are accusing us of exercising - it says - a policy of seduction and bribery. As if we have forgotten what you have done with Mr Kammenos's MPs. Mr. Kammenos told you. Mr Kammenos publicly accused you of having made agreements with his MPs. Have you forgotten? Mr Tsipras said today that we do not take into account the measurements of public opinion, that it is in favour of mere proportionality. When did you take into account the measurements of public opinion? When did you measure that? Did you tell the world what happens to the simple analogue? People are now seeing them in municipal and regional authorities. The last and most awkward joke was that you're accusing us of winning the elections with a policy of deception. Like we're living in a different country. Remember, what did you say when you were in the opposition? Remember, what did you do when you targeted the government then with mud? You then came to the government and created scandals and constructions and targeted your political opponents. You have soared the political division in the country and discredited the political system. You did all this. And that's not all it was. You wanted to endure the future of the country by voting for a law that you know very well that if ever, it will bring about a very difficult situation in our country. Because it will never be possible to form a government which can work properly for this place. I realise, of course, that it seems strange and paradoxical to see that there is a government that literally implements what it has promised the citizens to election. I understand that because you haven't lived it and you haven't done it for four and a half years. So I recommend you get used to it. Because in all areas, education, safety, health, justice and the economy, we will implement all the things that the Greek people have voted for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u863	Thank you, too. Mr Athanasios Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy and the beautiful Lefkada.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u864	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u865	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u866	Ladies and gentlemen, the government brings to Parliament the new electoral law, and indeed, at the beginning of its term, as it had committed. It is a top choice, which is a new model of political behaviour. To date, we had become accustomed to practices in which governments used the electoral system in their party plans, depending on the context. Let me remind you of the Koutsogiorgas electoral law with which the New Democracy, in 1990, at a rate of 47%, failed to bring together fifty-five Members, because the main objective of this electoral law was to prevent the New Democracy from forming a government. The very same practices were followed by Mr Tsipras' previous government. After winning two confrontations with the previous election law that gave the 50 seats bonus, he brought the law of mere analogously when he saw the political scene completely overthrow and consolidated the lead of the New Democracy. They were hoping for the impossibility of forming a government and in second elections with the law of mere analogy, in order to activate the scenario that they had prepared. The same practices followed in the self-government elections, which says that since we have no powers and cannot win the municipalities, then let us dismantle them. Because this is happening today in the municipalities with the results produced by the ordinary analogue. The Municipality of Lefkada is also an example where we all see the paradoxes of this system. If our government hadn't made any progress in interventions that facilitate the rulership of the municipalities, things would have been much worse. These practices, ladies and gentlemen, are in the past. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis shall table and vote for a new electoral law at the beginning of its term, without this option being linked to purposes. The choice of this government is entirely in line with the election announcements that the Greek people knew and approved with their vote. Because citizens want both governmentality and proportional representation of all political forces, which brings back the bill we are discussing. The electoral system that the parliament is required to vote on is more proportional than the current one, but at the same time it encourages the formation of a government. To date, the 50-seat bonus was given to the first party regardless of the percentage. Now, if the first party gathers less than 25%, it doesn't get a bonus. If he raises 25%, he gets 20 seats. And for every half unit, in addition, he wins one more seat. If he raises 40%, he gets the total bonus of fifty seats. I have heard some colleagues from the Police Department using the argument that this electoral law prevents the formation of co-operation governments. But if there is no self-government majority, then governments of cooperation will be sought. After all, by means of a reinforced analogue law, and with the 50-seat bonus, SYRIZA, in two elections, formed governments of cooperation with the ANELs. And here we have to say that history has shown that no consensus can be successful under the battalion of incorporation. To be able to determine political options is not representative. On the contrary, there is a risk that the co-operating minority will hold the majority and prevent it from applying the policies for which it has won the citizens' preference. And, of course, cooperation can easily be an alibi to retreat from these programmable positions. These side effects, after all, are fearful of Greek voters and systematically say in the polls that they prefer self-powered governments. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the new electoral law is not only a guarantee of political normality but also a guarantee of effective transparency and accountability. Because a powerful government cannot hide from the citizens, nor can it blame anyone else for any mistakes and omissions. He takes full responsibility and assumes full responsibility. Moreover, the cooperation of the political forces cannot be confined only to forming a sum of a majority in government. It can be done in the field of top choices for the country, major changes and reforms. At a critical turning point in the economy, but also in our history, crises of insolence and a democratic deficit are unacceptable. Margins of cooperation exist at all times on every subject. And the government has proved to be open to dialogue. He also proved it in this bill, incorporating important elements from the proposals of the other parties. He proved it by the election of the President of the Parliament, by the law for the right to vote to the migrant Greeks and by the election of the new President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's aim is to seek broad consensus. It is a given fact that we would also like this consensus to be expressed on the issue of the vote on the new electoral law. Sadly, however, our political system has to go, as it seems, a great distance still to reach a level of maturity and search for a common place of consensus and cooperation. It would have been a good job to have achieved a broad parliamentary majority which would have allowed this new electoral law to be implemented by the next elections in order not to lead us to double elections. In democracy, however, there are no deadlocks. And citizens will be called again in three and a half years to decide who will govern the country. It is certain that their choice will again be the pure and strong command in the New Democracy and in Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u867	Thank you, too. I will give Mrs Olga Gerovali the floor from SYRIZA and Arta. I'd like to thank Mr. Kotroya for giving up his turn. Thank him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u868	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u869	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u870	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is increasingly ensuring that it manifests the need for consensus on major issues which concern the country. In fact, in the political life of the place, one really has to consent as long as he is aware of when, why and how. We have demonstrated during the debate and the vote of the bill on the vote of Greeks abroad, but also in the choice of the President of the Republic that we can do so. We have the mood for major issues. We don't make a sterile opposition, and we don't disagree to disagree. I really do say this again because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you know, we are not the same. And you say so, and we say so. Just for other reasons. We are holding a stand of responsibility contrary to the whole time that the New Democracy was in the opposition. Let me not remind you of the last year with the particularly acute increase in populism and unacceptable speech on the part of the New Democracy. But even today that you are government, even though you should have more confidence - you do not have confidence in the truth, but an arrogance I would say - your post-confidence is becoming clearer and clearer. In fact, by abolishing the simple analogy you prove that your need for and when invoking it for consent is both platinum and preformative. Of course you are using the subject of consensus as necessary in order to serve another purpose, according to the communication needs of the moment. In fact, what you are trying to do with the draft law is to establish a one-party governance model with a direct distortion of the popular mandate. On this point you were absolutely honest before the elections, indeed. And today you are implementing it. But not for your anxiety about the country and the representation of the citizens. All I think is how chairs are shared in this House, namely card-based power games on the basis of future elections and the future distribution of seats and cutting off the election pie. I think the pie is a little bigger than the last pie of ministries and self-government officials. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you forget that power comes from the sovereign people alone. And as the people are dominated as a whole, and the votes of the Greeks are equal to each other. As a result, it does not mean giving a 50-seat bonus to the first party either stepwise, as provided for in the bill, or not. The representative principle is to be circumvented, since not all voters are equally represented. We are, of course, leading to the crisis of the representative system during Aristovoulo Manesi, as all constitutionalists know best. The question is not a theoretical one but a totally practical one. Is a government with a virtual majority legitimate to make decisions? The answer is obvious. SYRIZA overturned this distortion of decades of our electoral system by law establishing simple proportional and, of course, fulfilling his historic debt. On the contrary, New Democracy reintroduces the reinforced, i.e. an illegitimate analogue to the fictitious chair bonus to burn the simple analogue with double elections, as has been repeatedly denounced. So, here too, our differences are clear. Unfortunately for New Democracy the next elections will be held on a simple analogue basis, and that is a profit for our society. It is a profit not only in principle but also in substance because the governments that are to be formed will enjoy greater people's legitimacy and are more representative of today. Most of all, however, because the one-party governments, which are generally spent, as demonstrated by the present government, on the payment of their political notes, are almost excluded. How many photographic provisions have been passed by the government to abolish from the standard qualifications of the virtues and not the excellent ones, to appoint them to perform, to increase the wages of the poster, to suit blue pensioners. How many and how many cases of state-owned entrepreneurship we all have in mind, which it has favoured and is still favouring, earlier and now, the present one-party government. The dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, on governance or not is a real dilemma because the truth is different. It does not raise a matter of direct governance because it has proved that there can be cooperation governments on the basis of honest agreements and converging schedules. If we were to raise the issue with its real efficiency, i.e. not governmentality but one-party or co-operation government, it is certain that the answer we are going to pass on from Greek citizens is that this would be a useful government, the second one. They would respond that they want a multi-party government formed on the basis of firm and programme commitments. Such a government also makes the country stronger, giving precedence to an unlucky national front. The country does not need a minority government that functions dogmatically and uncontrollably. The stake is this: the sovereign exercise of power by the people, based on the real balances that are formed in society and not on the exercise of power in the name of the people, but on the reality of paradoxical power. In other words, we must leave behind the governments of the few who legislate in favour of even less and, in fact, falsely in the name of the many.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u871	Thank you very much. Mr. Georgios Kotrias has the floor from the New Democracy and the beautiful Fthiotida.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u872	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the electoral system is nothing but a mechanism to determine the way in which the direct popular will expressed by vote is transformed into elected representatives in order to achieve the composition of the Parliament, the emergence of government and ultimately the governance of the country. In our home country, the electoral system is always determined by a similar electoral law, since there is no constitutionally guaranteed rule. Our Government, by tabling this electoral law first of all, implements an important political commitment and implements it - and this is of great political value and importance - six months after its recent victory in elections, at the beginning of its four-year political term, creating a clear field, without terminology, which, in my personal opinion, shows a political honesty and political consistency. And it becomes even more important if we think that SYRIZA, who is today in favour of mere analogy, has been elected twice by the previous electoral law, that of the enhanced analogy, which he remembered and decided to change, not as one of the left government would expect at the beginning of his term, with his first bills, but at the end of his term of office, when he was in the polls now at his worst. If, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the elections are not just like this to record the political forces, but are intended to create a government that will take over the fates of the country, then in SYRIZA it should be wondered what kind of simple analogue it proposes, which in practice does not give the form of a government, leading the country to the paralysis of the administration and the rule of law. Because, the history of Greece shows that we have changed fourteen electoral systems, which corresponds to a electoral law by one and a half elections, an unprecedented percentage which reflects a troubled political life and a tool for electoral law by the respective authority. I ask: does this, ladies and gentlemen, not ultimately alter the main objective of the elections, which is that citizens first of all vote to form a government in the country? Or do we believe that the average Greek is voting to enable parties and formations to negotiate, to be chosen in an endless and incomplete process? The stake of the elections is always the same: there must be a government. I do not know what exactly the proposal and the law of SYRIZA were based on for simple analogues. I think, however, that today he should have been taught by his mere analogy to local government, which if our Government did not directly correct with fire-fighting modifications, it would have blown local government into the air, creating a chaos of government, but if you want a political transaction. Really, if the law of SYRIZA was implemented in 2015, what effect would it give, ladies and gentlemen? With a simple application that each of us can do, it shows that with the forces of the then parties, it would show a weakness of forming a government. This electoral law, which our Government brings, is obviously a system that is more proportional than that applied in 2015, as it provides for subsidies above the 25% limit. I will not go into this because all my colleagues have referred to this. I will only say that, in my opinion, it is a balanced bill, between proportionality and governance. The fact that this bill moves into an acceptable logic also seems to be the fact that the same philosophy, on a different scale, is, of course, followed by the proposal of the Movement of Change, while the Greek Solution accepts it. After all, it is an electoral system that in the years of post-multi-population allowed Central Left, Central Right and the "first time left" to rule. Of course, let us not forget every single time the stiffness of the very large governments. We have also lived with governments since they were a New Democracy, a PASOK and a Democratic Left. It is also worth noting that countries which apply more proportional systems, of course, apart from their well-known established culture in cooperation, have specific safeguards that help to form governments. Because there to get a party into the House, it needs more than 3%. The usual thing is to be 5%, and let us tell Poland, for example, is 7%. Of course it is worth mentioning to our neighbour Italy too. The Italians, who have had as a permanent electoral model a mere analogue since 1956 in 1991, seeing the rule of law with an average life of every government in ten months, have introduced a system of the most popular in recent years, in which the first party or the coalition of the parties to win the elections receive 55% of the seats, regardless of the percentage. I think this draft law highlights two things: first of all, the realism and will of the New Democracy to exist in Greece in a stable government that will produce work. And secondly, it highlights the great difference between SYRIZA and New Democracy and the great difference between Mitsotakis and Tsipras. The left SYRIZA ruled by an enhanced analogue system. He ruled four and a half years and when he saw that he was leaving, he brought a law of mere analogous, remembering, in my opinion, the principles of equality of vote. Instead of being the first concern of the left Tsipras, in fact and not least, the vote of the simple analogy is at work four years, it is governed by the enhanced law, while democrat Mitsotakis, six months after the elections, at the beginning of his term, three and a half years before the next elections, when in fact the first party is in the public interest, bringing no tricks and regularities a new electoral law, with which he restricts the privileges of the first party, which is currently his party. Through confrontation and debate on this bill, I think that most of the qualitative political differences appeared, and I sincerely am pleased to be involved in this government, with this Prime Minister, who above all puts his country and its future and not his party and his future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u873	Mrs Pulou Panagiota of SYRIZA has the floor from beautiful Boeotia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u874	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy in its policy has excelled the communication rename of everything. However, the electoral law that we are discussing today is an unfortunate sample and its arguments are a virtual reality exercise on a sequence of signals and great reasonable gaps. What is New Democracy seeking? It remains in power with one-party self-responsibility and proposes a new electoral law that serves this purpose. I shall briefly refer to the reasonable gaps in the explanatory statement. The explanatory statement criticises the possibility for the individual parliamentary majority to shape electoral law in its own interests, but that is what it does. It seeks to capitalise its recent electoral victory and justify its attachment to systems that distort popular will and make it difficult to deepen democracy. We also read that out of the fifty-three elections so far, forty-five have been majority-five and only eight in any form proportional, on the one hand showing the lack of need for a proportional system and, on the other, the visible risk of intensification. In fact, what is the logical link between the recording of past elections and the findings of a lack of analogous systems and a visible risk of impoverishment? The bill connects the electoral system to governmentality. But, ladies and gentlemen, practicability is not a technical issue. It is an extremely political issue that represents the real social majorities. The New Democracy when it talks about governmentality means only the one-party self-government. In addition, the risk referred to below is converted into an unavoidable development. Attributes are said: "Those elections are carried out with simple analogues will cause painful malfunctions for the country, which will inevitably arise and have already been recorded in our political history since the application of proportional electoral systems". We could remember many examples that the sufferings for the country have coincided with majority voting systems and have also been recorded in our modern history. The painful malfunctions are not due to the electoral systems, but to the malfunctioning of representation, that is to say, to policies pursued with regard to social needs. This identification, which it considers to be implicitly self-evident, is all but correct. This is a reasonable leap, not to a height, but to a close, let me say. That is why it is wrong and completely deaf to think about linking the electoral system to the country's political adventures. The test is to seek out this electoral system that is more democratic and offers the best basis for the healthy establishment and modernisation of the country's political life. This can only happen with consultation and a detailed discussion. Another point in the explanatory statement states that, if the present government had not had five regulations, the municipalities and regions of the country would have been subjected to the rule of law - we have heard it from many colleagues and before Mr Cotia of the New Democracy - and from administrative paralysis and would have become the pretext of occult and opportunistic convergences that are independent of the public interest. Your reference to the recent municipal elections, which have been carried out in a mere proportional manner, in our view, is also an unfortunate but indicative example. Apart from arbitrarily prescribing the future of a system that has not even been given the opportunity to act in order to judge, it characterises the government's interventions as beneficial, but interventions which have altered the vote of the people and which have devalued their participation, undermining the dialogue, consensus and collective decision-making in local government. The size of the legislative failure is, moreover, demonstrated by the constant legislative amendments, 20 in number, in how it facilitated the party forces that followed the supposedly beneficial regulation on the rule of law for the municipalities. The government's argument is based on prior decision-making and establishes laws on virtual speculation for the future. Here, and even a similar argument. We read in the explanatory statement that a simple proportional system necessarily distorts the voter's opinion, as it tends to shift the issue of critical consensus and compromises for post-election rather than before. Why do we have to, ladies and gentlemen? Who prevents consent from happening? Certainly a key cause is the fetishity and uncontrolled power written in the DNA of the New Democracy. Is that why allergy, or is the fear of the coalition of partner parties from which the bonus is practically subtracting? Even worse, in the event of a party coalition, the proposed draft law gives the bonus to the independent party that will come second in elections. It is an outrageous regulation, as well as anti-democratic, which prevents the election partnership of two and - even worse - more parties and its extension leads to mono-party governments, to the party state and to all the negative features of our political system. I would also like to point out that the post-election cooperation is not in advance and sufficiently negative, as the explanatory statement demonizes them. Two recent examples show that post-election compromises and consensus, consensus and composition, I would say, worked well. I mean the vote and yesterday's election of the President of the Republic. The detail is that the New Democracy was forced to enter the debate on the vote of falsifications because its beans did not get out of it, while where the beans show us a person of authoritarianism, institutional misconduct and political failures that cannot be healed because they are unfortunately stumbled on the self-reliance of electoral law. I have a parentheses here to refer to the recent craving of the state of service, Minister. The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum was set up without the Directorate-General for Administrative and Financial Services being transferred to it. Thus, the new Ministry cannot function until another corrective action is taken - the adoption of a new Presidential Decree. You've been late six months to understand the usefulness of the Ministry. We have heard statements and self-criticism from the Prime Minister himself - mea cuulpa, he said - and while he said that you understood it and corrected the mistake, you must unfortunately correct it again. And this is happening while the delay in managing the immigration-refugee has upset the whole country. I do indeed wonder whether this delay is appropriate to trigger xenophobic reactions and social division. It is yet another failure of the government in the series of arbitrariness and irregularities that it has shown in the first half of its very self-reliance and which have abolished human and labour rights, reduced the social state and tackled social problems with excessive authoritarianism. Ladies and gentlemen, the mere analogy, apart from being a fair representation system for the electorate, also obliges parties to reconcile, that is, mature. If they are not yet able to do so, they must be able, with a guide to the two recent examples we have. I would like to repeat by closing that for the Left, the simple analogue has always been a position of principle, which is not linked to micro-party calculations and much more today to the fragmentation of party influence and the crisis of political representation. It is a system that contributes to the upgrading and deepening of democracy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u875	Thank you, too. Mrs Chabica Iatridis of the New Republic is not present. I will give the floor to Mrs. Kallipe Vetta of SYRIZA from beautiful Kozani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u876	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's domestic ministry's bill proves in the clearest way that there are clear and distinct dividing lines, clear and distinct ideologies among political parties. On the one hand, there are parties who say that in a democracy, everyone is equal, everyone can and must be involved in the electoral process from the same point of view and with the same strength. Those who believe that there are no citizens and two-speed choices, those who believe that even one single registered vote has the same power as another that is added to millions of people next to it, those who ultimately defend democracy, defend it and honor it. On the other hand, there are parties that play games with electoral law depending on what is best for their electoral plans, those who calculate, plan, cut and sew, assuming that democracy and equal representation are empty letters, obstacles to the achievement of their great goal which is one-party, self-sustaining, uncontrolled governments. For this category all citizens are equal, but some are more equal than others. The New Democracy, in a hurry to abolish the simple analogue, the fairest and most representative electoral system in existence, confirms in practice that it is part of the second category. Nothing was learned from the crisis, from the fact that the expansion and launching of public debt was due to the mono-party and almighty governments of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-control to secure their party army. In this choice it adopts as its main argument the risk of impoverishment. It considers that it is not easy for two or more parties to join in forming a government. If for reasons of ideology he doesn't want to see reality, we can remind her. Let us remind you of the recent formation of a government in Spain, a progressive convergence which has already increased the minimum wage in contrast to you, which, in another defiance of your election announcements, did not increase the minimum wage to twice the planned growth rate, because, as the Minister said unresponsively, could not, because SYRIZA had done so. This was the official argument of the government that was not ashamed to admit that it misled the Greek people in this matter too. Let us also remind you of the timeless governments of cooperation in Germany, the stable selection of the Christian Democrat party, a party in the conservative ideological area, the proportionality of electoral laws, or finally the use of the proportional electoral system for elections to the European Parliament, a electoral system that applies to millions of citizens on our continent. European karts, unfortunately. The possibility of insolence is a prediction, a speculation that comes from other times and has no special ground today where programmatic convergences and co-operation governments can be made with clear agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's abstention on democracy and the equitable vote is not only seen in today's bill. From the early weeks of governance it appeared that at all levels there is intolerance to equal power of vote. Since the summer, you have already been abolishing the mere proportional treatment to the first and second grades of local selfgovernment. You have left no time and ground on the local councils to consent and work together for the benefit of their electors. From the outset, that is, on the pretext of governmentality, you have dealt with those elected as party rulers who cannot reach agreement even on the basis of the simplest, elementary needs of a local society. The same logic was observed by the Law of the State Secretary for Sport, who abolished the democratic areas of SYRIZA, i.e. simply proportional, across the sport pyramid and the gender quota to legalise a chronic pathogenous status in amateur sport. For you, representation and democracy are distortions and remnants of another era. For us there are conquests that must be safeguarded at all costs. Ladies and gentlemen, just yesterday the Prime Minister, on the occasion of the election of Mrs Sakellaropoulou, spoke with great satisfaction about the consensus that can be reached in the political scene. Indeed, there are cases where consensus can be reached, but today's bill is certainly not one of them. In order to protect and devaluate the vote of Greek citizens, we cannot even consent to this false dilemma 'governance or democracy'. We say clearly that there is a road that unites them both. In this dividing line that you are deceiving Greek citizens know who respects them and who deceive them, who are interested in the deepening of democracy and who is interested in the reproduction of their power, because beyond the games of power there is something deeper that, unfortunately, you are deceiving and degrading: democracy and its deep core, the balance of vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u877	Thank you, too, and we are going through the last measures, we are ending. The floor will now be taken by Mr. Ioannis Giolas from SYRIZA and the beautiful Argolida then Mr. Himaras from Phthiotis and we will close with Mr. Burnos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u878	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law, the New Democracy Government seeks to abolish the most democratic electoral system, the mere analogous, by reintroducing the positive electoral system of the enhanced analogous. If the vote of the inefficient state of staff, the reduction of labour, trade unions and insurance rights, the imposition of state violence and the reduction of civil liberties constituted preparatory action, then by reintroducing the enhanced proportionality the key blow at the heart of the democratic culture is taking place. Unfortunately, we are all spectators of this work. The enhanced analogue is brutally insulting the principle of the equivalence of the people's vote, slaping their vote, preventing the obvious inefficiency between the parties' electoral force and their parliamentary representation and showing to parliament a majority the minority of the electorate, making the black white. It is the system that has been implemented throughout the post-government period - that of course does not justify you being obsessed with it yet - by seeking to ensure the fulfilment of the micro-participatory purposes and the - of all sacrifices - that we remain in power. What you're accusing us of without evidence, you come to confirm them with this bill. SYRIZA, in order to exalt the political system and give substance and content to the portrayal of popular sovereignty, established in the previous parliament the proportional representation of the parties by voting for simple proportional. It has thus created the conditions for restoring the genuine representation of the people's will while supporting democracy in a quality way. We have chosen to introduce this system, not only because there has been a fixed and time-lag demand from the Left or because we have had some obsessed with it, but because with the genuine representation of the parties in the House, the citizens' confidence in the democratic institutions and the political system will be recovered. The simple analogue is the only way to restore the fair, equitable and democratic representation of the people in Parliament. It also tends to governments of cooperation, as modern needs for dialogue, pluralism, understanding and the achievement of the necessary compositions. It also brings together transparency and control, substantial initiatives that are broadly accepted by more parties, as well as the support of the folk who are active in practice, and at the same time, government stability is strengthened and social cohesion is ensured. You, on the other hand, are in a pretext as a major advantage of mere analogy in order to end up in the choice of stability by means of collapsing systems, because that is the only means of the reinforced double proportional - it is a pity to call it proportional - by adding a number of bonuses, namely, one-sixth of the number of seats in the Parliamentary seats, fifty. Where do the artificially enlarged majority groups draw their strength and legitimacy from and how do they guarantee stability to the people by implementing a programme from a party representing a minority? Is a one-party and self-powered government stable with a powerful Prime Minister who is trying to build every time and another system to ensure the weakness in the careful elections? Artificial and with a system will you do that? You who are opposed to the mere analogous system are forgetting that these kinds of stable governments have brought the collapse of the economy, the bankruptcy of the country, the dissolution of the state, memorandums and a suffocating comitology regime for which we have tried, ladies and gentlemen, to bring the country back to the situation in any event of financial relief. To those who do not claim that we do not have culture - the Greek people - and the handover of allied governments, we say that the simple analogue really has the requirement that responsible democratic political parties join together and form co-operation governments and that such governments that emerged from the convergence of political forces have been in Greece since 2012. I shall give two more arguments in favour of the value and the necessity of mere proportionality against the government's disproportionateness. Firstly, by applying the simple analogous principle, expressed by a large number of active and, above all, new and thoughtful citizens provoking apathy, denial and dismissal to politics, the judgement of representativeness and abuse of the institutional functions of democracy can also be expelled. In other words, we have the active citizens, the young people, who turn their backs to politics to reward such situations of cooperation and convergence. In addition, several MPs and government officials are calling for the SYRIZA government because it has not voted for the simple proportional - listen, listen! - before the elections, i.e. in February and August. Because, if I remember correctly, we also had elections on 20 September 2015. This argument is unfounded, since it is well known that the September elections came immediately, completely unforeseen and unforeseen, at the end of a quasi-continuation situation and procedure. Immediately, however, with bold, determined, institutional and democratic consciousness, we rushed to institutionalise the simple analogue with Law 4406/2016, which I had and the honour of being rapporteur on behalf of the then government. I will close, recalling what he was saying before the adoption of the above law in 2016, the Chief of the then-independent opposition officer and current Prime Minister. Listen: "The simple analogue runs counter to simple logic" or perhaps judging by itself, "the then parties of coexistence..." -referring to us and the ANELs and the Green Economists - "...with the institutions to be held in power". Listen, listen to who's saying it! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, if you're kind. Finally, he declared the extreme and arsonist that "bombing on the foundations of democracy is a mere analogue". Well, not like that! In reversing your Chief's arsonist and irrational slogan, we remain unmoved in favour of the mere analogy, as the only electoral system that restores the genuine representation of popular will, confesses to the constitutional principle of popular sovereignty and strengthens and shields the democratic community. And since I have not completed this minute, Mr President, I would like to say this: we prefer a government that may be based on tolerance, rather than on the disproportionate government, that is, on the basis of popular minorities. Finally, because some examples have been heard that municipalities and local authorities cannot be governed by this system of mere proportional - listen, listen! - again, where we had the ghosts of 18%, 20%, 25% to the Greek people or municipal transports get 60% of seats, and there, therefore, the law we have adopted gives and provides insurance for the vote on all difficult issues and for the budget, strategic planning and technical programme to be voted on, since with continuous votes it reaches two finals, one of which will be voted on. What better? What deadlock does democracy give us beyond the vote? So, ladies and gentlemen, we must turn to it, that is the simple analogue. You will suffer it, anyway, and as has been said by our President and by most of our colleagues, the next elections will give the Greek majority co-operation governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u879	Thank you, too. Mr. Heimar Theme from New Democracy and the beautiful Phythiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u880	Thank you, Mr President. Let us also say a word of thanks to the workers in this House for the over-representation of recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, the replacement of the simple system of enhanced analogy was our main pre-election commitment, since the mere analogy has been historically linked both to governmentality and to suspicious alliances and paralytic balances in order to prevent the collapse of government plans. We will all agree, I think, that the new electoral law is being passed in neutral time. It therefore excludes the surprise of the legislature and the electorate. Our aim is to prevent painful malfunctions for the country, which inevitably can arise, because they have already been recorded in our political history. Therefore, in order to clarify our position, the deposit of the electoral law in this period and with this content is an act of political honesty to the whole of Greek society and to our political opponents. With this draft electoral law we clarify the conditions of electoral competition three and a half years before the end of the four-year period of the present government. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left in Greece is true that it wants simple proportionality as a historical demand, assuming that all systems of enhanced analogy are naturally causative. The real Left historically supported the simple analogue system as a fair electoral system, although I believe that it was more interested in finding the best way to avoid losing voters who were going to the Centre before the dictatorship and to the PASOK post-doctorals because they thought their vote would take place there. Let us not forget, too, that the Left has traditionally been against total autonomy of Members of Parliament, considering that the parliamentary groups must move on the basis of the party line. For this reason, it was traditionally against the cross of preference and in favour of the list. However, the placement of SYRIZA in favour of mere analogy is different, as it did not simply focus on the right to find progressive allies to rule, forming a sum of more than 50%. The placement of the SYRIZA focuses on two scenarios that depend on the reading made by SYRIZA executives in the elections. The first is the possibility for the second party to form a government, placing the first party on the post of Officer Response. It's the second government order theory. There you have invested, ladies and gentlemen, in this scenario, in which the people's vote is in the party interest, since you know that the formation of a government without the first party would have serious legalisation problems. The second scenario relates to a minority government, which will constantly negotiate to vote in favour of its policies within the House, by exchanging Members of other parties according to the subjectmatter of the legislation. That is why it has been based on your logic, which says that in our time there cannot be strong groups, as in the past, so we are talking first parties of 30% to 35%, which will necessarily make coalition governments. The last scenario, however, answered by the Greek people in their vote last July. It was a response that was clean and unadulterated, an answer that put an end to the experimentation which was based and the advancement of a permanent election presence of the extreme right, which will in fact reduce the sum of the parties to the constitutional arch. Let us not forget that in this Chamber the risk of the liquidation of the political system remains visible. In fact, electoral systems based on governments of cooperation, but also minority governments, which are constantly negotiating and negotiating their support and other MPs, form a fluid parliamentary setting, a scene which unfortunately favours the transfer of MPs and the reorganisations to Parliamentary groups, allows smaller parties to multiply, which are then used as a complement to forming governments, encourages the dismantling of parties within parliamentary term and the formation of new ones. The results of such positions are that they all lead to a Parliament where there is another correlation in the elections and another in the aftermath. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal on the new electoral system satisfies the representativeness of the people's vote, while at the same time ensuring governance, because it is citizens who have to decide what kind of government they want, one party or another. Citizens must decide, not the electoral system. This draft law ensures not only governance, but the credibility of the political system is strengthened, which is also a great concern for the country. The case of the country's governance cannot be circumstantial. Our country cannot be dragged into constant elections, which, particularly at this juncture, will hit the international prestige and cause destabilisation in the national economy. The provisions of the draft law are designed to find a common component between the proportionality of the representation given by the people's mandate, electoral power and governmental stability. I close, ladies and gentlemen, with the following considerations. We do not have the luxury of losing any more years of conflict and controversy. In lost years, we have lost generations, and we are here today to ensure that there are no future lost generations. We are here, and that is what we are doing to the Government of New Democracy, to take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u881	Thank you, too. We'll be closing down with SYRIZA's Deputy, Mr. Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u882	Thank you, Mr President. The current government comes with this bill to abolish a flagrant democratic reform of the SYRIZA government. It abolishes the simple analogue system, i.e. the unadulterated expression of the popular will, the electoral system which restores the parity of each vote, whether it is given to small or large parties. We also need to remember that equality of vote for all of us is equality, above all politics. Simple analogues enable this equality to be expressed, not only in a pluralist Parliament, but also in a co-operation government, governments that express precisely the will of more citizens, reflect genuine social majorities, governments that are trying to compose and reconcile different approaches and visual, different sensitivities. Simple analogue disciplines the citizens, but also the parties in another political culture, in another culture of understanding and cooperation, in a renewed, ultimately democratic spirit. And right here, in the field of democratic ethos, it is also the worst element in your attempt to abolish the simple analogue. I am referring to the contempt and insulting the democratic will of the citizens you are showing and in particular is shown by your Chief, when you declare your right and left your intention to burn the simple analogue and to go to double elections, facing the top democratic election process as a detail that needs to be avoided, as a parenthesis. What exactly are you going to burn, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? Will you burn the democratic expression of the citizens, their desire to see any government of these parties or those of them? What do you want to burn? What do you think of parentheses? The exact and genuine imprint of political correlations and dispositions of citizens? The fair distribution of seats and parliamentary power of the parties that the Greek people want to send to Parliament? On the other hand, in order to abolish the mere proportionality, you are reliant on arguments of alleged insolence. So, what exactly would happen if a co-operation government were formed? What has happened to all these European countries, in which for decades the governments of cooperation, progressive or conservative parties, centre-right and centre-left coalitions have been changing? Do the Scandinavian countries and the other northern European countries, which are effectively applying simple analogues, have any problems of stability and the quality of institutions? The last example of Finland, with a five-party government, in which, in fact, it does not like New Democracy, and the Prime Minister and leaders of the four remaining parties are women. Why, let me remind you, Mr. Aygeakis in the sports bill told us that the gender quota is a fossil of the past. Because you often call on the argument of culture, do we not have a simple analogue and co-operation government in Spain and Portugal? What has been lacking in these southern countries, which also apply simple proportionally? Do they have less democracy than we do, have a worse economy than we do, or do they have higher corruption than we do? I listened carefully to Mrs. Vultusis. Because, at the end of the day, they have none of these problems more than us in Spain and Portugal, the problem of Mrs Vulture and the stubbornness she has achieved against the Spanish and Portuguese political experiments, is that these governments, without the parties of the European People's Party, have managed to gradually reverse austerity policies and increase the basic wage and to broaden social policies. It is this political substance that makes you strongly opposed these examples. At least give up the arguments on stability and the need for majority voting, which reveal provocative ignorance of European reality. Just proportionalness is, in practice, genuine harmonisation with a dominant political practice in Europe, even in the elections to the European Parliament. It gives notable stable cooperation governments based on programming agreements and political compromises. But is that exactly what you want to avoid, programme agreements, understandings, compromises and, above all, control over your actions? For, of course, your misleading interest in supposedly stable governments hide other intentions and other concerns. It hides your need to exercise power without control, so as to treat the country undisturbedly as a spoil, as you have done for decades. This need, especially in your case, is existential. Because that is why you are in politics, which is why your party is standing around fireplaces and party leaders, so you are opening your doors and putting the state in the state to the most ruthless politicians, as long as we have learned, as we have heard recently, the army of voters. So it hides your initiative to eliminate your simple analogy and deeper fear of your own stability. Why are you afraid that a mere analogue may encourage divisions and centrifugal tendencies, precisely in a party like yours, a party like New Democracy, which I see no longer being formed on the basis of principles, but as a loose federation of actors and parties, with conflicting principles and ideologies and sometimes with a total absence of principles and ideology, apart from bulimia for power and incomprehensible service of the few and the chosen ones? We have, moreover, seen in the self-government elections, which you refer to inversely, the true nature of your party. These pathogens all the time and perpetuation are the electoral system you bring. You want an electoral system that will facilitate the arbitrary exercise of power, the contempt of the social majority. You give a bonus of twenty-euro seats even from 25% and regardless of the difference between the first party and the second party. What will happen, then, if the difference of the first by the second party is so small and Parliament is detected the possibility of forming a government from the second and third or fourth parties? In Portugal we have had just one such progressive government for four years. How democratic is it to prevent such alternative majorities from being expressed governmentally? But the truth is that these are not your concerns, they are not the real majorities that are interested in you, they are not the consents that concern you. It is enough for you the consent of the media and the oligarchs, who give you the air to believe that you will be able to deceive the Greek people again, to overcome your indignation from your failures that are gathered after each other, speaking as a Member of the Lesvos and remembering, for example, your Vaterlo in refugee. It's the middle majority that makes you so arrogant, because it opened you once the way to grab the power and you think it'll open it to you every time. You're being resented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u883	Thank you very much. Tomorrow morning at 9.00 a.m. Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos from the Change Movement will open at 9.00 a.m. and will follow Mr. Ioannis Pappas from New Democracy, Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement, Mr. Vernardakis from SYRIZA, Mr. Charitou Dimitrios from SYRIZA and Mr. Avramakis Eleftherios also from SYRIZA. Colleagues, you have been distributed the Minutes of Wednesday 13 November 2019, Thursday 14 November 2019, Friday 15 November 2019, Monday 18 November 2019, Tuesday 19 November 2019, Wednesday 20 November 2019, Thursday 21 November 2019 and Friday 22 November 2019 and asks the House whether it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u884	The minutes of Wednesday 13 November 2019, Thursday 14 November 2019, Friday 15 November 2019, Monday 18 November 2019, Tuesday 19 November 2019, Wednesday 20 November 2019, Thursday 21 November 2019 and Friday 22 November 2019 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-23-S1-commons.u885	With the consent of the House at 1,03 the meeting is closed for today, Friday, January 24, 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Election of Members".
