ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Happy birthday to our national holiday! Before entering the legislative work, let me first announce to you the following: First of all, I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Friday 30 October 2020. ‘A. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 90/26-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Athanasiou (Thanassis) Papachristopoulos, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on "Improve the connectivity of Kastelorizos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 62/14-10-20 is a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement of Mrs Constantine (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Main the issue of the dismantling of high-voltage airlines by the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou and their replacement with high-voltage (S.T.) underground cables". 3. The question asked by MP B1's North Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increasing and inappropriate police violence against peaceful protesters". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 65/16-10-2020 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘It is difficult to absorb compensation from the affected by Evia’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Development and Investment, on 'Insurance and uncertainty for the Scaramaga Naval workers', by No 74/19-10-2020. 3. The Question No 64/15-10-20, by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Surrency and asymmetric violence against citizens gathered at the celebration of democracy against the crime organisation Golden Dawn". 4. The question by number 79/19-10-20 is a timely question by Members Pella of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Theodoras Jakri to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The disinvestment of SIEMENS" and the departure of PITSOS to Turkey." 5. The question raised by Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, dated 76/19-10-2020, on "Small budget for Crete in the "Security - Autonomous" programme. 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Courture charges and three nights in GDR for a fourteen-year-old student for protesting." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 77/19-10-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on "Support for regional media". 8. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Governmental reward for illegality in Io'. I also have the honour to announce to the House the following: First, the Minister of Culture and Sport, as well as the Minister of Finance and Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on 27-10-2020: "Following the Arrangement of Cultural Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (now the Ministry of Culture and Sport) of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Heritage of New Zealand". Secondly, the Minister of Culture and Sport, as well as the Minister of Finance, Foreign and Education, tabled a draft law on 27-10-2020: "Following the Culture Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro". Thirdly, the Minister for Culture and Sport and the Ministers for Economic Affairs, Development and Investment, Justice, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister have tabled a draft law on 27-10-2020: 'Statement of the Council of Europe Convention on Violences on Cultural Goods and Implementing Provisions'. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Debates and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 1. ‘Strengthening the Memorandum between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait in the field of Industrial Cooperation’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in Science, Technology and Innovation’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, only those who object to the ratification of the conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that the President of the Parliament is not speaking. The vote of both conventions will take place at the end of their debate, separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. Does a colleague want to take the floor? I don't think there's a point of order. Just so you know, the positions of the parties in the committee for the first ratification, for Kuwait, are as follows: The New Democracy voted in favour, SYRIZA in favour, the Change Movement in favour, the JRC against, the Greek Solution against and the Mer25 expressed reservations. For the Russian Federation, New Democracy in favour, SYRIZA in favour, Change Movement in favour, JRC against, Greek Solution in favour and Mera25 in favour. We are therefore giving the floor to the rapporteur for the JRC, who objected for five minutes on both sanctions. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is a well-known fact that the Communist Party of Greece is seeking, supportive of relations between countries and peoples, with one condition, of course, ensuring the principle of equality of relations between the mutual economic and social benefits, solidarity between the peoples, in particular with a view to their well-being. Consequently, the contracts discussed between Greece and Russia and Kuwait, on the basis of scientific, technological and industrial cooperation, are being examined with this very criterion. The truth is, unfortunately, - and in fact - that the blessing of technology and scientific knowledge in the hands of monopolistic groups is a curse for society. Science and technology in all sectors, obviously, have made huge leaps that could improve the lives of workers and peoples around the world, but, of course, today's capitalist reality shows, relentlessly, completely the opposite. It inhibits the benefits and scientific achievements to reach the vast masses of peoples all over the world. We note that people are impoverished - we live through it every day - they die, live unemployment, poverty, homelessness, without basic health services. The higher the pandemic of the coronary is so widening and the aggression of the workers' rights, and an additional tool for that is teleworking as a result of the development of world-wide technology, especially in sectors where it is easy to apply, in telecommunications, information technology, services and elsewhere. Around the issue of teleworking is developing an entire ideological campaign that supposedly won are workers and employers. But what is proven in our country and internationally throughout the capitalist world is that teleworking abolishes any discrimination between working time and non-working time. Complaints daily, talking about 12 hours work, weekend work, late night calls on mobile and e-mail from heads and overtime. In circumstances, therefore, of many elastic working hours and the demanding time of diagrams for the application of modern systems of evaluation and measurement of the performance of workers, the simultaneous presence of children at home, not only is it not easy to combine family obligations, but, on the contrary, the social life of the worker and of the family is negatively affected. The results are not merely shocking, they are tragic, we would say, and as long as technological and scientific discoveries and innovations serve economic interests and not man, such phenomena, not only will they stop, but they are constantly growing. The Agreement with Russia concerns the issues of copyright protection and distribution, the transfer, distribution and use of confidential information. In itself, however, it also answers the question 'why would it be intellectual property and not intellectual property?' The main reason why copyright is known as copyright in the European Union and as a whole in the capitalist world and in capitalist Russia today, in the United States, as intellectual property in China is because they are interested in converting the latter into a marketable species, that is, property can be purchased, because, as you know, a right is inextricable. The association of intellectual property with incentives and innovation in the market economy therefore means controlling and adapting research and technology, and hence development, for the benefit of capital. In our opinion, therefore, it is hypocrisy to want cooperation in the fields of research and technology, when over time all governments cut government spending or fund business groups through the European Union to do research and promote their products. And in the Convention with Kuwait, the main priority is cooperation in industry in increasing investment and attracting investors in Kuwait in our country, the development of business structures such as special business zones, technology parks and other cases, as well as scientific, technical and technological developments. In fact, this cooperation is invoked to promote peace and stability in the Persian Gulf. We'd say it's hypocrisy. It is, in fact, an alpine impression with such cooperation, and indeed with a call for peace in the region, when we know how Kuwait treats neighbouring peoples. In fact, what this agreement also seeks is to attract foreign direct investment to return the mass of investment to the levels of pre-crisis, as well as to exploit the country's geostrategic position in terms of energy and transit node with the support of specific sectors, the formation of similar infrastructures and alliances, on the background of imperialist competitions for transport and roads, as well as for goods. Consequently, on the basis of what we have said, the Communist Party of Greece is voting against both of these conventions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u4	And we thank you, because you only took one minute longer, although you're on both contracts against. Now, the rest only for the contract for which you disagree or express reservations are given the floor. I give the floor to the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliardos, for five minutes in order to place himself on the sanction for Kuwait.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u5	Are we only talking about one sentence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u6	Look, together we are discussing both, but the reason is taken by those who object. The Greek solution objects to the first, to Kuwait, and is in favour of the second, to the Russian Federation. So the position of the rapporteur, not of the parliamentary representative or of the party president, is only on the contract which has disagreed. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in committee we have called for the withdrawal of the ratification of the agreement with Kuwait, for the same reason that the agreement with Azerbaijan was withdrawn, and it should also be withdrawn with Qatar, otherwise of course we will vote against it. The cause, with regard to Kuwait and the rest, is that we cannot sign or ratify contracts with countries that support Turkey, which at the moment, in addition to its invasions in the Aegean and its wars everywhere, seeks a next Armenian genocide. And it has been demolished to such a large extent that it is still verbally attacking other European countries, especially against France, which, as it seems, has no intention to tolerate it. We will be supplementing here that the European Union's only hope in the face of the ally of Turkey, Germany - which is trying to dominate other countries with economic weapons this time - is France. I hope the Greek Government understands it and finally stops beating the head in Chancellor. It's a disgrace. With regard to the agreement I would like to say that it was signed last year before the elections, after a visit by a Greek mission to Kuwait. We will not repeat the economic sizes of the country and its history, after we analysed them in committee, only by saying that the recent relative approach of Kuwait to Turkey is considered to be due to the partial withdrawal of the United States from the region where Turkey is currently being used so that there is a counterbalance in Saudi Arabia that seems to be approaching Russia for some time now, while it has issues with the dollar. Kuwait now - which has no good relations with Israel - by stating after the United Arab Emirates Agreement with Israel that it would be the last to do so, called for the creation of a military base in Turkey, as we have tabled in the committee's minutes. It is therefore another good reason to withdraw the contract that we will certainly be voting against, and the reason for the signature of the agreement that the Minister has mentioned, in which it is our interest, because it will give Greek companies the opportunity to act there in the projects planned, obviously it cannot satisfy anyone. Our national interests must always be given priority, not to come after whatever business, as the Minister unfortunately believes. We also mentioned that what would be of interest to us is the vertical farms it has, that is, modern indoor vegetable greenhouses with ultraviolet radiation or hydroponics, as we have tabled in the Minutes. However, we can - and we must - find technology from other countries, noting that the Gulf States are now producing food and are not importing by using these methods. That is exactly what Greece should do, ensuring the nutritional adequacy of its citizens, which should be the highest priority of each favoured country. In particular, as far as the contract is concerned, it is very general, almost a report of ideas, and it has neither objectives nor commitments. The cost of the agreement depends on the activity that would have existed between the two countries, and given its vagueness there are no guaranteed results. In any case, the convention has nothing to offer us, and there is a risk that critical information will be available in view of the relationship between Kuwait and Turkey. Although she's not as developed, of course, like the Qatar one. On the other hand, Kuwait may not be able to offer us many things, but certainly with the money it has is able to support Greek companies and also finance projects in Greece. However, as we have said, our national interests take precedence. So we're staying in our position to withdraw the deal, or we're going to vote against it. Incidentally, I would like to express our concern about the abstention of all parties, apart from the Greek Solution, from yesterday's national feast in depositing a wreath to the Unknown Soldier. Is it really considered nationalist, such as the extension of our territorial waters to twelve miles during Mr Chrysochoidis? Or has Germany been banned, such as claiming compensation for the pollution scandal of its car industry? We hope that the Minister will solve our question, since the coronary cannot be the reason, when schools with closed classes of twenty-seven students are allowed to run, while the event was outdoor with masks and distances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Mr. Logiadis George from Mera25. The President of Greece has then asked for the floor instead of the parliamentary representative. Of course, as I can see, the parliamentary representatives who will be given the order of the parties as you all know will be able to speak. I've already seen Mr. Skourletis asking me for the floor and Mr. Loverdos. Last, Mr. Bukkokouros has been asking for New Democracy. Mr. Clalon Gregoriadis has also asked for the floor. Mr. Loyades, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wish, in my turn, a lot of years for our national festivities yesterday. Today we are discussing the memorandum between Greece and Kuwait on industrial cooperation. As the Minister has said in committee, the agreement is industrial cooperation, it is not research and technology. The memorandum states that it is important to attract Greece to investors from Kuwait, but we know that today in Kuwait there is a lack of liquidity. When the former Minister of Finance of Kuwait in 2016 warned that it was time for the country to prepare for a time after the oil, it faced huge reactions. Four years later, 2020 is one of the richest countries in the world trying to get through, as the rapid drop in energy prices raises serious questions about what will happen with the Gulf States. The warnings of the former Minister of Finance coincided with a series of corruption scandals, some of which included senior family members. The legislator asked the government to put an end to money laundering before more debts were accumulated. I would point out that the contradictions between rich and very poor in Kuwait are enormous. As a PART25, I should like to stress that at the same time on the international energy market new balances are being created that are folding towards promoting more environmentally friendly forms of energy, such as green and renewable. Further Article 5 of the memorandum, Minister, states that this memorandum of understanding will be valid for two years. And I ask: what serious investor will invest in a two-year horizon, so short-term, even if the memorandum states that it can be automatically renewed for equal periods, unless some place denounces it? This is a serious problem, in our view, for serious long-term investments. On the other hand, for ten years Greece has been bankrupt with a debt of more than 320 billion and a GDP of about 175 billion and a very bad economic position, and due to the recent crisis in the krone, as well as the enormous new armaments costs it regains, among others. As far as Greece's GDP is concerned, there are three elements: from 1990 to 2017 the primary sector went from 14% to 7%, the secondary sector from 30% to 17% and the tertiary sector from 56% to 79%. When we have not made it clear, we do not have a time-consuming plan and planning what exactly do we want, when we have one of the largest merchant fleets in the world, but without the corresponding shipyards and without even a Greek classificationist, do we know exactly what we want and where we are going? Kuwait has targeted the development of its economy by 2035 from its total oil dependence and fossil fuels. I ask: what are we going to do with that? We at Mera25 are against the extraction of hydrocarbons and fossil fuels for reasons, above all, environmental and economic and geopolitical reasons. I would also like to mention an omission I see here in the memorandum. Normally, the two members must be equal. On the one hand, we have the Secretary-General for Industry and on the other hand the Minister for Finance. I wonder what would have happened if the American Finance Minister, China, India and we were to send him our Secretary-General. I think the members should be equal. That was a mistake. For all this, because the memorandum is not research and technology and science - otherwise the memorandum with Russia, which we are voting for - because Kuwait has all the above problems that we have mentioned - the political instability, corruption, the huge lack of liquidity - because the memorandum has a very short time horizon of two years and because we in the Merra25 are against mining, as Merra25 we are voting 'the present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u10	And we thank Mr. Loyadis. Please prepare a health check. I call on the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a rhetorical question, beginning with my speech today. How would you characterize a guy who helps his enemy's friend? What would anyone call in here if he had an enemy, evil enemy, who even wants to murder him, and that guy goes and helps his enemy's friend? I don't understand the logic. Can I talk to you? Stupid. Because the one who helps his enemy's friend feeds the wolf that will eat him. I start like this by referring to Qatar. Inadmissible! Contrary to national interests, help hostile countries. Five thousand Turkish soldiers are in Qatar. Huge military base, even a shipwreck. I, too, wonder about Andreas Loverdos who accepted this. In 2008, Qatar acquired the second largest media group in Turkey with 1.1 billion. He pledged to invest 15 billion dollars in Turkish banks a year and a half ago. A joint defence cooperation project between Turkey Kuwait was signed in 2019. Three hundred Cuban companies have activities in Turkey. The total amount earned by Turkish companies in Kuwait is $7 billion. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, when I know that a country has a military agreement with Turkey, such as Qatar, I wonder how you bring ratification today. You'll tell me you brought Azerbaijan back a few days ago. So capable of making such a state, do not you realize that at the time Turkey is causing and claiming, while Turkey is creating enormous problems in our country - and also in economic terms - you cannot bring me Turkey's ally, Qatar, to make me the ratification of the agreement. That's unauthorized. Take it after a year or two. Do I have to? And why do you bring it now, you tell me? Do you need all the Cubans and the Catarians? You tell me. You remind me of the Vuca movie. Do you remember Vucasas, Minister? The Minister now has high-level talks with the State Secretary. Anyway, I have another philosophy in my life, because it's not all money, it's all not entrepreneurship. Above the company is Greece. Over money is the national interest. If the New Democracy fails to do so, I am sure that in a few months' time - because the history of the polls will return - they will be crying for themselves. These are criminal errors. I told the Prime Minister. I talked to him and insist on it. When Qatar has given the Turks a military base, Greece is not entitled to sign a ratification with Qatar of what billions will take and when you get and if you get it. It's over and over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] These are fairy tales. You feed the Greek people with "san" and with fruitful hopes that Greek businessmen will invest in Kuwait. What do I care, Mr. Adones? Minister, do I care if a businessman invests in Kuwait? I care about investing in Greece. Here to have workers, here to hit unemployment, not in Kuwait. You've learned with contractors take a life. Do the contractors work in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia. They should, why shouldn't they? First they do here, however, in our home country, in Greece, where we have unemployed children. They're looking for a job of six hundred thousand Greeks in Europe. Let's get back to them, let's invest here, and then we talk about it. But let's actually go. What's the point? I'm talking to a minister who's read Thucydides, get and get up! Mr. Georgiadis, I'm talking to you who have read and read Thucydides and read him well. Does Thucydides say such things in there? Oh, no! He says something quite different. I'm saying it because I'm truly unreasonable about myself in here. All right with Russia, go with another country, yeah, but with Kuwait, with Qatar? The Qatar that finances jihadi organizations, guys? You don't know that? Ceci told you the other day. Qatar gives money to jihadists, Mr. Loverdo. Ceci told the Greek Prime Minister yesterday. Qatar gives money to jihadists, and Ellas comes and sentences the Qatar. Well, it's contradictory. I won't say anti-national, unwilling, but it's absurd. It doesn't make sense, anyway, it's not my sense. Minister, why didn't you do all the tests you've done today? Today, it's a mess. The whole of Greece runs a free test. Why didn't you test for so long? Why did you test me? And you do well, it was our proposal from the beginning. The proposal was ours, namely, a rapid detection of asymptomatic and non-symptomatic, to isolate them. Suddenly, since the knot came to the tennis, all Greeks run tests. All Greeks have to perform a test, but why didn't you do it before? The government has to apologise for that. A government that doesn't tell the truth. Let me tell you the truth. We don't have buses, don't be fooled. We don't have hospitals. We don't have doctors. We don't have any money. We don't have rooms for our children so they can go 15 - 15 to learn. We don't have teachers and teachers many times. But we have money for the media. Again, you are feeding two million of the media, plus 41 million euros of the channels. Well, all day, Minister, you and your government will be savage. You're going to be smuggled all day, that's for granted. Lebanon, 41 million. Because they didn't pay for their dose. Check it out. It's 20-22 and another 19, about 41 million. I know all about that. They didn't pay the dose, the dose that SYRIZA managed to get. Evil SYRIZA here, these bad people, they were charged with a dose, and you lighten them up. But in the papers nothing. On the site, now, nothing. On the regional channels? Well, that's where some of the ER's men put in order to chase these channels to pay a fine. I say this to understand - and I am not talking about the government, to God, to make this clear - that all of this shows that your policies are wrong and that you will go ahead with them. The problem is, we'll pay her in the end. We'll have dead. From an overinflation of your mistakes, we now find Thessaloniki at risk with a general lockdown. And ask Halkidiki what's happened this summer, Mr. Georgiadis, how much money the focus has lost. Ask people who don't have a job. Ask those who work at the stores how they work from now on, if we close it all down, because they will necessarily be shut down by your inability. Because if you did a coronary test, we wouldn't have any problems, Mr. Georgiadis. In March the Prime Minister arrived at a lecture and told us to be patient, not to have Easter, to enjoy the next Easter. Then you told us to be patient this summer to enjoy the next summer, Mr. Georgiadis. Today you told us, leave October 28th, to enjoy the next 28th October. Now you tell us, leave us Christmas to enjoy next Christmas. Well, you can't drag that story. I'm telling you, this story can't be dragged. I'll tell you otherwise: This story has something to do with the following tactics. I've submitted infinite studies of other experts. None of the governments took into account. Basic rule is a lot of tests. I've been saying that since March. I'm afraid you did it to me. What about the worst? You let 'TUI' and tourists enter uncontrollable, without control - the worst crime - and that thing comes right now and it rises and will explode. Who's gonna pay her? The Greek who has the grill, the Greek who has the hotel, the Greek waiter, the Greek who is a fryer, the Greek deliver, any Greek who works. This shows a lack of planning and, above all, lack of mood to understand entrepreneurship and I am talking to a man who had businesses, such as Mr Georgiadis, and I cannot understand what he does not understand. Friends and friends, I fear that by means of information we will reach a point in listening and obeying only. I fear that we will reach a point when we are no longer thinking and not demanding. I am also afraid that we will accept everything without 'do not'. And most of all, we will never react. This is the attempt of the media to subdue every logic and every reaction, I would say, in everything that is happening. And it is wonderable to hear the Minister say that they are traitors or are not patriots who have deposited a crown yesterday. What a signicant jump that was, I didn't understand it, while illegal immigrants are on their way today at noon. I don't know if you found out. They're getting their way freely. ADVANTA, ERIC, Istanbul and the others. Athens's full of posters. At this time that Evangelatos comes out, this man unbelievable and characterizes those who took ten cars and marched in the city. I mean, unbelievable things! This gentleman, if I'm not mistaken, got 800 grand from the previous money for the site, etc.Huh? To enjoy the man, all right, but a lot of money, you'll tell me. It is a good thing, however, that the 'livan' is a good one. I like to get me out of "MEGA", to sneeze me on the sites, to say good words to me. Um, with 41 million euros bulb, not incense, incense, incense, incense, incense, mustard, whatever you want, you will have! But to what point? Until the money's over. Because if the money is over, the immunity of the channels will be over, Minister. And I'm not telling you. I've told everyone who doesn't understand the meaning. And we'll go down there, and I'll close up here. I believe that what the political parties did yesterday, Mr Loverdo, at the Monument of the Unknown Soldier was disrespectful. They could send all parties a representative to the wreath deposit. They weren't sent and I don't understand why. He was not a representative of the rest of the parties. It was only the Greek solution. And, of course, this is surprising because in Austria, Minister Kurts, Claudia Tanner, the Minister of National Defence, the Mayor and Governor of Vienna held a wreath event and parade. You know that? In Austria! In the European Austria. I'm not telling you in Uganda. I'm not telling you in Iran, where it's a Taliban, they're extreme. I'm telling you, Austria. They did three days ago. Three days ago! He called me friend. You look into it, too. Look and find it. Of course, because you may not believe, here you are, my Minister, look. Crazy and traitors who did yesterday's marches. Here's it: ERICKA, today's normal course. Will you forbid it, Minister? Will you tell Chrysochoid to ban the event? Tell me about it. Athens was filled with posters. Will you forbid her? Will your Minister order not to take this course, why does he transmit the coronary? Oh, no. I'm sure not. To close, I want to read something from Giannara, Minister, that you adore him. You have him a weakness of Yannara, don't you? I remember we used to talk about Yannara together. I read to you: 'The state has continued.' The phrase speaks and acts as a political protagonist, but with an unequivocal answer to the question: Continuity of the state is the continuation of the expressed will of the citizens, or the continuation of Parliament's decisions, voted in favour by a qualified majority? The logic of obsessing the state's 'continuation' is entirely useful. What validity are international agreements signed by a marginal majority of Parliament, with the obvious possibility of a next government, legally elected as well, denying the agreement and canceling it? Of course, honest and not presumptuous democracies appeal to referendums on major issues." Yannaras, chosen. My Minister, the past, the past we talked about, about Macedonia, is not too far away, about what the system does. Sadly, a time has come when everyone serves or serves the system, even when he is wrong. At this point in time, I think we're making criminal mistakes. Just one example and I close here. Minister, six nautical miles or twelve? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u12	Please prepare the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Loverdo, would you like something? Here, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u15	I would ask my fellow parliamentary representatives and you to take the lead, because at 11 a.m. Mr. Dendias has invited our party to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for information.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u16	I've got a minister, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u17	What do you want me to do? If you want me not to go to your colleague, I won't go. 10:00 was SYRIZA, 11:00 is us. If you don't like this, I won't go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u18	But it's not mandatory...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u19	What am I supposed to do now? Tell me you don't want to work with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Loverdo, as far as I've seen, they don't accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u21	They won't accept it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u22	So Mr Skourletis will be ahead of him for five minutes, with the tolerance that the Bureau has always shown, and immediately thereafter you. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know and heard during the debate in committee, the agreement with the Russian Federation is signed with the Ministry of Education. And that is what is commonly said, for matters relating to research and technology to be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. On the occasion of today's contract, I would like to raise the question of why you have chosen this incomprehensible arrangement, to transfer the General Secretariat of Research and Technology from the Ministry of Education, from the universities, from their natural space, under the Ministry of Development. Of course, beyond our agreement on both conventions, you know that we were witnessed yesterday by a new negative record. The cases seem to be hiking. The increase is exponential. It also happens in the rest of Europe. Only in the rest of Europe seems to be different reflexes. Yesterday Italy announced a free test. Collaborations go out to the squares, go to workplaces and run free tests. You, in addition to those few of the public structures in some squares, which do nothing to meet the specific needs, why do you not do something like that and why do you still refuse to prescribe the tests? So simple. Why are you subjecting the Greek family to this expense, when she sees her income falling day after day? Or are you happy as Minister of Development with what we see on the market? Did you see what happened to the "VENETIS" chain? He's closing five stores. The reason is high rents than the company says. We have tabled a concrete proposal to support the affected enterprises and to cover 40% of the rent by the state. It is said that this proposal that came to the government has stopped at the banks because they do not want to open the rent reduction dance, because many of the properties are linked with mortgage loans. What's gonna happen anyway? What about the interests of the banks? The banks? Banks, which have increased their liquidity by fifty-six billion in 2020, have only placed on the market by means of loans and, of these ten, only five have been directed at five companies. Do they play their part? And that's not enough, Minister. Let me tell you another issue of your responsibility. In insurance companies, at the same time as promoting the privatization of subsidiary insurance, you give them the right unilaterally to increase premiums for insured persons. I am referring to private insurance companies. Will you let that happen, or will you stop it? Who do you work for? Because for the workers, you don't work. You've left them in their luck. But even in specific cases, where you take the lead, such as the Scaramaga shipyards - you have a co-responsibility there - we see from the notice issued that there is no mention of jobs, no mention of any protection for workers. So what are you doing? Who are you working for? You're not working for the workers. For individuals who own private health structures you work. You don't work for a lot of people. You leave him and he is stacked in public transport, while you are on the run and you have included private buses through the CATES which are inappropriate. The doctors tell you this every day, the infectious ones. What's the deal? Are we going to watch an increase in cases day after day? And at the same time, do we think that by giving two million more, in addition to twenty, to the media, can we put the problems under the carpet? Is that actually your intention? A virtual reality? A figurative - "angel" falsely defiled world? Problems are a lot. Too much. You are not allowed to keep walking on this slippery road. I am waiting, Minister, for a specific comment on these issues. It is not just our demand, it is our demand here, but we think we are mediating a demand from the overwhelming majority of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. And I give the floor immediately to the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I do not understand the previous behaviour, of course, and it is the first time this has happened in Parliament. There should be an urgent political obligation and colleagues should not be facilitated. But it's okay. We've seen everything, after all. Look, Mr. President. Greece has been facing the problems that Turkey has created for a year, as problems of another quality. I keep saying that there are no more provocative issues, but aggression issues that form very dangerous conditions. This problem is facing the country along with two others, the pandemic and the economic recession. The three issues together form a very difficult agenda for our country, which, as soon as it came out of a nearly ten-year crisis, has been in trouble with all of this. The worst thing that can be done at this juncture is to demagogize foreign policy issues. In fact, I do not understand - and I do not say rhetoric, I say this on clear rational terms - how Greece's foreign policy will be shaped on the basis of Turkey's foreign policy. I don't understand that. The Arab world has its internal problems. They're familiar with us. Their contradictions are very great, especially with regard to Qatar and the rest of the Arab world. The thirteen conditions set by the four Arab countries in Qatar, including the closure of the Turkish base, are well known. These terms are well known and the crisis that has been created in recent years has been known since 2017. The internal correlations of the four - Saudi Arabia, Egypt among them - therefore, internal conflicts or alliances must also be known to us to make such positions. When we do not understand the role of Emirates, why it seems that the role of Emirates and the relations of Emirates with Kuwait, which are very intense, are not understood. When we don't know these things or know them and ignore them, because other things we have in mind, it's easy to make 'external policy excursions'. We count the miles, whatever side this comes. In fact, I was surprised at the vote of censure we were discussing here, a Minister of Government, Mr Chrysochide - PASOK - said something about foreign policy, and Mr Ragus answered him on the part of SYRIZA - PASOK - and I said as a normal PASOK 'children, these are not here'. We cannot, Mr President, go on like this. There must be potential. You'll tell me, in the House, everyone says what they want and nobody forbids it. Clearly. I am the last person to say "you are not entitled to speak", as has been said in the past. But the solutions are easy, because we sign and ratify and ratify an agreement with Kuwait which is his relations with Turkey, alpha, beta and gamma. Has President Erdogan visited it? Has he signed a defence cooperation agreement? Turkey will not say what we will do, firstly, and secondly, Mr President, are so specific, but relations within the Arab world, friendships, alliances and contradictions, which we must be very careful about. We must not forget - and it is my last phrase - that a key factor, which keeps President Erdogan in the aggression of the level we have met so far and does not go any further, is that Greece also has close cooperation in the defence sector - and I hope that a defence cooperation agreement will be signed as quickly as possible - with France, but at the same time this alliance of the two is enriched by the addition of Emirata and Egypt. He needs some attention, and I'm closing up with it. The intellectual "political excursions" are easy in foreign policy matters, but it is also very easy to make mistakes and prudence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say about the memoranda that we are voting on today, because it is obviously in our interest that any cooperation is such a greater force and a more advanced one, such as Russia's difference in the field of science and, in particular, innovation, which is an area where small countries like us can find real opportunities, which is why we are voting in favour of. And to justify here and here the "present" telling us, apart from what Mr. Logiades said, our special speaker, that Kuwait, among other things, I imagine that the main part of the know-how that can offer us is mines and other such sufferings for any place and much more for our kilowatted place. Mining we don't want to. We have long said to let the hydrocarbons stay where they are. And so we very much fear that Kuwait does not have too many things to offer us. Still, he's got money, but he's been using it the way we've known all these years. No creative way and no way that eventually ends up with these funds for the benefit of any popular layers in any part of the world. I take this opportunity, Mr President, since we are here and I think - and I think we all think - that the major issue at the moment in the political scene of Greece, the country and the whole continent is none other than the horn pandemic. And since he is the dear Minister, Mr Georgiadis, here next to me - I do not have the privilege of seeing him very often, because he works very hard, I do not mean anything else - Mr Georgiadis, I heard you say the day before, a week ago, to Mr Evangelatos, on the show of one of these systemic wonderful channels of the parasitic oligarchy that only host you, I mean you and SYRIZA at one time, I heard you say that the pandemic explosion will take place as soon as the meeting on the announcement of the ruling in the Golden Dawn trial was announced. You said, in short, if I remember correctly, "we expected it, we noticed it and saw it confirmed". Mr. Georgiadis, apart from the fact that it cannot be proved scientifically by anything you say, do you really find a oxymoil to invoke this as a cause of the pandemic's elevation, when 7.00' with 9.00' every morning is a million such concentrations within our electricity or on our metro or on every bus? Do you really think that's the problem in Greece? I'll only give you one clue, which is - I think - very interesting. You celebrate - after a century, I would say, because about so many you rule, with all your variations - because you managed to make less than a thousand intensive in this place. Bergamo, in which we saw the convoys with the dead last year, is a town, Minister, a hundred and twenty - eighty - seven inhabitants. It has a thousand hundred and fifty intensive ones and it has not been able to stop the horror we have seen. Indeed, in a country of ten million, you nineteen, that is, a thousand sculptures - apologies, for the expression - intensive ones, do you think we will be able to resist? We won't resist. The Prime Minister every time from this Step - or from that Step - says the blurred figure that we have hired about three thousand seven hundred doctors and sanitaries. It is not at all polite - I do not want to say that it is shameful - that the Prime Minister of the country does not have the freeness of looking at the Greek people in the eyes and saying: 'How many are doctors. They're four hundred thirty. And all the others are all sanitary." And these four hundred thirty doctors who risk their lives - and they already risk it, because they are infected - have been hired for one or two years. Eight months now, we hear a wish that many of them will be permanentized. We want, as part of parliamentaryism in Greece, to be told by the Prime Minister, at last, how many of them will become permanent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish right away, Mr President. It is clear, therefore, that for the coronary it is not the decision in the Golden Dawn trial. It is not the twenty thousand against you or the seventy thousand against us - you see, I do not hide it that we were many more, we gathered there to celebrate the victory of democracy - but it is the fact that you systematically wanted to devalue the health system so that you turn citizens into private health. You want to privatise - and you have already started it on the supply, cleanliness - the National Health System. Your plans have, however, been ruined, as pandemic is only dealt with worldwide by national health systems, since parasitic oligarists - the two, three very large in Greece - are looking at their pocket and wallet and not at all the Greek people. Only the National Health System was left to look at the Greek people. I wanted to say to you - and I am not saying it - that it is not nice for you, who are so smart and experienced politician, to go out on the channels and have such a funny fig sheet, that it is because it is the gathering for the announcement of the trial decision. You know it, and I know it can't be your fault. It could be due to a percentage of less than 1%. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. We close with the position of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Christos Boukokouros. Immediately afterwards, the Minister will take the floor, Mr Georgiadis, to close the debate. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you from the outset for your minimal tolerance, because several important issues have been raised by the opposition parties. Of course, both the issues of the pandemic and the questions of sanctions for contracts, which we are signing today, are important in the way they were raised by the opposition parties. Let me start with the issues of pandemic. We are told by the honourable Members that many tests are not carried out. The country has provided eight hundred thousand fast tests, which have been distributed to EGE and to all health structures in the country and have been exploited for several days. That is why we see massive, free tests being carried out, to a much greater extent than many European countries. They told us that other countries have better reflexes. Just yesterday, in her interview, Chancellor Merkel said that no more than three out of four cases in Germany can be detected. In other words, Germany has lost tracking game. The German Chancellor also said, Mr President, that in a few days' time Germany will not be able to accommodate all the patients. Where does it appear to you that the Greek Government is handling the pandemic worse than other countries? Of course, the situation is difficult. Of course, cases have an exponential increase, but it does not seem from anywhere that the country is dealing with worse than other countries this unprecedented pandemic. We are constantly listening to the argument about means of transport. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we would all like to have a bus for ten passengers and a room for fifteen children in schools. That would be the best. The question is whether it is possible and possible. Let me ask you one more question, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to Athens and Thessaloniki, we have an outbreak of cases that are proportionally the same in Kozani, Serres, Ioannina, which is already in lockdown. And that's where the public transport is responsible? And in these areas about the exacerbation of cases, is the public transport responsible? For the sake of exponential growth, much can be said in both Europe and Greece. But we better listen to experts, because this exponential increase is happening. The only good thing is that we are in a better position in terms of cases than other European countries of the same or larger population. I think the pandemic is not even offered for controversy. It is good to hear the advice and guidance of experts and to try both individually and collectively to implement them in the struggle that we are all doing together - I want to believe - to limit pandemic. From that point on, why are we signing the contracts? Mostly, the objections are for contracts with Qatar and Kuwait. We all know that Qatar has recently been attached to the Turkish chariot. Since 2017, there has been an intra-Arab controversy. The rest of the Gulf countries took an embargo on Qatar and Qatar came closer to Turkey. What no fellow Members have said is that this is a sporting agreement. Sports activities haven't stopped. They become like they do in pandemic conditions. We have heard criticism here, however, because we are signing a sporting agreement with Qatar, which we are also signing with Bulgaria and the United Arab Emirates, while there are inter-union struggles between Greece and Turkey, Greek athletes are getting transcripts to Turkish clubs. How are we going to stop such a deal? In any case, the easy thing is to say that we are giving Turkey allies. The hard thing is to disconnect them and bring them to the diplomatic wall that Greece has built. If we say that Qatar has now come to Turkey - and indeed is the only economic lung in Turkey in a winter-like Turkish economy - and we leave it there and do not try, both us and the Arab world, to bring it back to normality, in addition to what is rightly attributed to it in the last three, four years. We're giving Qatar away? We're giving Kuwait away? Here, the Greek Government, Mr President, makes a huge struggle and has built a diplomatic wall, involving European countries, the United States to a large extent and many important representatives of the Arab world, such as Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. And Kuwait has relations with the United Arab Emirates and the Gulf countries. Can we say this lightly in the heart, thinking internally of exercising foreign policy and heterogeneously by Turkey's diplomatic policy, leading the country to a diplomatic inertia? Our diplomacy must be active, and where it is difficult and there it is trying to build alliances, even in the most difficult, because times are difficult, because we have to deal with Turkey's aggression. It is easy to do from the security of Parliament or the foreign policy keyboard. In the field, however, things are very difficult. I conclude by saying that both the pandemic and our national issues demand a massive internal front. If we are all involved in this front with our differences, ideological and political issues - I am not saying that these differences should be eliminated - then these two major issues which concern and affect the Greek people, first and foremost, will be dealt with in a more adequate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u30	And we thank Mr. Bukouros. The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to answer, because I like that, to all the questions that have been asked, to everyone separately and with evidence. I will agree with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. It's not a time to fight. However, because we have our ideological and political differences, it is important to know. First of all, I would like to reply to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman. I am not talking about sanctions because you support them. Besides, you signed them. Don't waste time on that. I will respond to the financial measures we have taken and their impact and whether or not the government has operated handsomely. Firstly, I come to the liquidity measures that have been taken in the last nine months. EUR 3.1 billion has been put on the market through the three cycles of the repayable advance to date. By the end of the year, this will reach about 5 billion. EUR 3.1 billion has been allocated through the Guarantee Fund and EUR 1.7 billion has been allocated through TEMPUS II. Already, now that we are talking, the second guarantee package has started another EUR 3.1 billion by the end of the year and another EUR 1 billion by the TBR. In other words, 11 billion euros have been given to the market so far and by the end of the year this will exceed EUR 15 billion. There is no doubt that the largest liquidity ever provided to the Greek economy since our accession to the Eurozone at least has been provided. Obviously it is also a response to the greatest crisis faced by the Greek, European and world economy because of the pandemic. So saying we haven't taken measures, so lightly the heart, it's a little unfair. Details will be given on Friday to the question that SYRIZA has submitted to us for the NRP and everything else. Now, do these measures have a positive effect or did they go to the rain? Ladies and gentlemen, when our country achieves a success, do not be petty, just because Mitsotakis is now in the prime ministership. Didn't you see EUROSTAT's announcement just the day before yesterday? Greece was the country with the lowest loss of jobs due to COVID throughout the European Union. The smallest one! When the pandemic began, the view in Brussels and the first communiqués of the Commission - on which SYRIZA celebrated - was that Greece would have a high public debt and a high dependency on tourism. EUROSTAT is coming today and says that Greece has finally had the lowest impact. And why did it have the least impact? Because all the measures that I have mentioned are linked to the maintenance of jobs, apart from the guarantee programme. So what did we do with our measures? We did not only give liquidity to the market, we put liquidity on the market and we secured hundreds of thousands of jobs. And who says that? The channels we feed, Velopo and SYRIZA? That's what EUROSTAT says! What about EUROSTAT bought from New Democracy and the Pesha List? If we cannot have a serious debate between ourselves in these critical times, we are unworthy of having these positions. It is clear, therefore, that so far the Greek economy has been better able to withstand what everyone believed at the start of this crisis. That is why Greece's borrowing rates are the lowest in its history. We are pleased to borrow on the markets with interest rates, which we would not even see a year ago. Fifteen-year bond with 1.5%? Hundreds of bills with negative interest rates? Ten-year bonds with 0.80%? Where have we seen this in Greece before? This has happened, because the markets have appreciated - and they are paying for it with money - that the Greek Government has so far been stressing it - has also successfully dealt with the pandemic in the economic field. Now, as far as the second one is concerned, if we run a free test and so on, first of all, Mr Skourletis, you have to decide on SYRIZA. We're doing a free test. The EGE's mobile units have been doing tens of thousands of free tests for many months and a total of more than thirty thousand in Greece a day. And I reply to Mr Velopoulos. Take note, however, now of what we are going through: The EGE programme with mobile units to do the free tests in the various squares that we are going to go to, in the workplace and others, is a programme drawn up through the ESRB by the Ministry of Development in collaboration with the EGE and the relevant process took place in April and May. When this programme was announced, your favourite newspaper "DOCUMENTO" - not you personally, of SYRIZA - and your beloved Minister of Polakis had come out with most extensive communications about the EGE and ESDP scandal, spending money on mobile units. Well, once we have to come to an agreement! Do we have to act or shouldn't we? When we do the actions, it's a scandal. When you think we're not doing the actions, it's a scandal again. Hey, we need to come to an understanding somewhere! Free testing is done thousands of days ago, and as you know, a few days ago the World Health Organisation itself, by an official announcement, the Director of Europe, Mr Hans Cluger, made a press release and said that we congratulate Greece as one of the countries that had the most effective strategy for dealing with pandemic. Buyed by Hans Clugger and the WHO on the Pecha list? Can we once be serious? And I now come to the general debate to go after sanctions. When we talk about a global crisis, and I hear you say things, as if Greece was the only one on the planet, I really am. Imagine there was only this pandemic in Greece and there was no measure of comparison with other countries! Do you not know, ladies and gentlemen, that thankfully to date, mutatis mutandis, Greece goes much better than other countries? Yeah, we're going better than other countries. That's the answer. This should not be misery between us or micropsy, because we do not only go better as a government, we go better as a country, as a society. We're going better. And now we are in a critical phase, Mr Grigoriadis, and I come a little bit to the part you have told me, to look at the evidence on the intensive issue. Now listen. I still don't like misery and misery. The table I will tell you is 2019, because 2020 does not exist, as long as we are in progress. Greece has an average of half of its intensive treatment beds than Italy. Italy has 12 beds per 100 thousand people, Greece has 6.6 beds per 100 thousand people. These figures are 2019. That was also the case with the previous government and with it before the pandemic began. Today, as you know, Greece has climbed about nine beds per hectare of thousands of people. And as the Prime Minister has announced, the goal is to be on the European average by the end of this year, namely on the 12 beds. Are we the worst, as you presented it? Under Greece, do you know which countries are on the international table? If you want, I'll send him to you. I found him on Google a while ago. Under Greece in the intensive sector is Sweden, it is New Zealand, Scotland, Wales. I'm sorry, don't make a fuss all day, like it's all your fault at last! Stop that thing! You've become the national grump! Greece achieves great things. Did we want more? Of course, all of us would like more, but the fact that Greece is doing well must give you feelings of joy and not regret, Mr Gregoriadis! Now we're going to the sanctions with my friends there of the Greek Solution. I listened to Mr. Velopoulos with great attention, he put a lot of things. Well, all the analysis about the list of Pechas and others reminds SYRIZA is a little "decadence". I'm going to say something at the end on staff, but we're going a little bit to the most important. How about Mr. Villard and Mr. Velopoulos? You say that you are voting in favour of Clearing up with the Russian Federation - very good indeed! - Are you voting against Kuwait Clearance on what grounds? That Kuwait has a defence cooperation agreement with Turkey. So, since Kuwait has a defence cooperation agreement with Turkey, we exclude it, we do not want to take jobs in a Greek company. And Mr Velopoulos said, "We don't care about Greek businesses taking jobs in Kuwait." That's what I must say. I can blame Mr. Velopoulos for many things, but that he understands from money and his business that I recognize from his time-consuming course in his life. Not to understand that taking a Greek business abroad and bringing foreign currency to Greece is for the benefit of the Greek economy and the Greek workers, we will not explain this to him. I'm sorry, but I'm not gonna waste any time on it. But let's go to the core of the argument. On the same day you are voting in favour of Clearing up with the Russian Federation, but you are voting against Kuwait. What for? Because of defensive co-operation. You're not telling me, have you heard which country sells S-400 to the Turks? Have you heard? It's called Russia. Have you heard what exactly the test was aimed at ten days ago, which is also the threat of sanctions from the United States, with Russian technicians? F-16! Do you know which country and who were the Russian technicians targeting with the Turks with the S-400? For Greek Air Force and Greek pilots, for these Russian technicians S-400 trained the Turks ten days ago. Didn't it bother you? Do you not know that Russia is building a nuclear power plant in Turkey, with what this implies for the future of Turkey's ability to obtain nuclear weapons? You don't know them? Isn't that what you're hurting? Did Kuwait hurt you? So be a little serious at last. Whether you are consistent with your arguments and say that those who have defence relations with Turkey are enemies and you will come out to denounce Russia first - this is a difficult thing for Mr. Velopoulos and the Greek Solution, because the Greek Solution has made careers as a friend of Russia and considers that Putin is the alternative to America, and so that makes you a difficult one - or, if you accept Russia having such hard and narrow defence relations with Turkey, you will stop the "hairs" for Kuwait. So let's go talk about the point. Clearing the deal and with Kuwait is important. Why is it important? And I reply a little to Mera25. Maybe you should've figured that out. I have caused many times in this House - Mr Arsenis is not here, he is asking me such kinds of questions - to tell me what he thinks is right. Mia! Tell me, Mr. Arsenis or Mr. Gregorydis or Mr. Logiades, an investment that is welcome. Which one do you like? Let's just show her not to talk about another. So far, I have received ten questions from Mr Arsenis, for all the investments you do not like, that is, all! Why do we care about Kuwait, Mr. Gregriadis? Because it has decided to rebuild, reshape the economy and infrastructure. He wants to build a new Kuwait state his leadership by 2035. To achieve this, it will spend hundreds of billions of dollars. And yes, we who believe in capitalism want Greek businesses to get a share of these hundreds of billions. Now, you of Mera25 and of Greek Solution want these billions to get everything else! Would the patriotic position, Mr Villardo, be: Did Turkey get out of Kuwait and we only have a few hundred million? How are we going to work, Minister of Development, so that we too can get a greater share of Kuwait so that all of Turkey does not get it? Why not go there Greek businesses do not benefit Greece, it benefits Turkey, which you are allegedly fighting! Because that's how Turkey has more space to get more money there. It's just so practical and logical! On staff now, to close this too. And I answer SYRIZA. He commented similarly on the Greek solution. Yesterday some people were invited to testify wreaths, despite government bans, because of the national anniversary. And I said, speaking on the terms of yesterday's national anniversary, that we are talking about a national battle, because today Greece - don't deceive yourself - is giving a great battle to avoid the general lockdown. And why is this battle a national and a big one? Because, obviously, if we do not avoid general lockdown, the damage to our economy will be fundamental and many people will find themselves in a very difficult position and many businesses will have a problem of survival and many people will lose their jobs. So, those who, in fact, are interested in not losing jobs, so as not to shut down businesses, so that people do not find themselves in a failure to pay their debts, we are interested in Greece not being financially destroyed, so avoiding the overall lockdown. So whoever genuinely loves homeland does not make smart. It participates, while respecting the measures in this national effort, because the evolution of this national effort will depend on Greece's power or not over the next few years. Anyone who does not understand that does not participate in the national effort. And under the terms of yesterday's national anniversary those who do not participate in the national effort are traitors, because they do not participate where everyone else is involved, in order to achieve the salvation of the patron! So today, what the government does, not the government, but the Greek people are trying, following the opinion of experts, to take difficult measures, unpopular measures, unpopular measures, but unfortunately - as the pandemic situation has come - to avoid a great deal of damage to its economy. This will be achieved by Greece, if we are all serious about and adhere to the measures. If we stick to them, we'll make it. And our very best position to date will be preserved, maintained, achieved - well with things - in the vaccine and we will be able to turn into the least harm to everyone else, and we will look to the future with optimism. If each of us, invoking conspiracy theories and various other unscientific thoughts, makes their heads and one sticks to each other, no matter what the government does and take whatever measures at the end - because the good of public health is the highest - we will get to measures that will damage us financially. And this is our national duty to avoid this, Mr Velopoulos, and gentlemen of the Greek Solution. I hope you understand that. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, obviously, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you should also listen to some unpleasant things. Since I hear very often, fellow SYRIZA Members express their concern, for example, that divine readmission must be stopped, because by divine relay and divine society the coronary is transmitted and you have the great anxiety that the coronary does not pass through the churches - legitimate concern - obviously your concern is generally not to spread the coronary and not specifically within the church. So, obviously, a gathering, regardless of the reason why it takes place, tens of thousands of people without protection measures on each other, obviously favours the extension of the virus and we do not understand it. So we will either all be serious and follow the measures, we will wear our masks, we will keep our distances, which are the major ones - because that is the major one, it is not just the mask, it must not be one on the other - and we shall go across, as I have told you, and then we will have all the time to disagree as far as we want. But now the major point is to ensure that the virus is properly spread. This is the national effort. That is what the government stands for, that is what the Greek people stand for, and that is not just us. You have to put your back on, too, we have to put everyone back on it. And we'll do it! I'm very optimistic! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u33	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u34	Wait a minute. Let me say a general remark. Despite the fact that no one has been prevented from talking about other issues, which, in any case, if the Rules of Procedure are strictly respected, this is not so good, yet Parliament is a free move. On the other hand, I personally distinguished political positions expressed by each party. I have also seen political responses from the side of the Parliamentary Representative of the government, but also from the Minister. Nevertheless, he has asked for the floor and I will only give Mr Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution, to explain not the disagreement - he disagrees with the government or disagrees with the government with Mr Velopoulos - but with what the staff lies. I will give the floor for just a minute to you, Mr Gregoryides, tell you where the staff are. I would like to ask you to refer to the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure in order to see what the staff consists of. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u35	I am sure that, when your patriotism is questioned, the reproach is personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u36	I didn't say about yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u37	You questioned him, and I'll prove it to you because I'm saying it. So listen. I can also very easily tell you "American lagoon" and "American dolo", but to let it be understood that we have very good relations with Russia, and you know personally that it is a story, we will discuss it along the way. I have a few answers for you. You spoke with signal leaps, Mr. Georgiadis. Big sign language jumps. For example, is it an investment by a Greek to invest in Kuwait with an offshore company? Who are you mocking in here? It's an investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u38	Mr. President, listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, just a moment to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u40	No, I have to do my job myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u41	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u42	Under the Rules of Procedure, I need you to tell me where the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u43	The Regulation applies only to the Greek Solution!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u44	That is a political disagreement you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u45	Political disagreement to question another's patriotism?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u46	It's not personal. Well, warm request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u47	I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u48	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u49	I would therefore remind the Minister of something that constantly avoids saying that when comparing the unemployment rates of a country that has 40% unemployment with another with 10% unemployment, you are drawing the wrong conclusion. You said that we have the lowest rates of job losses. What is the unemployment rate in Greece, gentlemen, for young people? You know? You don't know. Calculate the percentage of Germany and draw conclusions. What are you talking about here in the world? I mean, all right, you might be blaming us and saying whatever you want, but with the numbers, you won't play in here. Secondly, I told you that Kuwait gave Turkey cash. Cash, Cash, Cash. Do you know what Cash means? That's where we disagree. As for Russia, let me tell you something very simple. And we have S - 300. The Westerners in Eastern Thrace also do a nuclear plant, Mr. Colleague, if you think that we are friends of the Russians. The Westerners, your friends, give 'Leopard', the Germans, your friends. The Spaniards fly a plane, the Italians give for helicopters. What do you want to tell us? That you're more Greek than you are with Germany and we're less saying we're on our own? We're on our own, I keep saying it. Alone. And I am closing here, Mr President, and I apologise for the misuse of time. I asked you something, Mr Colleague: will you cancel the course today, yes or no? You told them non-patriots, you told them - along with the Gospel - that you had no brains, you told them what you wanted the Greeks. Will you cancel today's course? Outside the courtroom, you were, sir, your party with your principal! Outside the courtroom was the director of your party! And 17 November will you do the same? No, you won't do the same, because you're afraid, you're "fake-a-fucking"! Finally, I would like to say this. I was expecting you to tell me if, after all, six or twelve miles is a potential right, but you didn't tell me. I expect you to tell me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u50	I would just like to say here that none of what has been said was personal. If you wish, I can read the relevant Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure, because I too, as President-in-Office, have to apply the Rules of Procedure. One minute is therefore available for explaining what the personal matter is. And then the President-in-Office, if a personal matter arises - and it is described in detail in the Rules of Procedure as a personal matter - gives the floor. Mr. Gregoryde, you will allow me to be strict. I give you the floor for a minute, not to say where you disagree with the Minister or with the government, etc., but to what is the personal matter. Here, you have a minute to explain what the personal matter consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. In my opinion, we have the definition of a personal issue, when a Minister of a government calls the parliamentary representative of a parliamentary group as a 'national grumpy'. It's a personal designation, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u52	I don't understand, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u53	I say, Mr President, that when a government minister calls the parliamentary representative of a parliamentary group a democratic regime - to remember that, too, that we have democracy in Greece - as a 'national groaner', it is obviously a personal designation. So I would like to say on this point that I may be a grumpy man, Mr Georgiadis, but you who are not grumpy did not answer my questions, only the one you thought is a good thing for you. My questions were very specific: How many doctors did you hire? Neither you nor any Minister of Health has ever answered this question. I'll tell you how many they are. It's under four hundred thirty or four hundred forty. Is it the gathering of the Golden Dawn trial to disperse the virus, or is it the fact that you have just opened up tourism? Finally, I would remind the Minister, Mr President, that the Greek Parliament, all of us, the Greek people, donated sixty intensive to the reference hospital. Do you know how many of them will work, according to the employees - yesterday they announced it - at the hospital? Eleven! Do you know why? Because there are no executives, intensifiers and sanitaries. These are not serious things, Mr. Georgiades. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u54	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, as far as Mr Velopoulos is concerned, I would like to say that I have never called into question the patriotism of anyone. I don't have anything with Russia. On the contrary! We're with Greece. And Greece must have good relations with both Russia and Germany and with many other countries, including Kuwait. Because the President said that I have read Thucydides, I would like to tell him that I have read Aristotle, and I pointed out the lack of reasonable sequence. It can't bother you one and it won't bother you the other. Now, why is that a personal matter, I don't know and I don't understand it. Everything else was for the show. Obviously, then, you are not disturbed by Russia's close defence relations with Turkey, but you are allegedly agitated by Kuwait, to say no to the government. Understood to some extent. However, I repeat that the hours we spend are not the hours of fighting but the hours of confession. If you understand, you show your love for Greece. If you don't understand, continue loneliness. And now I come to Mr. Gregoriadis. I recall, you are not a "national grifter", Mr Gregoriadis, you are a "grinard", because whenever I come you are always grumbling. You haven't told us a "bravo" about anything! Are we doing everything wrong? Haven't we done a good one? One! Haven't you found a good one? One!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u56	How many doctors? How many doctors, I ask!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u57	Listen! I'll come to that, too. I repeat, the World Health Organisation, the largest international organisation that is watching within each country's pandemic about what it did and what it did not do, has issued an official press release under its manager, Mr Hans Kluger, and said that it congratulates Greece, because it is the country - model of how it faced the pandemic. If you have an explanation why the World Health Organization does not agree with its working party, you should tell me. But you will allow me to tell you, as former Minister of Health, that I do not give a great deal of basis to the workers' announcements, because they too do their work, votes must be taken and they must shout. The truth is that the beds have increased very much, they are now in a thousand of the five hundred. So they have increased by 100% in these six months and we will continue to increase the beds by the end of the year. That is why, although we have a lot more cases now, the health system is still standing and will stand, I repeat if we comply with the measures. So I told you in peace. I forgot to tell Mr Velopoulos about unemployment and jobs. Here the President of the Greek Solution makes a trick, a trick. What do you mean? It is another thing about unemployment, namely how many people who did not have a job, have not been able to find a job, and another thing about how many of the people who had worked have lost their jobs or not because of COVID. It is difficult for unemployment to fall into a year of great recession, such as the one we are going through. When there is a global recession and when Greece goes for a recession minus 8%, minus 9%, it would be accumulative and contradictory for unemployment to fall. We've got a recession! So what I told you was specific. According to EUROSTAT data, Greece in the second quarter of 2020 managed to have the lowest job loss, i.e. from those who had a job, the fewer who lost their job, because of COVID, were in Greece. That is what EUROSTAT said! Although that is not a reason to say'something you have done, to do better than all the others in Europe, while we are the country with the greatest dependence on tourism', okay, for me that is just micropsy. And I close because this has also been heard - and I do not want it to pass this way, Mr President - I think that it is the tourism sector that is the way to raise the pandemic and the uncontrolled way that tourism has opened up. Evidently you missed, Mr. Gregoriadis, and I understand that I am telling you things that do not please you. We are the country where we have an increase in cases now, in November in fact, when tourism is practically over. The others had an increase in cases since July and August. So you only understand from what I told you that the dependency of tourism and increased cases is completely unrealistic. Secondly, you know better than anyone, or you should know, that Greece has applied the most advanced system of artificial intelligence at airports, sampling for the tests, which half the world's countries have asked for, and which was judged in practice by the most successful in the world and has helped us to control the pandemic in Greece. And thirdly, you cannot have seen the "TUI" that has come out and said that the only country in Europe that remains safe to go is Greece. Is everyone on the Pecha list, Mr. Gregoryade? But what's that list of Pecha? It buys the World Health Organization, buys the 'TUI', buys EUROSTAT! Hey, if there's such a big Pechas, we can make him an emperor! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u58	We close with the Secretary for Research and Innovation, Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Christos Dimas. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Today the National Parliament ratifys two important transnational agreements, with Russia in the field of research and technology and with Kuwait in industrial cooperation. I would like to speak a little bit, because I think it is my duty to inform the House of these two important agreements, and I would like to give you some particular information on the agreement with Russia. The Greek-Russian cooperation in research and technology is based on the bilateral agreement on economic, industrial, technological and scientific cooperation signed in Athens on 30 June 1993 and entered into force a few months later. Three research and technology cooperation protocols were signed with Russia since then. The first on 18 May 1999 identified the framework and procedures for the forthcoming joint tenders between the two states, the second was signed in 2002 in Moscow, where as a result of the Protocol, some nineteen joint projects of a total budget of nearly EUR 400,000 were approved and the third protocol was signed in December 2004 in Athens and sixteen projects of a total budget of EUR 236,000 were approved. In 2014 - there was a small gap, as you can see - there was a joint meeting again between the working parties of the two relevant Ministries in Athens and proposed for the future announcement of scientific areas, humanitarian sciences, nanotechnology, information and communication technology, environmental research and energy. A year later, in 2015, a new joint meeting of the working party of the two relevant ministries was held, and on the Greek side two further themes were proposed and accepted for quantum technologies and humanities, with emphasis on cultural heritage. In April 2016, a memorandum of cooperation on quantum technologies was signed and the new agreement was completed and signed in November 2016, which will govern the implementation of research and technological activities between the two countries, following its ratification today by the National Parliament. I would like to take note of the great delay in ratifying the agreement. Despite the fact that the General Secretariat of Research and Technology had completed all the necessary steps to ratify, in 2019, it was informed by the HSY that the agreement, while it had been forwarded to the General Secretariat of the Government to be promoted for ratification, was somewhat curiously lost. A new round of ministerial signatures was therefore launched in order to re-emphasise the ratification of the parliament. The General Secretariat of Research and Technology has again completed all the procedures for collecting the necessary documents from the financial services of the Ministry of Education at the time, but the ratification has not been completed until the July 2019 elections, so we must start the process again from the General Secretariat of Research and Technology from the beginning. The two sides worked out a memorandum of understanding for their cooperation in the field of the development and exploitation of laser installations, with effect from 5 Watt and 6 Watt, to combine the efforts of the Hellenic Republic and the Russian Federation to jointly develop and operate an international research infrastructure in XCELS. The fourth joint notice was published in December 2016 and concerned the quantum technologies sector, with a total budget of EUR 2 million and approved four sub-projects, which are implemented by the joint bilateral scientific teams. These projects will be completed in the next year, 2021. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I need a minute, Mr President. We note that there was a great delay in launching projects - joined in February 2018 - due to the overall delay in the tenders that existed at the time in the information system for State aid. In time, the two countries meet within the JEP Research and Technology Working Party, which meets every six months and informs each other about research and technology, the activities of each country. Finally, the two countries participate and cooperate in the multilateral collaborative work of ‘ERA.Net RUS Plus’ between the European Union and Russia, which concerns research and technology. As far as the present is concerned, it has been agreed that there should be a fifth notice together with selected thematic priorities. The total budget on the Greek side through the PAENEC will be EUR 7.5 million per proposal. On this issue, an agreement was reached in March 2019 and a meeting of representatives of the two Ministries in Athens, where it was agreed to issue a notice in the last quarter of 2019 in the thematic areas: nanotechnology, information and communication technology, environment and sustainable development, humanitarian sciences, health and pharmaceuticals, energy, cultural heritage. We discussed these issues with the Russian Ministry in May 2020, with a view to publishing a joint notice in September 2020. However, the Russian side informed that it was not ready for the announcement of the declaration, as there were delays in budget allocation and because of the koruna pandemic. We therefore agreed to come back and discuss the matter again before the end of 2020. For our part, we have informed the Russian side of the restrictions set by the timetable for implementation of the PAENEC, and we believe that we will be able to find a very good solution. In conclusion, I should like to say that as far as the agreement with Kuwait is concerned, it is an important first step in developing even stronger links to economic and industrial cooperation. Let us not forget that Kuwait is a country with very important economic activity, and only for the benefit of Greece is to be able to strengthen these relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Development is being declared a final one, and they will be voted on separately. There will be two votes. I say that so that the rapporteurs do not leave. We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: 'Repeal of the memorandum between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait in the field of industrial cooperation'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u61	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u62	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u63	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Repeal of the Memorandum between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait in the field of Industrial Cooperation’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u64	We shall now proceed to the second vote. I would remind the rapporteurs not to leave because they have to sign the Minutes. So we move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Further to the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in Science, Technology and Innovation". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u65	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u66	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u67	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in Science, Technology and Innovation’ has been accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of it and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u68	I would once again ask the rapporteurs, along with the Secretariat, to sign the Minutes of the two votes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the rest of the bills on today's agenda. Debates and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 1. "Following the Memorandum of Understanding for Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the General Welfare, Youth and Sport of the United Arab Emirates." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Following the Memorandum of Understanding in the field of Sports between the Olympic Committee of the State of Qatar and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic." 3. ‘Sport Cooperation Protocol between the Ministry of Education and Religion, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Physical Education and Sport of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria’. The draft law was adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the ratification of the conventions for five minutes may take the floor. They may also speak for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, provided that the President of the parliamentary group does not speak. The vote on all three conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u69	The House unanimously agreed. I don't think there's anything you want to say. To proceed directly with the process, after recalling that for the first convention with the United Arab Emirates, New Democracy voted in favour, SYRIZA expressed a reservation, the Change Movement voted "in favour", the Communist Party of Greece present, the Greek Solution expressed a reservation and the Merra25 voted in favour. For Qatar, the New Democracy voted in favour, SYRIZA expressed a reservation, the Change Movement voted in favour of the "Events", the Greek Solution expressed a reservation and the Mera25 voted in favour. For the third contract with Bulgaria, the New Democracy voted in favour, SYRIZA expressed a reservation, the Change Movement voted in favour of the "Events", the Greek Solution expressed a reservation and the Mera25 voted in favour. As I said before, there will be a single debate on the three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I ask for the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u71	Those of the rapporteurs will now express their refusal or reservation. Then, if they so wish, the parliamentary representatives will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u72	I declared a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u73	Paper must come that you are a parliamentary representative from the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Kegeroglu said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u75	There is a permanent mandate from the parties - for example from New Democracy, from SYRIZA - where some parliamentary representatives have been appointed. There is no need, there are some once.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u76	It was Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Loverdus left and I'm replacing him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u77	I understand. A piece of paper has to come to us in order to be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u78	You'll be sent on paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u79	Should I bring paper or am I declared, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u80	You've been designated. We always have to keep this. When the parties have appointed two or three parliamentary representatives from the outset, there is no need for any paper. I mean, when I see Mr. Skourletis, I know there's paper that SYRIZA defines three parliamentary representatives. So is the New Democracy. He doesn't need the paper every time. However, for the parties who have appointed a parliamentary representative, when one is not for any reason present, they have the right and obligation to send to the Bureau Secretariat that "for today's sitting...". Is there any other problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I object.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u82	We shall now proceed to the rapporteur on the SYRIZA side, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, who has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate in plenary on the sanctions for the three conventions between Greece and, respectively, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Bulgaria is of two importance. On the one hand, there is the formal diplomatic dimension resulting from Article 28 of the Constitution, which provides for the integration of international law and for the signing of similar agreements. This part has been respected, as the three conventions have been presented to us, which have identical content, without, as we said before, deprive them of their interest and importance, as they include mutual exchange of managers, care and shared treatment of violence, doping, the exchange of know-how to promote sport and a number of forecasts on the adoption of best practice for sport. We also agree with their adoption, since it is a good reason to export, but also to welcome people, experiences and knowledge. The second dimension of the bills, however, is more indirect, but perhaps more revealing. The debate in the Standing Committee on Moroccan Affairs on Contracts was a good opportunity to quote the government's events on the international side - on the one hand, SYRIZA and, on the other hand, New Democracy - after 15 months of governance. For the first bibliographical section, the SYRIZA Government had reconstructed the relevant department of the General Secretariat of Sports, which was involved in inertia, setting up the Special Department for International Relations between European Politicians in Sport and Olympic Matters. He contacted and agreed with the international federations of football, which intervened and changed the scene in the respective Greek event unprecedented in the world's time. He integrated, after years of absence from the international events, Greece into the calendar of international events with the 2019 Mediterranean Games in Achaia and the Youth Pan-European Championship in Ioannina in the same year. He has taken note of the incorporation of international regulations and anti-doping obligations after a period of abandonment of the space. Legislation to facilitate sports staff, - athletes, coaches, referees, actors - so that they participate in games or preparation abroad, thus covering the institutional gap that existed. It promoted the upgrading of the BeActive programme. He created and developed Sports Expo, the sports exhibition in Thessaloniki. He studied the appointment of athletes who were distinguished in great international struggles. This was an outline of SYRIZA's contribution to the role of sport. Finally, I would remind you that in 2015 the General Secretariat of Sports was found to have very few employees, as, due to the removal of workers who had been made available by the first and second memorandums you voted on, its services had been obsolete. Labelling - so for history, we are not all the same - the officials who were persecuted by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK returned to work on SYRIZA. From the debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the following questions have been answered: First of all, in order to upgrade women to sport, as he abolished their right to claim administrative positions in the field, to respect for human rights and to take care that our country should hold when signing agreements with countries that restrict them, to establish our inadmissibility of the government to introduce a similar convention with Azerbaijan on the same day that the conflicts with Armenia started. Fortunately, the error has been corrected following the intervention of our relevant department. The question was also answered why the Minister does not represent the Greek Government in contact with the international football federations. It would be interesting to hear about once more how he stands up to this uncovered and I dare say that the Prime Minister's attitude towards his face is degrading. The same happened, without any reaction on your part, just last week, when a few hours after the announcement of partial opening of the land, the Prime Minister passed you again. Of course, to be fair here, the same removal of responsibilities is reserved by the Prime Minister to other ministers and you are not the only one, Mr Aygeakis. In fact, some have remained without a substantial portfolio of many divisions and deductions. However, deceptiveness remains. Finally, the question of Euro 2028's claim remained, as well as the 2030 World Cup from Greece, Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria. The only answer that the Minister gave us in committee was that he has not dealt with this matter nor will he do anything in that direction. In fact, he said he didn't find anything when he took over. To restore the truth, I am presenting to you in the Minutes the press release of the former Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, on 22-12-2018, where, after the Quartet of Cooperation with the countries mentioned above, the joint promotion of the proclaiming of the events is also mentioned. I also present to you a report confirming the agreement between the four countries and the communication establishing a working group on 25-2-2019 on the claim. I also present you with an announcement from the Hellenic Football Federation that confirms the contacts and processes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Instead of taking the thread from where we left it, you abandoned it. Instead of continuing the contacts of your predecessor to mobilise the services, the consular authorities, the public and private bodies, you have resolved with a "do not get bored". On the contrary, you have made too many statements and reports on the subject of possible change of seat in a football competition that was meant to take place at the place you are elected. For this international organization, you are indeed a superactor, Mr. Ausgeakis. The difference is obvious and the conclusions are made available to all Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the above problems are present and burning. The main problem, however, remains that in the New Democracy the fight against sport, the call for assistance and support remains without answer. In an Olympic year ago, with the income from pandemics and health restrictions being minimal, while costs are rising, the Deputy Minister of Sports is constantly in favour of supporting, with EUR 12 million, the unions who will be in a hurry to register in the register of the General Secretariat of Sports, to remind ourselves, which has rightly been accused, not of its substance, but of the process, content, targeting, but also of the sloppyness with which this issue has been raised. Instead of following SYRIZA's steps to make the registry a useful tool, he used it to punish, rule out and regulate the electoral landscape. That is the problem, and that is what you have no answer to, because you in sport, apparently, are interested in the election, the arrangements, the promises, the influence of the New Democracy. The others, the essentials, the essentials, the necessary, are indifferent to you. Ladies and gentlemen, today's ratification of the three conventions with the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Bulgaria is a political obligation of the country. We therefore support their vote. However, there is no general finding that the Government in international matters, even those relating to sport, follows, instead of leading, a conflict instead of shaping, begging, rather than leading. This is not the fate we want for our country and it needs to be changed soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u84	We continue with Mr. Synthraki from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. In the light of the development of friendship and cooperation between peoples and countries, we are also considering the concrete memoranda of cooperation between our country and Bulgaria, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar or any other country. We talked about it in the previous conventions. Aside that we are discussing today, for example, the strengthening of cooperation in the fields of physical education, doping, athletics, people with disabilities, the role of the so-called Olympic truce, the value of the Olympic Games as a manifestation of clear conscience, the strengthening of transparency and the democratisation of sport and the exchange of know-how for sports facilities, you realize that the Communist Party of Greece is approaching them differently and from this point of view we are voting 'partners'. And that's why? Firstly, for many years the Olympic Games have lost their meaning and role as a process of people's friendship, noble speech, competition and equal cooperation. They have nothing to do with the modern needs of the people and youth. Unfortunately, they have turned into a huge industry. This product is now called "Olympic Games" which brings hundreds of billions of dollars to the Athanasus and multinational companies working with them every year. From this point of view, therefore, there is an attempt to enjoy the role of the Olympic Games at the expense of sport and of the well-known speech. Praise the so-called Olympic truce. In practice, however, the content of this Olympic truce has been altered. In our view, it is being exploited as a means of deceiving the people, since in practice it silences the real causes of the imperialist wars, it hides the imperialist contradictions and competition for energy resources, when even New Democracy and SYRIZA are involved in these designs and lead, they are leading the way in NATO and the European Union's plans in the region. Let us remember the imperialist massacre in Yemen by the United Arab Emirates. Saudi Arabia, actively involved in the war against Syria and motivates ISIS, enjoys multilateral support from the United States, NATO and the European Union. Therefore, not only do the Olympic Games abolish wars, for fifteen - twenty days and as long as they last, but all those leading the Olympic Games are involved in the political decisions of war and military operations. Secondly, in relation to the exchange of information on the use and exploitation of sports facilities, the government and all governments in our country have too many ideas and practices to offer, when they fully adapt the maintenance and operation of sports facilities to business projects for the needs of capital, which allows sports anonymous companies to move forward in interventions which serve their own business. At the same time, with systematic subscribing and subscribing, the facilities will either be degraded or delivered to business appetites, transferring to parents and athletes, to municipalities and regions - and, in fact, without staff, without resources - a whole range of responsibilities. There is, I think, no clearer example - and the Minister knows that - from Crete, where two swimming pools in Heraklion and Chania are currently not working, as a result of a chronic abandonment with responsibility for all the governments and the current and delays in correcting all these problems. Thirdly, the multi-dimensional theme of pharmacopoeia. Of course, it is not just a sport for our country. This is an industry with huge profits, which is supported and blossomed because of the victor's unacceptable and harmful philosophy by every means imposed on sport. Who's responsible? But the system itself, which opens the ferries to the companies. The dogma of success and rewarding connections and the war of companies is the ones that bring about superhuman demands and, therefore, it is something that leads to pharmacopoeia. And, of course, in our view, the fight against pharmacopoeia and the system of values and practices that empowers and mobilizes it is identical to the struggle for another sport with principles and values, as the right of the people and not as a spectacle - a business, for their traders to speculate. This is not a simple political choice. In our view, it is a matter of life. Fourthly, the agreements discussed relate, as they say, to cooperation in the fields of physical education and education through sport. In fact, we would like you to show us how physics is promoted in our country, that is, what our country has to show in this area. The lack of basic conditions for physical education at school has always been butter at the bread of business and managers. Let us not forget on which ground they stepped out a few years ago to fund research in schools on the health situation of students. As a Communist Party we have tabled many proposals on this issue. I don't want to be more used. From that point on, we think that sport today has nothing to do with principles such as that of noble speech, the Olympic idea, the "sense of healthy in the body" and the "fight". Sport is now a business. So when the Government and the State personally refer to the social market economy in sport, they actually mean traded sport, the discharge of the state from the obligation to finance and free of charge of this social asset, the organisation of its structures in a business spirit, the ability of associations, federations, groups to set targets, and have the ability to find its own survival resources through sponsorships and companies. This objective is served by the Electronic Sports Register and the exclusion of thousands of unions, on the pretext of lack of conditions for their registration. The evidence presented by the State Secretary himself a few days ago is revealing the government's intentions. According to this, from a number of two thousand hundred and sixty unions, for which the control, he says, has been completed, both fields - that is, the racing and economic criterion of the law - the conditions for registration meet only a hundred and seventeen unions translated into 5.41%. For themselves, evidence and failure of the entire government project proves. And that's what the Minister calls success! The JRC considers that the audit is necessary and should not, however, be carried out in a vehicle of exclusion and electoral feasibility. That is why the JRC insists that all clubs which are active and participated in the activities of the respective federations, in the last year, must be included in the aid measures, without any time constraints. The government needed the Sports Registry apparently to discover the chaos. However, the reasons for this chaos in amateur sport are clearly in the policies implemented by all governments so far by New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA and again by New Democracy. They have been responsible for shrinking amateur sport, mainly through the systematic reduction of sports subsidies for years, with the ultimate aim of opening up the way for their tradition in business interests. This highlights the situation that has been shaped by the sale of sports facilities, the imposition of characters for their use and the assistance to clubs, turning sport into luxury for the people's family, which is thus called upon to put a deep hand in the pocket for this right. So when the Government refers to the social market economy, it means converting the structures of amateur sport to businesses, with professional management, flexible to meet modern market needs, as a result of modern services, quality products, which will bring enormous profits to the investors. This is therefore an entrepreneurial sector that will act with the laws of the capitalist market. For us, for our party, sport is a right for everyone and not for a few. There may be a bridge of friendship between the peoples of all the earth. Sport, like culture, is not just a luxury for the few, but a right for the many. And this phrase condenses our understanding, the concept of the JRC, the physical education and sport, but also our confrontation, if you want, with the current system, away from sponsors and advertising packages. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u86	And we close, in terms of rapporteurs and special speakers, with Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas from the Greek Solution. Then there will be the floor for any of the parliamentary representatives to ask for it. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Qatar is concerned, I will substantiate why, as a Greek solution, we have reservations about this Arab state. I will begin with the fact that Qatar's Gross Domestic Product in 2015 was only $15 billion, and today it has reached over $200 billion. It is, we would say, a country of many offshore companies. First of all, Qatar is bribed with Turkey and not only because it has bought several defence factories in Turkey today. Recently, he bought a armoured factory for $50 million, while the real value of this factory was much higher. In other words, there is defence cooperation, as Turkey has a military base in Qatar. But Qatar has created a hostile environment - and we must take it seriously - with the neighbouring states, such as Bahrain, Yemen, the Maldives complex and Saudi Arabia. Because the accusation in Qatar is that he was donating and funding terrorist organisations. Of course, Qatar came out of all this history that happened and the hostilities and the whole hostile environment that created in its neighborhood and more economically enhanced. But look at this: The first phone call that the enthusiasm, Hamad Al Thani, will be to Recep Tayyip Erdogan when Turkey has financial problems. This is because in 2015, when the Turkish pound had taken the krail, i.e. by swaps, by exchanging currencies - these are fields of our economist, Mr. Villardou, I am not an economist to analyse - helped Turkey with up to 15 billion dollars. In other words, Turkey's central bank currently has 38 billion dollars, where half of the ral is, please, Qatar. That has to be our concern. There are other elements, of course, that should give us thought when we go to ratify an agreement with a brotherly state of Turkey, which today has the largest Muslim monument in the world. However, Greece for the first time - we must say it - has made a gift that has not done so anywhere. He's donated to Qatar the decoy of the Delphi. And, in fact, it says, it will enter the Qatar metro - this has never been done - as it will be, it says, the State of culture Qatar in 2026 in Greece, but it will also start weeks of two types, namely a week of museum visits and a week of events. It seems to me, indeed, that we gave this gift of the Henihos of Delphi's baton of the Dinomedes of Sicily, which is the best and most representative in the early classical era of Greece, but it makes us impression that this premier to create these relationships with Qatar, which is currently fraternized with Turkey and which has created a hostile climate in his neighborhood, with all that that implies, as it is the principality, we would say, is a private state of offshore companies. Also, there is a lot of money laundering there from the numerous companies. First of all, of about three million people, only three hundred thousand are indigenous. However, I am concerned, you know, as Greek and all of us as Greek Solutions, these types of "investments" of Qatar, which had promised since 2011 that it would invest $5 billion in Greece. In fact, when Mr Samaras reminded you, he visited Doha in 2013, then Qatar said that with a package of $1.38 billion would help small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the backbone of the Greek economy in the memorandum. It's the Qatar. It is, of course, in his promises. However, they are investments that have never been made. Speaking of investment - Mr. Georgiadis was also a little while ago in the Chamber - the Qatar had promised that he would invest in the Greek. They never happened. Qatar also invested in the gold of northern Greece, with what this implies, with "QATAR HOLDING". But be careful now: it is the first country to produce liquefied gas and it would be very good to have the free passage from the Aegean. Because it is not a scenario, as it is a key shareholder, you know, of VOLKSWAGEN Qatar. With Article 13 of Skopje, as a enclosed country, it will have a right through the Axis of the River, which then joins the Danube, the Rhine and reaches Germany or Elbe, this transfer could take place if it signs diplomatic relations with Greece. We are concerned, however, because in the city of Misrata, military cooperation has been signed between Turkey - please - Qatar and Libya, which is opposed to Egypt, because relations between Egypt and Qatar are not good at all. Imagine that our Doha Embassy serves the Egyptians. Egyptians do not have an embassy in Qatar due to unsatisfactory diplomatic and political relations. So in Misrata there will be a naval base from Libya, Qatar and Turkey. The city of Misrata is about one hundred and seventy kilometers from Tripoli and is in a neural position. So, ladies and gentlemen, we express reservations, as the largest company in Qatar today, QATAR PETROLEUM is working with EXXON MOBIL. What does "EXXON MOBIL" mean? It is the one that has penetrated Erdogan's wells in the Aegean. A lot of questions come in. Let me remind you that Hamman Al Thani, the enthusiast, came to Greece and took just EUR 8.5 million five thousand acres, the islands opposite the Prefecture of Iotalokarnania - Mr Constantopoulos, since you are from Ietalo-Carnania - for a piece of bread, EUR 8.5 million. In fact, it says that Hamad Al Thani, this enthusiasm - because of the three million population only the three hundred thousand are Arabs, the rest are a mosaic, a puzzle, which is done there - he will take, he says, twenty-four islands, as many as his children, in Greece. If Hamad Al Thani and every enthusiasm come to buy at this low price the islands of Greece, we won't need Turkey to confront, because we won't have to be left with islands. We started from the Ionian and went by saying. I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. So we have to be reluctant to this penalty that you are going to do, gentlemen of the government. That is why we are opposed to Qatar, because its role is not clear to our national interests, by that state which is brotherly, as Turkey has even a military base in Qatar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Booba. I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today the Greek Parliament is asked to ratify three memorandums of cooperation by Greece in the field of sport, namely the United Arab Emirates, Bulgaria and Qatar. However, it cannot be stressed, as other Members have pointed out, that international agreements are once again coming with great delays. In fact, to my surprise, I have heard the Minister's prior ratification mention the same. I come to today's agreements that we are discussing. The memorandum of understanding with the United Arab Emirates was signed in Athens in 2014, the memorandum of understanding with Qatar was signed in Doha in 2013, and the protocol of cooperation with Bulgaria in 2012. So let us draw our conclusions to these great delays. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, it must be stressed that this is a legislative weakness, which we have dealt with in other sanctions, but unfortunately, to date, we have not managed to deal with. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because sport is a 'tool' for our foreign policy. Indeed, it promotes dialogue, promotes culture, builds a positive picture for the country and, above all, I would say, peace and democracy. Everyone is saying and saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the roots of sports diplomacy are in the Olympic Games. We therefore need to aim at the effective and timely activation of the agreements, because that is how they acquire, I would say, meaning and substance all this. Ladies and gentlemen, the international agreements on sports cooperation that we are considering today aim to strengthen Greece's good cooperation with the individual countries and this, of course, in the context of sports relations and issues of interest to international sport. They also provide for recognition of the value of the Olympic Games and the promotion of Olympic values, the Olympic truce and, of course, a collective consciousness. More specifically, the Memorandum of Understanding on Sport Cooperation with the United Arab Emirates includes, among other things, cooperation between the two countries in strengthening the institution of the Olympic Games, the exchange of sports officials for organising major sports events, the exchange of information on sports technology, athletic medicine, as well as the fight against sport violence and doping, which for all of us, I would say, is a wage and a purpose. It also promotes the strengthening of the position of women in sport, as well as of sport for people with disabilities, which I consider to be our duty. I come to the memorial of understanding about sports cooperation with Qatar. It includes promoting cooperation between the two countries in the field of sport and in the development of the friendship between the two countries. These objectives will therefore only be achieved through synergies, by exchanging sports delegations, the participation of athletes in competitions and events, conferences, seminars and other events, cooperation on research and development in the field of sport, as well as the transfer of know-how, I would say, and expertise gained from the 2004 Olympic Games, for the preparation, conduct and infrastructure of sports events, including FIFA World Cup 2022. It also promotes the exchange of information on sports medicine, doping control, management and maintenance of sports facilities and other issues of interest. Here, let me note that we consider it useful to exchange information, which is included in all agreements, for the management and maintenance of sports facilities an area that our country is lagging behind, and any exchange of best practices can only contribute positive benefits. In this Memorandum, a Joint Committee is also set up to monitor the implementation of the Memorandum and to draw up proposals for its better implementation. Finally, the protocol on sports cooperation with Bulgaria has been established in the same logic. This protocol contains bilateral commitments to strengthen sports cooperation between the two countries and, of course, to Physical Education, Education, Sport technology, medicine, the fight against sport violence and doping and the development of leisure sport. All three agreements therefore provide for practical details and the exchange of visits by officials and experts, and all have three years' validity. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, we are voting for all three international agreements, both with the United Arab Emirates and with Bulgaria and Qatar. In closing with the national strategies every day, ladies and gentlemen, we are increasingly seeing that it is a mistake, I would say, of the Government not to pursue a national strategy in Greek-Turkish and, of course, through the convening of the Council of Political Heads. I would remind you that it has been our request for about a year now to convene this council so that we can decide the national strategy that the country can develop. The government, however, preferred to ignore the political leaders and only to deal with experts - I would say - on Greek-Turkish. Members of the Government, Minister, you have not received a white check - I would say - from the Greek people to do and operate in this way. Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, has not been and is not like five years ago, two years ago, a year ago. Its direction and purpose is to become the Mecca of Islam. It follows a revised, neo-ethnic strategy that makes it indifferent to international law, to the international community, to the European Union and, of course, to Greece. In the face of this Turkey, which makes the Agia Sophia mosque, which calls into question our sovereign rights, which does not respect international law, which does not respect the law of the sea, which wants to make Greece a gateway to entry for jihadists in Europe, which even attacks French President McCrone, because he has spoken about the obvious, because he has spoken about international law, because he has spoken about respect for the International Law of the Sea - which cultivates intolerance and strengthens its religious fanaticism, which he finds opposing, not Mr McCron, but the whole of Europe, we Greeks ought to give an answer. And this answer must be given by a national consensus and consensus, through the national strategy that will naturally be decided by the Council of Political Heads. In fact, I would say that this decision should be a unanimous decision of the political leaders so that it is the message that we are emiting as Greece and as a Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Panos Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make a few points about sport. A few days ago in plenary we discussed the bill here - it is a law that you were proposing, which contained the crucial provision in relation to the register of sports clubs, a useful tool - as we described it - but it seems that it fails even in the field of its implementation, in practice. Because when 95% of amateur unions are not included in this register, something's wrong. Unless you want to use it as a tool for cycling and creating a statusal practice in the field of sport. But that's what you realize. It's disastrous, because the dozens of athletes, the Olympics that our country has raised, started with some amateur unions. So, see it again, because things are at risk in this area too. So I see you as a government, among other things - the others are more serious - but also in the field of sport. For how else can one interpret the issue of contradictory statements between you and the Prime Minister as to whether the fans will return to the stadiums. It was necessary, in other words, for the Prime Minister to correct you. And well, let's say that could have been just one sample of inconsistency. But it seems here, as a government, that you are losing day after day your confidence in society, a society which in the first phase of the pandemic showed an unprecedented discipline, where it followed that lockdown, so that we all win. Just this attitude of society, you are now undermining it when, in the midst of a pandemic, you bring the most recent piece of legislation, the bankruptcy code, which sends people out of their homes in the next few months, when we understand how important some are to have a roof, especially in these conditions. So you do not respond either with determination or with persuasiveness. And that, indeed, is the worst treaty, the worst message to the citizens. What happens these days - and one professor of medicine tells you after another - public transport is unthinkable. I know that today's step in SYRIZA visited the trolley and bus stations, where it found that two hundred and seventy vehicles could immediately be released with some minor repairs. What are you doing now? Do you consider as an opportunity what is now happening to open up the way to privatisation and the area of mass transport? In the first phase of your pandemic, we suggested that there should be joint committees between the Opposition and the government to see all these issues facing the health crisis, as well as issues relating to the awards due to the exceptional circumstances, but also issues relating to the hierarchy of measures. You ignored it. We have shown responsibility. You have shown irresponsibility. You have not yet started the primary health mechanism, which is the first filter to be able to dismantle the hospitals. You announced it late a few weeks ago and you still haven't incorporated this mechanism, which is exactly at this stage to assess who should be in hospitals and who can deal with the virus at home. But obviously a doctor has to judge that. I think it takes less pretension and less arrogance, otherwise really this way of exercising politics will bring, not only to you, but to society itself, the worst results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u92	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has asked for the floor. Immediately after that, Mr. Claus Grigoriadis is Mr. Grigoriadis and then Mr. Bukoros. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I have nothing to say about Qatar, the Greek rapporteur said very well, and, as we said before, we will vote in favour of the United Arab Emirates and Bulgaria agreement. I would just like to refer to a number of issues which have already been raised and should not be left in this way. The first concerns the budgetary measures taken in Greece. The Minister seems to be unaware. When we ask him, we keep asking him about budgetary measures and not loans or all the rest. These measures, according to and with international organisations, until October, were at 3.3% of our unrevised 2019 GDP, i.e. about 6.8 billion. All the rest, which he says, have no meaning and, of course, no relation to the 24.5 billion announced by the Prime Minister. According to the Seventh Assessment, for the whole of 2020 measures are calculated at 9.5 billion, without, of course, calculating the repayable advance, as this is a loan. The second issue relates to interest rates. We are constantly hearing that Greece is proud because it is borrowed at low interest rates. We have said that 6 trillion euro bonds in Europe negotiate not at positive but at negative interest rates. Also, we have said many times that it doesn't matter the nominal interest rate, but the real rate. Greece has deflation of 2.3%. The rate last borrowed was 1.2%. In this we should add the deflation of 2.3%, so we will go to a real interest rate of 3.5% for the state. This is about as much as SYRIZA borrowed, who in his time had no deflation, but inflation. The third is that no country is proud of its lending, but only when it pays off the loans. When one does not understand it, unfortunately it is something that we cannot be involved in such a process. The confidence, which has often been mentioned by government ministers, is, however, that Germany is sure that this government will do what it says and sell what we have and do not have. This is trust, and we are lending for it so far. As regards the successes of Greece, which he has said, we still do not share it without any misery, as he has accused us of. What comparison can there be between Greece, whose GDP fell by 25% in previous years, when the rest of the countries developed with 10%, i.e. when the distance between Greece and the Eurozone average was extended to 35%? Now on the question of the unemployment of COVID -19: The communication which he has just told us concerns only the unemployment of COVID -19. This unemployment in Greece is indeed better than many other countries because we were subsidising all jobs. People weren't working, we were just subsidising the jobs. And of course there is no comparison between unemployment in Greece, which has been 17%, and the rest of the countries, which are all under 10%. What comparison is there? There are some limits on unemployment. The last thing is that we always vote in the interest of Greece and not as it accused us. This is evidenced by the fact that we have also voted in favour of its own development bill. Of course, all we have not seen is investment and it is reasonable, since no problem is solved by bills. If that were the case, if all countries could solve their problems simply by billing, there would be no country with a problem. As regards the consensus and misery, which he has said again, we will say here that in the debate with the Minister of Finance, when it was reproaching him, we asked him what amount the banks absorbed from the 30 billion euros, since in the real economy only 10 billion euros were given, that is, the euro was given to the Greek banks 30 billion and in the real economy 10 billion, of which 5 billion concerned only six major businesses and the remaining 5 billion of all other small and medium-sized enterprises. We have been told here that this is a special question and off-the-spot. If that's possible! The next question we asked him was about the pillow, which is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Villardo, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u96	Now I'm going to say you're very out of the question. I beg your pardon, but you refer to the previous debate and there is no one to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u97	Mr. President, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u98	There are limits which the Bureau accepts to discuss. So, let's leave impressions and don't have any answers? Are you asking the Secretary of Sports for answers on all financials?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, Parliamentary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u100	Please limit yourself to today, because you returned to what we were done an hour ago. I'm sorry, that's because you're leaving an impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, will you allow me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u102	No, I won't leave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u103	As you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u104	I would ask you to conclude, because you have raised the last bill, unemployment, etc. Who's gonna answer you? Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u105	You don't have to. Since you're forbidden to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u106	I'm not forbidden. It's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. But, because the Step in the House is free, who will answer you? You're asking for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u107	May I finish, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u108	However, do not generally put the word 'prohibited' to me at least. I don't forbid anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, as far as I know, the parliamentary representative of a party has the right to speak on all issues relating to topicality or generally. The Minister here just represents the government. I'm not asking for any answer from the Minister, I'm asking the government for an answer. If I am wrong, please tell me, but, because you tell me and tell me that I am not allowed to speak, I am happy to stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Villard, so we don't leave rockets, I'll say something. Of course, the parliamentary spokesman can be expressed, but on all these issues, your President spoke in a detailed manner. Secondly, we leave some impressions, which often reflect on the President-in-Office's face, namely mine, which I show all this flexibility. However, a warm request could be made by the parliamentary representative to raise a matter of topicality. In fact, everyone has spoken today about the issue of COVID -19, it is topical. Now to say what happened ten days ago about the bankruptcy code, it's not topical. It has been discussed three days and three nights in the motion of censure, two days have been discussed, to complete the draft law, and four meetings - if I am not mistaken - in the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, may I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u112	Yes, Mr. Villardo, because I don't want us to leave a cliff with at least me. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u113	First of all, I didn't refer to the Bankruptcy Code. My colleague referred to SYRIZA, and as far as I understand you did not stop him from saying what he wants. So blame me for such things or that I want to leave impressions is the last thing we've done and that I've done so far while I'm here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Minister, it is clear that Mera25, as a force that fanatically supports internationalism and believes in the power of the union of the peoples, is voting in favour of the three sanctions that are being ratified today. However, I cannot avoid the temptation to remind the House and the Greek people, who are listening to us, Mr Aygeakis, - we are responsible as a dormitory and sport to a certain extent, that is, ancient Greece - that the problem with sport is that the merchandise of it now has hit'red'. It is characteristic that one has the feeling that sport itself does not perform for the necessity it has in the human soul and body, but mainly for the worldwide support of the huge trillions of gambling that roams around and revolves around it. This, a small country like Greece, can at least be in its bankrupt territory - and I say this in relation to the fact that it starves a large part of our people - to stop it, to stop it, to stop this terrible catastrophe of people who eat their last money, believing that they will win a system that mathematically win them, as all the cultivated people know. I'll combine that with something else. Mr Georgiadis - Mr President, I will really respect not being too much of an extension to such matters - it always trivialises and we never answer him. There is Mr Bukouros here, the parliamentary representative, to respond to us in turn. In connection with trade, I would like to say that we really do not like some investments from the New Democracy and from this government at all, Mr President, and from Parliament. We don't like casino investment at all. After eleven consecutive years of monuments that have bankrupt the Greek people, we believe it is challenging to say to him as governor "You can't eat, you can't get dressed, you can't get a job, but you can always play. So play your clothes too." Because to too many of our fellow humans that's all left. I would also like to say that we really do not like hydrocarbons extracts, especially when the benefit to our country - and I say it to be written in the Minutes - is EUR 18 million and thirty-four jobs and the billions or trillions that will arise from our national wealth, which will destroy our environment to be mined, will go to four multinational companies, Dutch, French, German and so on. So this kind of investment, we don't like it. They are investments, Mr President, so that the people who are listening to us, which will be a tourist in Santorini, and they will see a bulb, a huge platform that will cut off every mood to return to Santorini, go back to Mykonos. So we don't like these investments either. We also do not like outdated investments and powered wind turbines, which are now being withdrawn as failures from all over Europe, but we have discovered them here in Greece just now. Do you know who they like? Only Mr. Koplouzo likes to make money out of them. They will also destroy our tourism. We said we didn't like casinos at all. Can I tell you what we'd like? We would like to invest in real green energy, modern green energy. Everyone withdraws the wind turbines and they all put large arrays of similar wind turbines into the sea, where no one is bothering anyone and where there really is unintentionally permanent air. We'd love to see a state investment. Finally found the wonderful Greek state, the busy and busy Mr. Georgiadis, an institutional investor and told him "Come here, I'll keep the management of "Larko", because it's a national legacy, it's national property, but you get your fine money to share the profits, get part of the profits". Everyone here knows that the "LARCO", before the bankrupt by all the governments after the transfer of its administrations, was a vault and can still remain, as it exploits the largest and almost the only look. We have the monopoly of the deposit of this particular ore. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish right away, Mr President. I just want to say, by concluding, that we are not generally against investment, we in Mera25. We're against the investments that are stealing from us. And all those who have a good say, that is, common sense, should be against. We should be united against the investments that are stealing from us. I shall now conclude by saying to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, in relation to what he said a moment ago, that it is true that you have done great in the first part of the pandemic. However, we should at some point look into the eyes of the Greek people and tell him the truth. Or did you make a mistake, Mr. Bukhore, when you closed us and our businesses, the country's economy, in a universal lockdown with the Flevaris cases, or are you mistaken now that you are not closing us with ten times the deaths and almost ten times the deaths. Something's wrong somewhere. It was good for the world to stay at home. For business all, in fact, vertically, overall, we fear that there has been a great mistake. In closing and leaving, Mr President, I should like to say that for tourism - in reply to Mr Georgiadis - no matter what Mr Georgiadis said, any of the government, there are figures that are indisputable. Principles of August: zero cases in both the urban centres and the islands. We weren't leaving to the island until the end of July, so we wouldn't get stuck with them. There was no problem. And we had eliminated it from Athens too. End of August - early September? Over a hundred cases. What's going on? One thing only: Tourism opened with sample test in each tourist. One in the seventeen who entered the territory, Mr President, did a test. And that was a rough and extremely irresponsible one. We don't scream, we don't scream. We're telling you now what can be corrected. Once the tests were made twenty-five thousand, there was a thousand five hundred cases. So long we've all been screaming, and the Communist Party and SYRIZA and Mera25 and the Change Movement: Make the tests out of ten thousand that are, twenty-five, see how much the cases are, have an image of the spread, be able to deal with them. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Christos Boukokos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Some answers are necessary. I am not going to talk so much about the contents of the ratification of the convention, the bill we are discussing today. I'm sure the Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr. Augeakis, will cover us. I just want to say that sport and culture come as antidotes to conflicts and wars and that sport activity has not stopped between any country than was mentioned. If it was a defensive agreement and an economic agreement, we'd discuss it on a different basis. He is also accused of trying to do the Registry of Sports Clubs. And I heard some criticism from some parties about this. That is to say, they want the parties concerned to remain in the unions - seals, not to clarify the situation, not to get any conditions in place. In other words, those who really run sport and promote sport and those who have clubs - seals to participate in elections, have the same funding. That's what the opposition parties tell us. This can't be done. There's got to be some sort of order, some kind of sport. Mr President, however, I listen to the opposition parties and whatever we discuss in this Chamber, their debate and arguments are turning to the pandemic. And I understand that, because it is the major issue that concerns the country right now. They tell us today, ex post: "In the first wave you did well. In the second wave you are not doing well." As if they knew what the pandemic would be like or it was something that we had seen before, and we had to have a recipe to deal with this problem. Indeed, cases are increasing. What does not, however, increase at all is the credibility of the opposition parties. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are disgusting to you. Do we have an increase in cases? Of course, we have an increase in cases. Compared to the countries with a similar population with Greece, is Greece high or low? It's too low. What do you want? Compare with Belgium, Sweden, with Bulgaria, with Romania, with the Czech Republic? With which of these countries do you want to compare? Many of them did not open their borders to tourism, because these countries have no summer tourism and their borders were closed down to all of the tourist markets. How, then, does it explain that these countries today have multiple cases from Greece? Unless you think that Greece could stay a security island and have zero cases throughout this battle against pandemic. No expert has said that, no infectious agent. Comparatively - and this is a good thing and we should remain a legacy - we are one of the last countries, thankfully, in Europe and in cases and deaths per million. And that proves the government's responsibility, not the irresponsibility you claim. You get some images from public transport, to say that the crowd is responsible for the rapid spread of the virus in Athens and possibly in Thessaloniki. You're not confirmed by numbers. They're still disgusting you. There is, in fact, a crowd in public transport, both in Athens and Thessaloniki. I told you it would be desirable to have a teaching room for ten-15 students and a bus for ten-15 passengers. What is possible, though. You propose some emblematic solutions, some spare parts, as if this will dramatically change the picture, while the country has made - and the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure - a new fleet order and is constantly increasing the buses in particular. And works are also announced, of course, which will take place in the coming years, expansion of the metro. Let's not forget all this. The figures do not confirm you, however, for another reason. I see that we had a thousand five hundred cases yesterday, which is a large number of them and some nine hundred of them are in the Athens area. However, fifty were recorded in the Serres region and there are now 30,000 tests throughout the country. It's a very good, very reliable sample. If public transport were to be charged alone, as you say, exclusively for the transmission of the virus - why do I hear it from all the parties, Mr President, that it is the responsibility of aggregation in the means of transport - in Serres, the hundreds of fifty cases in Serres how they are explained? Is there a crowd in Serres' public transport? There is no crowding in no regional city in public transport. The 50 cases of Serres are 1/6 of the cases of Athens, which are nine hundred. So your numbers are completely disgusting. And I am the last person to say that there is no need for more means of transport and, above all, that we do not need to respect the measures within public transport. Of course, and we need, as the measures are needed everywhere, in all enclosed areas, but where there is a crowd - and we are told by experts, we are not talking about them - and open spaces. All the measures proposed by the Committee on Epidemiologists and, of course, implemented by the government in keeping with a position of responsibility and listening from the beginning of the pandemic to experts and only those experts, because they have the right to say a word more, because they have the data in their hands, they have the medical experience in their hands, they have the international experience in their hands. And that's exactly what the government does. That is why we are at a much better place than other countries, and the comparison can be made with other European countries of a similar population with Greece. With your tactics, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, you give the impression that you may be wrong, that you want to get away from cases, so that the government can be accountable. This is a fight that concerns us all. It is about the parties and, above all, about society. So let us show logic and coolness and I believe that at the end of the day the country's position will be much better than the position of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u120	Here, Mr. Booba, you want something? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to speak because my colleague said about my law, the Serres. Let me tell you something, Mr Colleague, since you referred to my own constituency.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u122	But that's not personal. It's an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u123	He said, for example, that. But say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u124	Public transport is responsible as long as all closed spaces...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u125	Do you want to hear the cause and cause, Mr. Comrade? You want to hear the cause? You're not listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Booba, don't let us open this whole thing. He gave his explanation to something he heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u127	Just because I live in the area and experience it, Mr President, in Thessaloniki the nightclubs were closed all summer at 12 o'clock and a half. The whole of Thessaloniki was in Serres.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u128	That's what it sounds like.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u129	Understood? That's why a lot of cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u130	Because there's a lot of guts going on with the pandemic, Mr. President....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u131	Don't go on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u132	...if that were the case in Serres, was it both in Kosani and in Yannina, Mr. Comrade, where exactly the same data apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u133	Well, all right. Before I give the Minister the floor to close today's sitting on the three sanctions, I would like to give an answer to everyone and, otherwise, to Mr Villardos. I would simply ask him to see Rule 17(6) of the Rules of Procedure, which refers, anyway, to Rule 66(8) and (9). In other words, even this dialogue was the result of this. Always - and I have many years to serve the Greek Parliament - there is the possibility, especially at the level of the Heads of State or Government, of raising other issues. The Parliamentary Representatives shall be the alternates of the Heads of State or Government. So this misunderstanding does not go on. I wanted you to read it. Otherwise, we do not apply. We're out, away from 17 and 66. But I'll beg you to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u135	You want to say something? Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u136	First of all, what bothered me was that you insulted me, saying that I say things about stunning. I never say anything about impress here. I'm interested in the country and I'm trying to do my best. The second is that colleagues, for example the last colleague spoke of COVID -19, spoke about tourism - and very well he did - and certainly not about the bill. I alone was not allowed to speak, despite the fact that I referred to other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u137	No, no. The rest has been spoken about and, in any case, on an intervening issue that is topical and understands any Bureau. Don't go on. There's no misunderstanding from me. And if something has not been said properly by me, I ask you and I apologise to restore communication. Minister, you have the floor to close today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, you will allow me to address my fellow Members from the opposition parties who have referred to matters other than those under the authority, since I do not want anything to fall unanswered, especially as regards the issues of the Ministry of Sport. And I begin with my dear Mr. Synthraki, colleague of the K.C.E. From Heraklion. For the register, Mr Synthraki, we will have the opportunity to discuss in detail the next few days that have been scheduled for a timely question you have tabled and I am delighted to have even more up-to-date information in order to be able to follow up the information, which is not hidden, as you have seen. There's nothing left of it. All in the light. We serve transparency and we do so. However, I shall refer later to some of the elements that Mr Skourletis must know at least, who has spoken as a Parliamentary representative, again referring to the register, and then left. Wrong. But a report, Mr. Synergyaki, on the subject of Heraklion's swimming pool. You're right. We're sorry we can't do it all with a magic wand. However, I should like to inform you of something that you already know from your concern as a local MP, but also as a representative of the K.E.C., in various speeches you have made. As far as the swimming pool of Chania is concerned, it's in a terrible state. I've visited the facilities myself. There has been a step forward in the technical service of the Ministry of Sport and we have already been 'ordered' - in introductory - integrated studies without ceiling - because we want everything to be completed properly, without any consideration of the level of the budget - at the Crete Development Agency. It is the fastest way, the fastest mechanism to draw up a comprehensive study of Chania's swimming pool for everything that is needed. We are extremely optimistic, because the President of the OAS, and the administration of our sports centre in Chania, are helping the maximum, plus our technical service, so that we soon have an integrated study to proceed quickly to the improvements required, without second thought, without any asterisk. It is the situation that is extremely dangerous and tragic. It's our priority. However, whatever money is needed to get the backdrop out of it, I will tell you in detail, if you want to, in a private debate. It's my pleasure, I have no problem. They're taken care of. It is already at the fund of the Sports Centre of Chania and we are doing everything in our power to cover the problem and, in total, once the studies have been completed, to ensure whatever money it takes, to make the swimming pool, as it must and as appropriate in a society that has admittedly displayed great stars in Greek sport. As far as Heraklion's swimming pool is concerned, and here you will allow me to tell you that we have predicted. So we have already speeded up the procedures and the contractor who has taken over the process of replacing the machinery for the Hercules swimming pool, which literally broke with the waterbath of the previous days, has made us a week ahead of us. We have taken care of, the work has been auctioned, after thirty-five years all the equipment is replaced. The contractor has already worked, and we hope that within two and a half months the damage will be restored. In addition, it is interesting to tell you that we have already done everything we need, so that for a whole complex with the existing swimming pool - a new closed swimming pool of 25X53 - with a beach volleyball, with a skateboard track, with enhanced and modernized "LIDEO", plus a closed basketball and volleyball coach right next to, plus two tennis courtes and two "3X3" - an entire complex, that is to say, at the premises of "LIDEO" - studies must be completed, as you can hear, so that we can proceed to the tender procedure and be built and delivered to the citizens of Heraklion. However, you have forgotten, and here you have to say a word - a good word you have to say - on the subject of the Freedom Stage. Because I went back to the record of the Ministry of Sports and you had tabled dozens of questions about the Freedom Stage in Chania. Didn't you find yourself a good word? Haven't you visited it? Haven't you been informed? Say it. It's not bad to say a good word, say a good one that our government, the Ministry of Sports after forty years replaced the tataran, built the fields, has maintained everything, even a gym, with the help of private individuals - take care - that you're against it, but that happened. With a lot of modesty they also put money in. The work, the details that make the difference have not yet been completed, but the space has already been given to the athletes, to the unions, and it is gradually being delivered to the society of Heraklion, a modern 'bibel', and I am referring to the Eleftheria Stadium in the center of Heraklion. For the Greek Solution, my dear Mr Bouba, who is absent and referred to Qatar, I would just like to say one detail. Today we are discussing the establishment of a Qatar agreement with Greece and Bulgaria and the United Arab Emirates. But as far as the issue of sport is concerned, you are missing this. It's not bad. However, we are telling you from the Step of the House in the most official way that our ministry is already working together at laboratory level to analyse the samples of antidopting with the Qatar laboratory, where it is all the operative that was at the Olympic Stadium, in our workshop which closed - with the responsibility of which I will say it immediately afterwards, and I will now reply to Mrs Vetta, because she was kind enough to shake the finger on the subject of the antidopting laboratory and the PSE - and all the scientists were taken there to survive. There, then, is the Greek inspiring potential, in position No. 2 and below the lab of Qatar, we managed to come near and cover the need for antidong until the completion and operation procedures of our own laboratory are completed, which I will say very thoroughly afterwards. So we are already working on this and the memorandum only deals with sport. As far as the 2030 World Cup or the 2028 European Cup are concerned, Mrs Vetta, I do not know who you were listening to, and you carried, as I am told, some things that are irresponsible. Check my words again, please. But, anyway, in order not to be inconvenienceful, I will speak from the Step of the House to know the position of the government in terms of the 2030 World Cup or the 2028 European Cup. They must be aware of the intentions which the four Member States' leaders had actually recorded at the time. They had signed a declaration of intent to investigate the possibility of a common candidacy - nothing had been locked - Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia. Right, that's true. However, they also agreed that every six months each country would organise a meeting of the football federations to see if they could submit the dossier for the EURO of 2028. It has been extremely difficult to comment on by those responsible, not by the government, from the federations of the four states. We had cooperation with the Greek Football Federation, to inform us about which they have done so, so that we can move from there and below. We don't disagree. If it's a good thing that the previous government has delivered us, we're going on with it, we're not drowning it. There is no such problem. Such a complex we don't have. So we have been told this: It is considered extremely difficult, because all the countries together do not have 40% of the infrastructure required for such an organisation with twenty-four participants. I would inform you, having expressed our intention to go ahead with this project, this idea - we did not deny or avoid anything - that last November was the turn of Romania to hold the corresponding meeting, of mobilisation. Some days before this meeting finally fell their government, so it stayed in the void. Then came the coroner. Since then, nothing has happened at all. Our turn to organise the next meeting, meeting, co-operation is the first half of 2021. We, and then we will do what we need, because we believe that if we can achieve it, even with the difficulties that we have already been informed that they exist, it is not bad. It's for our benefit. It is quite clear that anything that helps our country's extrovert is for the sake of our country, for the sake of sport and we will serve it with a lot of passion. I want to report on fans on the field. Mr. Skourletus said so. You said it yourself. The initial decision of the infectious agents, following an integrated proposal from the 'SUPER LEAGUE 1' of the first category football teams, as it is commonly said, after too much effort, and after working with them with a working group set up with Nikos Chardalia, was submitted and discussed with the infectologists. Many comments and improvements have been made. They made a majority decision. However, the data obtained a few hours later, admittedly nourished everyone and the infectious. That is why the Prime Minister has done this right, in our view. And since we are talking about the coronary, it is good - in agreement with our parliamentary representative, Mr Bukkoro and with our rapporteur Mrs Skondra - that we should be more careful and not spearheaded in matters relating to the health and safety of citizens. It is good - but everyone - to serve with polite delight in the efforts made by the Ministry of Health as a whole, but also by the leadership of our country in what is said, to deal with a pandemic that they confess to, we have given examples of writing as a country. I would like to say a word about the register, with the commitment, Mr Syntagakis, that we will say more than Monday that we have the timely question. On May 19, we started operating the Register of Amateur Sports Associations in our country. Is that on his own? Oh, no. Or did we get the appetite one morning and said: 'Let's do the record, why do we want to avenge anyone'? No, no relationship. We had sent a letter to all federations from 14 April, the responsible Directorate of the Ministry of Sport, asking us to be given the information, firstly, to be able to carry out the relevant checks, on the one hand, to proceed with the payment, aid for the economics of amateur associations after twelve years and, on the other, to create the register that is needed, but on the other hand, and, on the other, to avoid you, Mrs Vetta and Mr Skourletis, who are absent - that she had voted on nr.4373/2016, i.e. SYRIZA. I didn't hide that at the press conference I gave. I did. I mentioned it. Published in April 2016. And I commented rather, because it was an early April tale, the government left it, while voting for it, three years inactive. I mean, that's right, you've traced the problem. You voted for it, but you did not implement it. Can I have a word with you? Would you like some good on the other side? However, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vetta, rapporteur of SYRIZA, is missing something else, which everyone says to the sporting family: The model, which you have voted on and which you have not been able to implement for three years, has been extremely difficult and demanding. And with the law we spent a few weeks ago, we simplified the process to write as many amateur unions as possible in an easier way. So review what you said, because they're exposing you. I will say nothing more in reply to Mr Skourletis, but also to Mr Moraitis who has produced a very nice communication which is at least a monument of funnyness, the answer he gave. I will not say anything but read to you the statement by Mr Copadinos, the Secretary-General on SYRIZA, which is the answer to you and said: 'We understand that there is a problem with inert trade unions and unions'. Didn't you understand? Your guy used to say that. '... or black money circulating in sport'. Didn't you get it? Your guy says that. And it continues: "It cannot be turned into a pretext for intervention by the Government in the electoral procedures." That's right. Three years, why didn't you activate it? What were you waiting for? ‘The statutes and institutional judicial authorities shall define the legality of the associations and who shall have the right to elect and vote.’ I am referring to these as an answer, because you do not know what you are saying. Excuse me, but you don't know what you're saying and being exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u139	The monkeys, how much are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u140	As far as the procedure is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that you are not wrong with the government here. It's unfair because our government for the first time has triggered the registry. He didn't stay in an announcement. And I was committed and you have questioned me all here from the rest of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u141	Not everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u142	We've published the records. It's nothing secret. You accused us - and you accused me - of saying: 'You want this because you want a electoral mechanism'. What are you talking about? As far as I know, you know that. All interested parties know this and everyone involved. Do you have such mechanisms in the parties and do procedures? So you're taking everything out in the forum and then you're doing procedures? Because I have passed through the mechanisms from a responsible party secretary's position, let me tell you that if we wanted to do a procedure, we did not all do it in the forum. However, because the institutional status I have today and I serve with delight by the Prime Minister, whom I thank was this: the Amateur Union register will work as it works, it will be accessible to everyone, as it is, and the data will be available to everyone, as it is. Why are you accusing us, really? Are you accusing us of why we didn't put another three years in the drawer and follow SYRIZA's stalker? Uh, no, of course not. That is why today we can talk. But we're talking about evidence. We are not talking about scripts and intentions, saying: 'Maybe, yes, but'. We're saying specific things. And we don't see each other because we're smart. Just what did we do? We activated the register, recorded data and analysed by the service actors, whom I thank once again, because they have worked weekends, Sundays, holidays. They're there and they're putting back. And you know why? Because they first know better about the mess of amateur sport. They first know better. And they first have the anguish to enter a class, because they too are affected daily by the bad texts and the tensions created through this chaotic system. That's why they've put their backs on, and thank you warmly. It is good for you to say in your turn 'thank you' to the officials. It's not bad. It's a platform that people put beyond their hours. And despite the coronary and their obligations, half of them are absent from their offices and half the others are working with teleconferences, however, they work. Let us say 'thank you'. It is not bad to recognise the work of public officials when they do and do it well, as they now do at the Ministry of Sports. That is why, Mr President, from the Change Movement, with the premises - from Monday to Monday I have the timely question - we have five thousand forty-four clubs that opened a tab in the register. We didn't stop anyone. I wish these figures had been raised. It's our pleasure. But to increase, if they have a real entity, a real legal status and, of course, a racing activity. Of the five thousand three hundred forty-four, we have four thousand nine hundred eighteen unions, who have gone ahead with their application. We didn't stop anyone. Now, I remembered you were accusing us. You said: "You will close the register. And you do it to pressure them." Who closed the record? Recall all that you were saying, if you have the courage and courage to say: “Yes, we were wrong. There, you were right, but we can't say it too loud, because we're opposition." It is not bad for an Opposition to tell the truth, to say a 'bravo' in a process which is taking place. Of the four thousand nine hundred eighteen unions, three thousand sixty - seven unions completed their request, or 65%. Our services progressed rapidly, both at a racing level and at a financial level, of which a thousand seven hundred fifty-one have not completed the dossier. And we had tragic numbers, which I presented in detail at the press conference, I hid nothing. I have no reason to hide or pet anyone. Only 40% of union applications do not fulfil the law on the issues of coaches. Don't you care about the coach thing? You, especially the JRC, made it a flag last time. So I tell you, if you have the courage to say it, 'you did it well at the Ministry that you put the question of coaches ahead and will soon end this chaos that has existed for years in SYRIZA'. What have you been up to today? What have you been doing for five years? You hid it under the rug, so you could be nice to everyone. No, we'll set order and everyone will know what their obligations are and what their rights are. We are living in Greece not only for rights but also for obligations, and this will also be the case in the field of coaches, which 70% with 80% of the cases of active unions do not have legal activity, legal employment of coaches. Isn't that your concern? Doesn't that scare you? So, work, black especially, does not work at the expense of the right, legal work of scientists, people who have studied, who have completed procedures and who even today do not know exactly what their rights are? We will do so, and I call on you all, all parties to help in this process, namely, to settle and prepare a framework that is served by everyone, and it is the first time that we have said so, but we will do so. You only said it, but you never did it. Because 70% with 80% of the controlled amateur associations - I repeat - have black chaos, black work and, of course, an uncontrolled situation in the matter of coaches. And the second element that frightened us, but we said it loud and public, is that 88% of union applications do not fulfil the conditions of the 2019 law, a 2020 budget in the region concerned. 88%, chaos! Simplyer than two thousand unions don't give anyone an economic account. Does that satisfy you? We don't. We are not punishing anyone, instead, who is publicising the situation, we want to strengthen the good volunteers, the management of amateur associations who have done their job well or who are struggling to keep them up. We want in every way to strengthen them, make them legal, gentlemen, rulers, trustworthy and transparent to continue to operate. That is why we are working with a clear message: we want as many amateur clubs as possible to exist in our country, to be registered, to be legally, to have the special athletic recognition. I imagine you know the problems of an athlete who can be distinguished and if his club doesn't have the special athletic recognition, he never gets the molecules. Do you know that? So, do you agree with this chaos? I guess not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u143	And with this in mind, Minister, we have escaped a great deal, and I am responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u144	No, I want time, Mr. President, please. If, therefore, in a group sport in an organisation for some reason, it participates in a legal association, but because some of the clubs involved in this group are not legal, it does not have the special athletic recognition, it lures everything and everyone and they are not limited. Do you like this image, knowing mother and parent that his child has been discriminated against, so will he also have the molecules and at some point realize that because that club didn't have, can't his child even enjoy these privileges? No, of course, now we have to sort this out. Transparency is therefore legal everywhere, without any discrimination. And I'm going to today's. A few days after the vote on Law 4726, a law - a law, which really constitutes a reform and not a deregulation of this chaotic situation that I presented to you a moment ago, a law - an incision on Greek sport - we are coming today to discuss three memorandums of cooperation with Bulgaria, the United Arab Emirates and, of course, Qatar. So the government in our commitments is doing the government's program. We are working to achieve our strategic goal, that extroversion of Greek sport in the international sphere. The extroversion is part of the government's priorities and of sport. Cooperation with other countries strengthens the prestige of Greek sport, internationally communicates its practices and introduce innovative methods that apply other sports systems. Extroversion is not vital, only for the development of good governance applications, but also for strengthening sporting tourism. That is why we are aiming at demanding international sports events, which are going to be a attraction for thousands of tourists - sports enthusiasts, who will strengthen local economies. At a time of crisis, at a time when pandemic has a major impact, not only on health, but also on the social and economic level, and at a time when our national issues require conflict and unity within and within international cooperation and alliances abroad, sport can be an important area for strengthening our country's position internationally. In the field of sport, extrovertism and in particular the promotion of Olympic principles and values are a common place. After all, the memos we are debating today have been signed by the previous governments. We have already developed synergies and cooperation, as I mentioned just now. We do not live in the words - that is our difference - we bring the memorandum of cooperation that has been left in drawers for too many years. We are not stalling or staying in press braces "we do not go any further than the previous government, because it was SYRIZA". No, if something is right, we will run it, we will support it, we will enrich it, we will fix it, and yes, we bring it to Parliament and we ask for the support of all the parties. Sport brings the peoples, the peoples of the whole world closer together. It creates a spirit of peace, cooperation between the peoples and is a tool - a real tool, in the good sense - to pursue foreign policy. And I will repeat - let me - an excerpt from the speech made by the leader of South Africa Nelson Mandela, who I had said so to the committee, but has a value and, please, take note of it. He said: "Sport has the power to change the world, has the power to inspire, has the power to unite the world in a way that little other things can. He speaks to young people in a language they understand. Sport can create hope". We fully agree and serve as a government with piety. In the field of extroversion of sport, then, I announce that on 4-5 November it will be received online - unfortunately - the 16th Council of Europe Ministerial Conference on Sport, as part of the Greek Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, the development of pandemic at European level makes it impossible to hold the summit in a natural presence. We are therefore adapting the summit to the new data, and it is indeed a pity that the multiple formal meetings and events that we originally planned cannot be held. This leading anniversary event of the Greek Presidency for the completion of the seventy years since the signing of the European Convention on Human Rights will take place on 4 November, along with the central event of the Presidency and in addition on Friday, 6 November, workshops will be organised for government officials on the subject, including the fight against corruption in sport. We value European and transnational cooperation as a special government. Last June we tabled the Memorandum of Cooperation with Japan, a cooperation of special value, ahead of the 2021 Olympic Games in Tokyo. We have already signed a memorandum of cooperation with countries of different culture and sport from our own, such as the Federation of People with Disabilities in China, with the United States of Mexico, with the Republic of Poland, while we are already preparing the signing of a memorandum of cooperation with the National Institute for Natural Education and Recreation in Cuba, with the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Serbia. As you know, in the fight against corruption in sport we have already ratified the McColin Convention since last November - I remind you - and with recent Law 4726, we have also implemented the National Platform of Sport Integrity. Let me just remind you - why you forgot to mention this - that ratification of the McColin Convention was five years in the drawer. Why? Didn't you care? From the first day we took it out of the drawer, we brought it, we swore it in November, and recently, we brought the improvement provisions that now activate the platform under the name "National Sport Integrity Platform" - Sports Integrity is the initials - and it is an important step towards the implementation of legislation, because we are not just legislating, but we are doing everything - mark it all! - the measures necessary for the implementation of the laws implementing the provisions. Significant steps have been taken over the last 15 months for international cooperation on the fight against doping. And let me remind you here that again because of the frugality of the previous government, we were in danger with Grexit from the Anti-Dopting World Organisation. I will not tell you what we have done all over the past 15 months, but I will tell you what exactly the President of WADA said last Thursday at a teleconference we had, where we presented not what we will do, as Mr Vassiliadis has repeatedly done - I have the documents, if you like, Mrs Vetta, at your disposal, here we have nothing to hide - where the previous government has made inappropriate promises. Today, in 15 months' time, we have presented in detail everything that has been done and what is still to be done. And the President of WADA closes, saying: "I am pleased to work with you. You have made great progress so far and more importantly is that so many things have been done in a short time if all the difficulties are taken into account because of the pandemic. Congratulations! I dare say that I take the most positive news from Greece, at the same time that no other country has had such good news, so pleasant news. And I want us to continue with the hand - in order to complete the necessary changes.'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u145	But please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u146	I'm rushing to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u147	You've taken twenty minutes to answer my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, there is no restrictions on the speaker. You know that very well, you're experienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u149	Hang up, please. Just keep in mind that President-in-Office of the Council is rarely there, because we have escaped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u150	But this is your point, it's not a matter of speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u151	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u152	As far as the issue of the anti-doping workshop at DIMMOCRITOS is concerned, I would like to inform you - because you probably do not know it - that we financed it in collaboration with the Ministry of Development and, in particular, with the State Secretary responsible for this issue, Mr Dimas, who, and I thank you for the excellent cooperation we have signed, and of course we have financed it with more than EUR 400,000 since this year, in order to meet the current needs. Also, over 2 million have been secured and the work has been auctioned, having purchased a large part of the equipment, so that even at laboratory level it is ready to welcome all the samples and examine them as appropriate. Moreover, in a few days' time - not months, but years' time, but days - the facilities are ready and not of the ESKAN, an organization that operated as a scoundrel within the premises of the Ministry, but of the EEC, which is an autonomous organisation and economic and administrative - has signed the presidential decree by the President of the Republic - with its own offices, in the center of Olympic Stadium, which I will call on you - if you have the mood - to inaugurate together in the next few days, when the latest work is done well. So we understand the anti-doping, not theories and nice words and things I have written to you, and you do not even know them very well, Mrs Vetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u153	Leave the insults.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u154	It's not an insult. I always talk to data, as you know, and I'm not happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u155	Please, Minister, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u156	When I hear things unscrupulous, I won't be happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u157	Please, my colleague, don't interrupt. Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u158	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that everything has been said in every detail by the rapporteur of our party, Mrs Skondra, and I thank you very much for the cooperation we have had, by our parliamentary representative, Mr Boukoro, but also by other colleagues who have taken the floor to the committee, with regard to the three Memorandums of Cooperation between the three countries. It is self-evident to support any attempt to strengthen sport, the ideas of sport, but also the need for our country to strengthen its foreign policy, by using an amazing one - in introductory terms always - 'a tool', such as sport. And that's not what any country says, but Greece says it, the country that gave birth to olympism. That is why I call on all parties, even now, to rethink their position and to support the vote on the signing and activation of all three Memorandums, which are already being discussed and voted on in the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and their vote will be taken separately. We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding for Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the General Welfare Authority for Youth and Sport of the United Arab Emirates". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u161	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u162	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘The establishment of the Memorandum of Understanding for Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the United Arab Emirates’ has been accepted by majority vote on the principle of Articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u163	We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding in the Sports Sector between the Olympic Committee of the State of Qatar and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u165	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u166	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Creating the Memorandum of Understanding in the Sports Sector between the Olympic Committee of the State of Qatar and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic" was accepted by a majority of the articles and the whole of it and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u167	We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Protocol on Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Religion, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Physical Education and Sport of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u169	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u170	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: ‘Sports Cooperation Protocol between the Ministry of Education and Religion, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Physical Education and Sport of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria’ has been accepted by a majority of the following institutions:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u172	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-29-S1-commons.u173	With the consent of this House at 13.51 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 30 October 2020 at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's scrutiny: a) Topical and urgent debate and b) Topical and urgent debate. 1/5-10-2020 topical question for Members of Parliament's Group of the Radical Left coalition to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'No use of the NRP to deal with the health, economic and social consequences of the coronary pandemic'.
