ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 11-3-2020 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACT session of Wednesday, 11 March 2020 concerning the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Amendment of provisions of Law 2168/1993 (A'147) on the control of arms, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other provisions’, harmonisation of Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons and the adoption of additional measures necessary for its implementation’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Maria - Alexandra Head, MP Ioannina, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 2a]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, before we proceed with the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, let me inform the House first of all of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 16 March 2020. A. REFERENCES for the First Cycle (Rule 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question raised by Mr Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the subject: "Short constructions within the moat of the old fortress Corfu. " 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 582/10-3-2020 topical question by the MP Drama of the Change Movement Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Illegality and arbitrariness in the Selection Councils of Educational Works Coordinators and Education Managers". 3. The Question No 585/10-3-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthakis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "The equivalence of foreign diplomas". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The 590/10-3-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Agia Sophia" in the Municipality of Delta of Thessaloniki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 586/10-3-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "The situation in professional high school (EPAAL)". Before we begin with today's topical questions, I must say, as President-in-Office and as my experience, that we have been in a special process in these days. We must therefore be tailored to the Rules of Procedure. Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure provides for the procedure. I have been in this House for so many years, but also in the chair. I see that there has been a very great misuse of the topical and urgent debate. So what does the Rules of Procedure say? It says that the timely question must be written and brief and contain the elements which are absolutely necessary to clearly identify the issue - and only - to which it refers, and the two questions at most. Previously - I don't know if anyone remembers - there was no question of the questioner. The timely question was read by the President, the Minister answered and then there was a second question. Here I see that both secondary and text questions are new questions. How does each Member know what the Minister's going to say? Today, then, we will be very strict in keeping time, so go straight to the question, with very little reason, if you like, two words. The prology will be two minutes. There is a great problem of time to all of us, particularly to the ministers who constantly have to be in their Ministries or other conferences, because society is currently waiting for a response and the implementation of certain specific things on the big issue that affects us as Greece. That's what I wanted to say in an introductory statement, because I'm going to interrupt anyone spending the time of his prototype, and whatever he wants to complete, he'll do it in his second language, which will be accurate again. The same applies to you, Minister. I mean, your period of protology and denology will be three minutes. It will be the vocabulary - as predicted - two minutes and the trilogy of three minutes, not asking new questions. I never remember that. I won't say names. In other words, timely questions are being put which could be questions. That is not the point of the timely question. I sincerely am delighted that questions are being answered right now, that the ministers are coming and that there is a real debate. We must also respect the Rules of Procedure. That's all I wanted to say in quotes. Let's move on. The Secretary-General for Parliamentary and Legal Affairs Mr Koutnatzis informs us that number 569, 575, 583, 587 and 588 topical questions and the question number 3512 will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The question under number 584 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna Michailidou, and by the number 573 timely question to the Minister for Rural Development will be answered by Mr Mavroudi Voridis. So we shall now proceed to the debate on topical and urgent questions. The third, with number 583/10-3-2020, top-circuit question from MP B3's South Athens section of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Taking back problems from the implementation of the emergency measures due to the new koroni virus", and the fourth question with number 569/4-3-202020, first-round question from MP B2' Western Athens Sector of the Hellenic Solution, Mr Maria Athanasios to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Protection measures for workers from the coronary", which refer to the same subject, will be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their time, in application of the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor for his prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in time. Minister, the question of dealing with problems with the implementation of the emergency measures was tabled before the measures were taken - announced yesterday, on Wednesday, 11 March - and in particular on 5 March. With this question, we have asked for measures to be taken to ensure and guarantee the rights of workers, who either are ill themselves and are staying at home, whether they are nursing family patients or who have stopped work because of preventive measures. In view of the measures announced by the government yesterday, questions remain and we want your answers as to whether you intend to obtain a normal licence, and to obtain an additional permit or a special or whatever is called, with full pay and insurance: first, to those who are ill in order to recover. Secondly, to those workers who are forced to abstain from work as an emergency measure to prevent the spread of the coronary. Thirdly, to those workers who are called upon to take care of a sick child or an elderly member of the family and fourthly to those who are called upon to stay with their children at home because of the preventive closure of schools and nursery facilities. As a JRC in addition to checking on the health and safety of workers at workplaces, we have called for further measures at the cost of the State and business groups taking care of it. We ask for the government's answers to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the Mrs Maria Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, already today since we tabled the question, the situation because of the coronary is geometrically worsening. It was eight cases, and yesterday we had ninety. Practical and management protocols recommend that people stay home and stay away from work. The question at first had the cause of the closure of the school complex because of the weaker zero, but already with the closure of the schools decided - and rightly so - hundreds of thousands of parents should stay with their children, since they cannot leave them alone. But the same candidates for cases, especially in school units that are already historical and tracking, should refrain from working and generally socialising them. I understand that it is not possible - and perhaps there is not a direct reason - for all parents from all over the territory to be allowed to leave. However, especially in cases where adults for any reason because of the virus have to abstain from working, you must take measures, on the one hand, to qualify for this absence - it is not possible to consume normal leave and sick leave for this purpose - on the other hand, the income of workers must be guaranteed for this period. Also, Minister, you must bear in mind and in this regard legislate that any redundancies at this time should be examined in detail, as things may seem to be taking advantage of the circumstances and the evil complaints of contracts of employment. I ask you this: what measures do you intend to take to protect the working of workers as a whole on the grounds of the dispersion of the coronary and, secondly, what measures do you intend to take to characterise the forced absence of citizens because of the coronary from their work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. The Minister has the floor for three and three, that is, six minutes, under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, thank you very much. I do not think I will need them, because I see both the consensual climate and the climate of responsibility resulting from the statements made by colleagues. As both honourable Members have said, the questions which have been put in writing to the Ministry of Labour through the House on these matters have already been answered and answered within one week because of the extraordinary events and developments which unfortunately occur in our country as well. I would like to make a special comment, Mr President, which I consider to be particularly important. Yesterday's announcement of the World Health Organisation is something that also confirms the seriousness of the situation with its stamp. A serious situation that crosses the world community, Europe and our country. We all realize that this is a time of personal and collective responsibility. We must follow with gratitude, in particular, we in Parliament, and with all the potential to influence society, the community as a whole, friends, workers, colleagues, our families, our relatives, the regulations, and those of the World Health Organisation, and those of the Ministry of Labour for the Workplaces. They must be respected with reverence by everyone, because the situation is too steadfast, dangerous, the difficult ones are, unfortunately, ahead. All united together - such as in the debate I had with the social partners two days ago, namely the institutional dialogue that is necessary, but because of the extraordinary events, the social partners, workers and employers - and with a sense of responsibility, we codecision that we must all contribute together and unite to tackle this great crisis for our country, the unprecedented crisis that is not just for Greece, is for the whole world. The crisis will be dealt with and overcome by a united state, workers and businesses. We will all contribute together, unite our forces and make it. Apart from that, on the issues you have raised on the issues of measures taken, I would like to tell you that the government is on a gun spear, that is, every day we are alert and we are trying to monitor developments. We must intervene in a budgetary and socially responsible way so that we can protect both society and workers and businesses at the same time. Because if you drop the burden right now in the business community, the next day there will be no jobs. We all understand the need for balanced intervention and that is what we are doing in a careful, coherent way. That's why you can't tell the ministries either. A total of every measure taken by the government at a level of measures is announced and we move forward. Unfortunately, any announcement we make does not cover after a period of time and they need new communications and so we will constantly, as we are today. After this I leave for Maximos where there is a meeting with the Prime Minister to decide on the follow-up of the issues and new decisions to be made. The measures which have now been announced by both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour are already well known. They are to suspend the payment of VAT, regulate debts to the Ministry of Finance, strengthen the Ministry of Health with resources of EUR 15 million, plus the Prime Minister's announcement yesterday on the exceptional recruitment of two thousand health professionals, involving hospitals, health centres and CSR. This was announced yesterday by the Prime Minister in his letter. As far as the Ministry of Labour is concerned, which this time as the most sensitive ministry is concerned, a large load of critical decisions concerning society, workers, pensioners, the whole of society and business is concerned, you already know that we have announced our intervention in the area of flexibility in the labour market so that through the 'ERGANIS' business can be costly, in collaboration with the workers in a consultation hours, so that there is no blockage in business and, in cooperation with the workers, the possibility of being in a harmonious relationship to the normal functioning of businesses as well as possible. Secondly, we have strengthened and legislated - it will come out by legislative act today - work from the house so that we reduce the crowding in the workplaces where this is possible. Thirdly, the question of insurance contributions for companies which have been hit by the administrative decision of the State to close down in the three laws is already in practice legislative and other measures, but, Mr President, due to the time being, I shall refer to the rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I give the floor to Mr Christos Katsotis, the member of the JRC, for developing his second-guess. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the introduction of any measure which serves to protect public health can only be combined with measures to protect workers from employers' aggression. The measures announced yesterday by the Government do not respond to these needs, instead expose workers to the immunity of business groups. In the workplaces and industries as well as quarantine areas, there is a suspension of controls by local labour inspections due, of course, to the climate and to the use of the situation by businesses who want to load the crisis that has occurred to workers. The measure to suspend the employer's obligation to register directly in the computer system "ERGANI" any change in the working hours together with the possibility of working with flexible working hours or distance working, will open the door to Evilos in order to become arbitrary bodies such as the hit on working hours, etc. Businesses, and they will not announce changes in industrial relations anywhere and at the same time they will not be controlled. The measure concerning the licences of workers, parents and so on, in the face of the closure of educational units, with the logic of cost sharing, will be exploited by employers to attack the right to a normal licence. Instead of being forced into additional days of leave with full pay and insurance, as we have said, the Court of Justice of the European Union has, in order to get rid of the normal leave of workers, a right which, as is well known, remains standing in the ten-year crisis and is now being called into question. The obligation to grant additional leave with remuneration is the measure which will facilitate workers and at the same time prevent arbitrariness. The government has not announced, for example, sanctions, fines and penalties to employers who are breaking industrial relations and working hours but who, on the contrary, is suspending controls. This leads to the measures finally being wishful. Indeed, who will oblige employers in these conditions of non-controlling and full freedom of choice to give the special permission and not to impose the use of days of leave from normal? There are already dozens of complaints about refusal to grant special leave, the period when workers are forced to take part in their licence. It is well known that insurance contributions are to be suspended for businesses, without saying that it is not a measure that may be necessary. In other words, on the one hand, the employer is relieved, on the other hand, the worker pays with his licence, which is wages, pays, is his work. It is known that normal leave, like any licence as a whole, forms part of insurance protection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. The introduction of every measure that is currently in existence must be linked to everything we have said before, and the questions for us remain unanswered, Minister. The argument about sharing the costs I have said, which has been used by you today, which has been adopted by the GFCM, puts the profits on the one hand and the burden of survival on the other. Workers must defend the remaining minimums and not allow the present risk of the coronary pandemic to be overturned. We therefore call on the Government to consider the responsibilities of the majority of workers and to impose measures to be imposed by the business groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u10	The speaker of the Greek Solution, Maria Athanasios, has the floor for three minutes for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. According to yesterday's papers, both in the press, Minister, and in the media, measures are being considered - it says - to facilitate parents by granting special leave from the Ministry of Labour, Home Affairs and Finance. The solution is designed to implement a mixed system whereby part of the licence will be covered by the normal leave to which each worker is entitled, while another party will be charged by the employer and the State. Why should each insured person be counted against his or her normal leave? We are faced with an emergency situation and are given special permission. So, what's the mixed system for? It should normally only be a special purpose, namely not to count, to prevent situations that will be borne by our tourism. Without proper permission, how are the workers going to do, if everything goes well, tourism? In addition, what happens and where workers are forced to abstain from work, because for preventive reasons, stop each company, offices or companies which they work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much Mrs Maria Athanasios. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u13	I said at the beginning of my position that it is time to unite our forces, not the pandemic and this emergency crisis for Greece, the Greek people and the world community, to be an opportunity to use them for ideological and political purposes. I refer to both parties which convergingly converging. I have seen a matching of views of the Greek Solution and the Communist Party. And I am now addressing the Greek solution, and I say: the Communist Party has its views over time. But you must be more careful. Because when I hear your leader's position in general, he's more responsible in such matters. At the moment, the government takes a decision, a special-purpose licence, and you see that there is agreement and convergence between the social partners who are workers and employers. And we say that weight, responsibility, we will all deal with it together, state, business and workers. So I say to you that if we decide to put all the burden on business, the economy will collapse. I'm telling you. And I am addressing you more, because the Communist Party of Greece has another view that all groups can do so, forgeting that 95% of our businesses are small and medium-sized up to 10 people. Are these the big groups? But we said it was a difficult day. Let's get over it. I would like to say to you that the special purpose licence as a decision will be incorporated into the act of legislation which will today see the light of publicity. That's the first. It is a balanced decision that we are trying to balance the burden and the cost of these decisions between the state, companies and workers. Everyone together, united, will overcome the crisis. Secondly, the measures are temporary. They're not permanent. The suspension of the 'ERGANIS', Mr Katsotis, which will be in fact the 'ERGANI', which I have set up and should have been a pretext for all the changes to the working time - which you are saying quite rightly - will be carried out in an accountable manner. Of course, there will also be abuses and arbitrary practices. In such an environment, no one can be absolutely sure when we operate in an accountable manner. But we make the decisions we make temporarily. Then the "ERGANI" will come back and will pre-open the entire system of hours once we get out of this difficult moment and the difficult crisis. So it is not permanent, but it is something that is temporary in the face of the crisis. With regard to the leave for a specific purpose announced, it concerns both the public and the public workers, workers and workers in the private sector. It is a three-day leave, which at the time the worker is taken will be forced to take another day from his normal leave. 1/3 will be imposed by the company, 1/3 will be imposed by the state and 1/3 by the worker on his normal leave. This is the government's decision, and this also satisfys the spirit of the convergence of the social partners that have agreed, both workers and employers. And from here, from this step forward, I would like to say congratulations to the maturity of the social partners, which were, in fact, two days ago at the debate table at the Ministry of Labour, agreed that we would jointly and unitedly overcome this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. We move to the fifth under number 575/9-3-2020 on a topical question by Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou on the second question of the Magnesia MP of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Zopherous the image of the labour market in Magnesia'. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I was waiting for another question. Mr. Kegeroglu, I've been waiting. Keep going, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u16	Until he develops his timely question, you will find it, Minister. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I obviously endorse your initial position that the treatment of this pandemic is required - and it is obviously a given - the harmony of all political forces and is not a question of ideological or party controversy. But let us change a little bit on this timeline that I have tabled, because, Minister, according to the official OAED figures for January 2020, the total number of registered unemployed has increased. This negative picture is reflected, Minister, in the clearest way in Magnesia, where, according to the elements of the "ERGANI" system, partial and rotating work is taking place in new jobs with 56.33%. At the same time, redundancies in January show an extremely worrying growth trend. According to the same figures, the recruitment announcements in Magnesia have reached two thousand six hundred eighty-one, while the departures to three thousand two hundred eighty-three. The thousands of two hundred and thirty-six voluntary departures shown by the "ERGANI" system are, in fact, redundancies. According to the new figures, the six hundred and seventy-five of these redundancies relate to complaints of contracts of indefinite duration, which is extremely worrying, Mr Brutsis, but also to the way in which employers now think and operate. As regards fixed-term contracts in Magnesia, a thousand three hundred seventy-two expired and were not renewed. My appreciation, Minister, is that what I have mentioned to you is not an accidental result but a consequence of specific political options. I therefore believe that the flag of flexibility and generalized arbitraryness on the labour market has been very high again. So on the basis of the data I have given you, the question, Minister, is a simple and simple one: Is there any intention on the part of a Ministry to intervene in stopping this growing picture of unemployment in Magnesia? Have you worked out concrete measures to bring about a complete reversal and reversal - if you wish - of this image, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u19	Mr Micopulus, thank you very much for the question. You are giving me the opportunity to put a little wider on the issues of employment, unemployment in our country and the labour market. I want to assure you - because I want to unravel the thread from the beginning in the short time I have - that Greece has passed a profound crisis through the budgetary constraints of the memoranda. The weakest link, the labour market, was hit at that time. Unemployment has escalated at an unprecedented height and, indeed, through strong reform interventions launched in 2012, unemployment began to degrade and today we are at a low 16.3% by measuring ELSTAT in December 2019. Because the only indicator under which we can assess the level of unemployment in our country is the reliable index of ELSTAT, because it is the only indicator that measures unemployment. So we see that from 18.5%, which was unemployment in December 2018, it fell to 16.3% in December 2009, i.e. we had more than 2.2% reduction in unemployment by comparing the period of 2018 to 2019 for the corresponding month of December. This is a reality that no one can question, which shows that the trend of declining continues, as started in 2013. In 2013, de-escalation began, continued in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and the budget says the goal is to reach 15% at the end of 2020. "ERGAN" shows other elements. "Photos" means only the hired employment, which is accurately captured and through the possibility that this innovative tool has, we can also see the data per region and per county, as in the Magnesia Prefecture to which you refer. It is a pioneering tool which, in fact, "lights" regions, branches and businesses and per county and per region and across the territory. Also, within "ERGANI" one can see that there are procedures, through which for example in a month one can see variations. It does not draw any clear conclusions, but it is an indicator. For example, I would like to tell you that in February of the Magnesia Prefecture, compared to last year, we had two hundred and seventy more jobs. I'm saying this because you mentioned to me in January. February, which has already been announced, went much better than the corresponding month of 2019. So, we see that we're changing. However, this is not a question, Mr Meikopoulou. The issue is that the crisis that is currently under the name of a coronary will unfortunately strike, not only financially, our country as all countries, but also the labour markets. I believe that the extension, the plans for declining unemployment, as at least we had planned in the Ministry of Labour, will be slowed down because of this crisis, which we are seeing in front of us. I wish it were mild and to face it in a very strong way, so that we could re-enter as a society, as a state, and deal with this phenomenon of unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Meikopoulou, the MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u21	Minister, the systems for recording labour and unemployment, such as the 'ERGANE' system or the OAED information system, in my opinion - and I think you will agree - are recording political choices. In other words, the growth or downward trend in unemployment rates is also directly linked to policies carried out by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance. So the question I asked you is which policies you have worked on in order to bring this picture up in Magnesia back. I think I also create a bridge here, Minister, to say this: it will be of great value to describe the landscape, the work field you receive, Mr Brutsi, because this downward trend that you described in particular for 2018 and then, and that was the result of specific political options. So the field you receive, Mr Brutsi, was this. The minimum wage increase, from 11% to 27% and the abolition of the substitute, had already been achieved. The negotiating power of workers had been strengthened by reintroduction of collective agreements. The justification for redundancies in contracts of indefinite duration was established. The protection of contract workers and the issue of their wages had been achieved. The staff were upgraded and fully upgraded and the role of the APRC was fully upgraded. A programme of five and a half thousand young scientists with postgraduate and doctoral degrees was planned and implemented to various public bodies. With these interventions, therefore, I describe to you, Minister, only in March 2019 saw a 3,74% increase in wages compared to March 2018 and a 30,000 five hundred people were insured. In the same period, therefore, the unemployment you mentioned was reduced by over two percentage points, according to ELSTAT, while in the first half of the year we had two hundred and sixty-six hundred new jobs. This picture has been captured and is a consequence of specific options. If this image is compared to the eight months that you are the Minister of Labour, what choice have you made? There has been a deterioration in the APRC, the reasoned dismissal has been abolished, the framework of collective bargaining has been dismantled once again since 2012, authorising you to decide which companies can apply sectoral collective agreements, reduce wages and proceed with redundancies, and the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration has been effectively abolished again. These works therefore have a specific imprint and the records made by the "ERGANI", as well as by the data provided by the OAED. All this, of course, also has a direct impact on the labour market. Already in the first few months of governance, a negative record of eighteen years has been recorded with losses in October of twenty - six thousand positions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Magnesia, then, Minister, is a typical example of the situation in the private sector. I think the numbers I mentioned speak for themselves. But I will also make a comparative report on the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u22	Hang up, Mr. Meikopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u23	I shall close, Mr President, with a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u24	Please close with one sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u25	Since Generis is a difficult month, since the beginning of the year marks the end of contracts, I would like to say that both January 2018 and January 2019 in Magnesia, the total of departures has not exceeded two thousand seven hundred five redundancies, while in January 2020, we have three thousand two hundred eighty three redundancies, a record number, I think, in relation to the data in the previous years, Mr Brutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u26	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although I said not to enter political controversy, I am unfortunately obliged to start by saying that SYRIZA is once again out of place and time. All these elements which have been heard just before are a culmination of the Syrian imagination, because the discussion on labour issues, the labour market, the policies and initiatives developed by the New Democracy Government have been reflected and fully discussed here in this House and by me as Minister through timely questions but at the same time also through the legislative initiatives we have taken. And it seems that SYRIZA ignores or wants to ignore and distort reality through Parliament, but unfortunately he will get the answer and be exposed to society. Mr President, only one element can be invoked to assess and measure unemployment, only one, the trustworthy institution of ELSTAT. There's no one else. The "ERGANI" accurately captures and records the wage-earning flows, but you cannot assess the level of unemployment by ERGANIA. This is only done by ELSTAT. "ERGAN" shows you per county. I described it before to save time. I would briefly say that this has been said too many times. However, "ERGANI" - and I close with the issue of "ERGANI" - shows that, for 2020, wage-earning and full-time increased compared with 2019, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague. Secondly, the first two months of 2020, again based on ERGAN, is much better than the first two months of 2019. I live here, however, because I would also like to send a message to SYRIZA through Mr Mikopoulou. Things won't be the same from now on. The planning of degressive unemployment we have done at the Ministry of Labour cannot be observed after the pandemic and the financial and social consequences we will have at every level. I would therefore ask that we be responsible and serious, because now we cannot talk and measure policies under normal conditions. Because the pandemic was not appreciated by anyone when drawing up their own policy, which I would like to see understood and respected. This shows both the convening and the responsibility we must have as political forces. So I read from ELSTAT: July 2018, SYRIZA 19.1% unemployment, July 2019, New Democracy 17%. August 2018, SYRIZA 18.9% unemployment, August 2019 unemployment 16.9%. September 2018, SYRIZA 18.8% unemployment, New Democracy, September 2019, 16.8% unemployment. October 2018, SYRIZA 18.6% unemployment, Government of New Democracy 16.6%. November 2018, SYRIZA 18.6% unemployment, Government of New Democracy 16.5% unemployment in November 2019 and December 2018, SYRIZA 18.5% unemployment, December 2019, Government of New Democracy 16.3% unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u28	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are the elements I described before on the basis of ELSTAT, which confirm that our policies are on the right track. Unfortunately, we are declining in the budget and there is a tendency to reduce to 15%. I wish it would be satisfied! I'm terrified personally. The pandemic will have an impact on the whole economy, society and the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u30	We move to the second under number 587/10-32020 on the second question of the second question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Publication of a ministerial decision under Article 68 of Law 4635/19 on the recruitment of workers". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what you said before is that the epidemic - the pandemic now - will also have serious consequences for businesses and jobs, and that is why we need to look at concrete measures and defences so that we do not lose jobs and see the use of tools used during the heart of the crisis, in the first time, in order to maintain jobs in the neural sectors. But I come to the contents of my question which is specific. The attempt started to deal with undeclared and implied work by strengthening the role of the EIA and all the auditing mechanisms has passed through various waves. The main tool of this effort was the high - generally professed - fine that was introduced during the crisis, that of EUR 10,500, in order for us all to realise that undeclared work is an anti-competitive and anti-social phenomenon. It strengthens unfair competition between companies because it benefits those who are in breach of the laws. Not only morally but also from an economic and social point of view, they are clearly against the worker. So, from that time on, we have a normalization, I would say, in things. Undeclared and undeclared work has been considerably reduced. Today we need an improvement in the system. I say this because you, too, have introduced and voted for Law 4635, namely Article 66, which provides that the fine of EUR 10 500 can be EUR 2 000, but if the worker is hired for at least one year. I call it features. There's other cases inside. We therefore need a ministerial decision to start this. The main question is when this ministerial decision will be adopted. We are asking, of course, whether you intend to take into account specific cases such as periodic working time. For example, there are centres that work on Friday and Saturday and the law does not provide for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u32	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu. You've got a second language after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u33	I'm closing, Mr. President. In order to ensure that today's provision is binding on it, it is not insured. She prefers to pay 10,500 euros and stay uninsured. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know whether I will need a dentistry in the sense that the answer I will give to Mr Kegeroglu, whom I thank for the question, is directly answering his question. But I take the opportunity to begin by agreeing on the point of undeclared work. Our intervention in 2012-2013 - I had the pleasure and honour of working with Mr Kegeroglou in the Ministry of Labour - the unique flagship fine of EUR 10,500 per worker in case the operation is arrested with an undeclared worker, still exists as a political direction. Undeclared work for the New Democracy Government and for me personally as Minister, and now, it remains social and economic crime, because undeclared work hits at the same time three things. Firstly, it undermines labour law, directly affects workers. Secondly, it undermines unfair competition, healthy businesses, consistent businesses, and thirdly, it undermines the incomes of the insurance funds. So here we agree that we must be hit, punished for undeclared work, and we have indeed done so. I remind you of this scary indicator. With the crisis too many entrepreneurs in 2012-2014 used those workers - taking advantage of the crisis, I repeat - as an alibi, and undeclared work was carried out at 42.5% in February 2013, a glossy percentage which cannot be justified under the crisis. Because legality at work is a priority for our Government, and now and again. Today, in fact, this very harsh measure, undeclared work has been reduced under two-digit figures. It is located at around 9% or 8%, according to the audit bodies of the AAR and the AARC and the audits carried out on a percentage level. Secondly, yes, Mr Kegeroglu, things are going on. The fine of EUR 10,500 is working. It was a radical measure that worked, and that is evidenced by numbers. It worked 10,500. Today, very few businesses dare to use undeclared workers and the government's determination and the tool called "ERGANI", through which one can easily hire or dismisse and has no justification for anything other than the strict fine. Indeed, we have legislated the electronic Infringibility Register for the first time in the history of the country's labour law with the law that you said the electronic Infringibility Register and a series of other measures, so that the 10,500 fine if anyone wants to avoid it can pay 2,000 euros and at the same time hire the worker for twelve months in full employment. There was, in fact, a delay in the adoption of the decision, but I have to tell you that the Ministerial Decision I believe that today or tomorrow will come out of the Government's Globe. The relevant ministerial decision has already been made by the Ministry of Labour, it is protocol number 10694/364, it has been sent to the National Printing Office and it is a matter for the National Printing Office to come out of the ministerial decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u37	For a little while, Mr President. I do not know whether this decision has been retroactive since the day the law laid down it was in force, but because of the delay and the events mentioned by the Minister had not been adopted. It is an issue because there has been a period of time, and I do not know whether it is easy to deal with, because some workers have already been uninsured for that reason. In any case, it is a positive development. But I would like, Minister, to see, I will see it with the publication of the ministerial decision and see to the Ministry the cases that I mentioned to you, because in fact any businessman in this dilemma chooses to pay 10,500 or 3,000 or 5,000 - I do not know how much the corresponding sums are - instead of insure when the operation is periodic. And these companies are specific, and they seem to be periodicals, because they are saying so - in particular, as I said to you, they are, for example, catering centres which work only for the weekend - and this should be included in the provisions of the ministerial decision. But what concerns the whole, the large majority, is the ministerial decision you are referring to and it is good that it is already in the printing industry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u38	We continue with the sixth question under number 588/10-320 of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Application of the rule of reasonable doubt and to the engineers - old insured with full insurance to another institution, in addition to the Pension Fund for Public Works of Workers' and Labour'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our country's insurance system from over thirty main and subsidiary funds now has one single body, and indeed the last law you have passed and subsidiary insurance has been incorporated into the main. We therefore have a change of data in relation to the insurance institutions. There has been no corresponding adjustment either of the provisions or of the services. So I would say that we need a more general X-ray of what is in place, so that we can have integration and functions and provisions. The specific issue I put to you is double insurance, essentially and the reasonable doubt that needs to be addressed. There was a law that came after Law No.4387, Law No. 4554/2018, which dealt with the reasonable doubt and provided that in cases where we have double insurance for various reasons and because of the provisions of previous laws, but where insurance is one and the job is one, the Minister with a ministerial decision can in fact exempt the imposition of premiums for operations which were not in practice operational. In order to make this more understandable, with a ministerial decision adopted in 2018, old journalists, a major double-security category, have been relieved of the extra premium payments. A second category was the newly insured people since 1993 and after having had this problem, and of course the category of farmers who had micro-activity - cafeteria, grocery stores or anything else - in their area and who TEBE or OAU, then also claimed their insurance in addition to the OGA insurance. There is a great category of people who are engineers of CSMEDA, in general the insured, for example, who work in the public sector - as is the case on the occasion of asking this question - where, since the day they were hired and indeed, many of them without the engineer's status, but as managers, have never worked as engineers, fully insured in the public sector....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u40	The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u41	...with full insurance and the CRL comes - according to the current, of course - and says that this EUR 1500,000 retroactively paid out of what it owes for its activity, because there is an abduction, legal provision, which obliges the CRL to do this act and the energy. So what are we asking? The adoption of a ministerial decision, in accordance with Law 4554/2018, for the category of acting insured persons, who are public employees and are fully insured...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u42	The Minister got it. He'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u43	...and do not have to be insured in the CSMEE for any profession of a freelance professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u44	Mr Minister, here you have the floor for three minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I will try to be as brief as possible to the colleague who is asking this question. I mean, indeed, that Law 4670/2020 is a part of our country's insurance system. It is the insurance reform that we voted on about a month ago in Parliament and which for the first time was accompanied by a proportionate study, which shows that our country's insurance system is now viable by 2070, which was never in the past, an insurance law accompanied by a proportionate study. Secondly, this insurance reform fully meets the demands and unconstitutional effects of the Council of State. He is therefore fully in line with the demands and decisions of the Council of State, he is moving on the rails of justice. Thirdly, it is the first insurance reform after ten to twelve years, which comes and has no reduction in pensions, only increases. Fourthly, it strengthens the sense of insurance consciousness, fosters insurance consciousness. Above all, all young people in our country with thirty years and a year or more will see increases in their pensions in relation to the past, while at the same time - I will repeat this twice, because there is a deliberate misinformation through the media - through our insurance reform is not affected by age limits. I repeat, the age limits are not affected, and this is the answer to those who are trying to alter reality, deceive and create new uncertainties towards society. At the same time, with insurance reform, we have attempted something more important. We have completed the cycle of our country's largest insurance institution, the one and only now, of the new ECA, which is moving towards digital transformation, with the aim, in 2020, of achieving the great success of digital pensioning. It is the new e - EVA that we are attempting its digital transformation, unifying all remaining insurers in our country, i.e. the one-off and the AS. I repeat, administrative and organizational. Therefore, this social security reform, which, by 2070, shows an absolute balance, so that all pensions can be guaranteed, in the medium to long term, our country's insurance system in a financially balanced manner is not at risk, it is guaranteed pensions and, most importantly, we are reaching a share of GDP in pension expenditure on the average of European countries. That's the picture today. Of course, the issue raised by Mr Kegeroglu and other issues, which concern individual issues, are issues open to us in the Ministry of Labour, which we now have, in peace and in the time ahead, can be assessed individually and specifically, and if ministerial decisions are needed, which are in line with the law, of course, and we will also respect them, on a condition that there is a budgetary balance in the system. We will never jeopardise the budgetary balance of the system, in the face of the need to do something to be pleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u46	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for his denology. Please don't get over time like in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u47	I talked two minutes and forty-six seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Kegeroglu, you spoke three minutes and forty-six seconds. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u49	If you're so typical, I'll be too. What the Minister said is a different question. I didn't ask that kind of question to analyse us with the insurance system. He lost three minutes of his time to talk about another matter. It was useful, of course, to inform the citizens, but let them do so with a press release rather than with me. If you've followed the contents, that's exactly what happened. I have a specific question. No.4554 has been voted, Minister. There is this issue, the failure of the state to inform people in reasonable time. This failure has been a long time since 1986 in the specific case that I mentioned. This man ended the Polytechnic School and was appointed administrative officer at the Ministry of Defence. While it is, all the years in the Ministry of Defence and pays the Ministry of Defence normally contributions and he comes the CEAO, making use of a legal provision, a decision that has been left from the past and says "you have to come to pay 130 grand". That's the point. You say: individual case. On the occasion of individuality, I say to you, it concerns all those insured in the CSMEDA, who have been employed in the public or private sector and many of them, in another capacity, have been paid and normally paid for insurance contributions and are told to pay insurance contributions as an engineer, who has never exercised the profession or the service he has been affected because there is a legal decision. I tell you that you must keep it and tell me to see sustainability. So illegal money will you get from the man? What's gonna be sustainable? Is this category going to save the viability of the insurance? I believe that it had not been studied as much as it should have been and it is not just journalists or farmers who work at the same time. They're people of all categories. I am telling you these two categories because they have already been dealt with by ministerial decisions, they do not even want a joint ministerial decision. I therefore ask you, as you have a duty, which the previous Minister did not adopt and did not adopt - the proposed ministerial decision, which will be in accordance with Article 3 of Law 4554, which in the case of the second paragraph states that the reasonable doubt can be demonstrated by the following criteria: 'where there is complete insurance for an employed or self-employed person during the same period in which contributions have been charged by an employed or self-employed person'. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour has been violating the law since 2018, which does not issue this ministerial decision. So, as far as this illegality is concerned, I asked you the question and I would like you, Minister, to restore, as I know you have this perception, the order in this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u50	It's understood, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u51	Because, Mr President, the Secretary-General has asked that the third question should not be raised and that it should be held next Thursday in order to facilitate the meeting, of course, and I have no objection, provided that we have good answers next Thursday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u52	You're making it easier for us and thank you. Minister, you have the floor to answer for absolutely three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to assure Mr Kegeroglu - he already knows it by serving the Ministry of Labour - that there is no intention of the Ministry of Labour to operate in a rationale that undermines legality or does not adopt ministerial decisions based on the prefecture. This is the basic principle with which not only the Ministry of Labour operates, but also all ministries, legality on the basis of the law. So, Mr Kegeroglu, to whom you refer, I have the answer on behalf of the services. Of course, I am obliged, if you ask me, to answer what is said by the administration, that is, by the Ministry of Labour. I would like to assure you, however, that if it is an issue which is relevant and goes beyond administrative services and we will of course see it. I read: "According to insurance law and before the application of the law. The application, exemption, exemption and parallel insurance of up to 31-12-2016 was regulated by a specific institutional framework for each of the insurers including a presidential decree, specific provisions and ministerial decisions. In the light of the above, and in order to determine whether each insurance category — where applicable, falls within the scope of the provision and in order to avoid circumvention of the provision, criteria — have been adopted for the safe treatment of the keys. 1. Proven full insurance to an insurance institution. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The insurance to the second institution must be self-evident and not voluntary. In the case of voluntary registration, the insured person has participated in all administrative procedures for placing him and may be the recipient of insurance contribution notices. 3. Proven insurance of the same activity in two entities. 4. In the case of voluntary registration, there must be a proven expression of objection in respect of an insured person who has remained unanswered by the service. 5. The issue of an administrative document which creates a reasonable confidence in the insured person that the obligation to apply to another institution is not pending unless it has voluntarily broken down its compulsory insurance. In the context of the above, and following the recommendations made by the administration of the ECA and the agreement of the Social Security Council, relevant decisions of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity setting out specific categories for which the conditions and conditions for deletion of debts, interest, surcharges or any other charges are applicable. In any event, given the above conditions one to five, the inclusion or not within the scope of the provision shall be subject to the judgement of the competent institution concerned. As regards the engineers of the former TSMEDEE, cases of compulsory parallel insurance up to 31-12-2016 arise for old members of the former TSMEDEE appointed to the State until 31-12-1992, namely, old members of the former TSMETE engineers appointed to the public until 31-12-1992 in a special capacity other than that of the engineer, who under the provisions of Article 6 of Development Law 2326/1940 were insured up to 31-12-2016 in the former TSMEDE on account of their status and paid free-of-charge contributions and were compulsory in the public sector, in accordance with the provisions of Law 2326/1940 and paid to it by employees. Second, the old insurers of the former CSMEDE, engineers appointed to the public until 31/12/1992 in a specialty of PET engineers, who, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of development law 2326/1940, were insured up to 31/12/2016 to the former CSMEDE on account of their professional experience and paid contributions by employees and were required to the State, in accordance with the provisions of No 169/2007 and paid to them also.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u54	I'm testifying for the record the law, who doesn't say these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u55	We continue with the third under number 584/10-3-2020 on the second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Continuance of the grant of the Housing Subsistence Benefit to uninsured over-aged expatriates from the former Soviet Socialist Republics Association (ESDP)". The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna Michailidou, will answer. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for two minutes to put your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, housing allowances to uninsured ultra-aged expatriates from the former Soviet Union have been an important breath of survival for them, and that is where I want you to stand. Sponsored by OTA until 31/12-2018. Although with KYA 66856/22-2-2018 from 1-1-2019 it was entrusted to the Social Solidarity Beneficiary, OPEKA, the granting authority and the specific allowance, no application has been accepted, not renewed, has been approved so far. This has the painful effect of having, on the one hand, uninsured ultra-aged homosexuals led to impoverishment, on the other hand, household owners, who continue to reside in economic tolerance, depriving the minimum income of the rent. On the basis of the above, Madam Secretary, what urgent action will the Government take to immediately activate the procedures for examining, approving and, respectively, obviously payment for all applications for housing assistance to uninsured ultra-aged expatriates from the former Soviet Union who have been submitted since 1-1-2019 to OPEKA. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u57	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The housing allowance for uninsured overtime was established by a ministerial decision in 1985 and was extended to pairs of uninsured overtime in 1987. The protection field of these decisions takes over the lonely insecure and economically impossible older people aged sixty-five years or more, as well as their couples, who are lacking a proven property - hence housing aid - and are staying in rent. The financial assistance shall be paid as a housing allowance in the form of a rental, in accordance with the above joint Ministerial Decisions. The last of these ministerial decisions were adopted in implementation of the Decree-Law of 1972, repealed by Law of 2003, without the above Ministerial Decisions being repealed at the same time. For this reason, and despite this abolition, the allowance continued and still granted today and was granted to implement these ministerial decisions. Already under Article 58 of Law 4488/2017, the repealed article of the 1972 Decree, which I have just told you, was reinstated by regulating the corresponding content of the protection of uninsured ages for their housing assistance. The municipalities were responsible for payment of this allowance and for granting and administering it were designated by the OPEK law itself, the Agency for the Preferential Benefits of Social Solidarity. This allowance was introduced thirty-five years ago, at a time when the country did not have its social solidarity and social policy allowances today, the social tools, i.e. the modern welfare state, highlighting the decisions adopted in the 1980s as outdated and at the same time inapplicable, especially after the OPEK has been managed. So what's going on today? That is why the immediate introduction of legislation is being created and introduced so that, on the one hand, it continues to provide the benefit of the OPEKA and, on the other hand, facilitate the processing of new applications, since, so far, the OPEKA has not operated a separate information platform for this allowance, and on the other hand, it has made it very difficult to settle and distribute applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Stoltides, the KIC MP for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, obviously the people who received the allowance met the conditions. There is now a question here. It will be good in your dentext, if it is apparent from your protology that the issue will be resolved in time to become a little more clear, because the submission of applications anyway makes it difficult to go to the CRL because it has not been answered either positively or negatively, i.e. it has been blocked for over a year and a half. It is very important that we look at the issue, precisely because it was necessary for survival. That's where we have to stand. There is nothing else to be postponed in any case, in our view. We must also make another point at this point that the new insurance, which was voted on in the previous period, for a very long time - with these conditions and conditions - for workers who will not be able to establish insurance rights for pensions and who will be in such situations. In this sense, we have placed ourselves in the respective bill that it is necessary to fight to overthrow this barbaric reinsurance bill. However, as set out in your philosophy, I think we should become more specific because this is an urgent matter. It's purely a matter of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u62	Thank you for that and let me tell you that we are moving on the same lines. I will concentrate on the part of the housing assistance for which both OPEKA and the Ministry of Welfare are responsible, that is, the Ministry of Welfare within the Ministry of Labour. I would remind you that it is an allowance, which is still given, as you have rightly said, to all the beneficiaries. The problem is the approval of new applications. That is where I want to say that we are moving immediately and I will tell you very quickly how we are moving immediately. I would like to remind you, however, that we - and this is why I say that we share what you say - share the benefits of mountain regions which had not been paid for two years - for 2018 and 2019 - before one, a month and a half before we passed legislation, in which we also put duty free and unconnected to this allowance, and we pay it retrospectively, because we are also moving on the same line, we feel it is absolutely essential for the most vulnerable of us to be able to obtain this minimum aid from the state. So, as with the allowance for mountainous disadvantaged areas, we have come and put the tax-free and the irresponsible and we pay it for 2018 and 2019 when the previous government did not pay it, we will move on the same line for the outstanding applications for housing assistance. On this issue you raised an issue, which is important, that for a potential beneficiary, who does not belong to the category of uninsured super-employee, privileged choices made by the state to help him, it is to apply for the minimum guaranteed income and for the housing allowance. Accordingly, if that beneficiary enters the category of uninsured super-secured, he may apply for the allowance of uninsured super-secured and, respectively, with the housing allowance to apply for that allowance, the housing allowance of uninsured super-secured super-subsidy. What we are seeking is to homogenise the platforms we have, not to have a thousand small platforms everywhere and to make it difficult, the role and functioning of the OPEKA. We need to see how definitely reinforced the insecure super-employee can enter the housing allowance platform and what can be done to get a couple enhanced - I say again - with the minimum guaranteed income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u63	We are completing the cycle of the current questions for today with the first under number 573/9-320, the first-round question, by Mr. Korinthias Korinthias, Mr. Georgios Psychogios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To the deadlock the Corinthian farmers from the problems in the wine growing and olive cultivation of the county." The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Makis Voridis. Mr. Psychoyote, you have the floor for two minutes to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Needless to say, I think we should start from the fact that we are all together in dealing with the coronary. The measures announced must be respected by everyone without exceptions, as well as the Turkish provocation which violates international law and the rule of law on its territory. I come quick to my question. Corinthia farmers are in a state of deadlock, after seeing, day after day, that their income for 2019 is lost. The causes are many. The production of olive oil is less than expected and the prices of the product are even below the starting value. Earlier the two-month period of August - September they saw the prices and the table grape formed even below the cost of production and this is done for the second consecutive year. At the same time, in 2019, the prefecture was affected by rainfall which caused significant damage to the vineyards and largely not covered by ELGA, but also damages mainly to olive cultivation. The problem tends to take more general dimensions for the economy of the county, as the reduced income of farmers has an impact on other sectors as well as on freelance professionals and other categories of citizens, which are complementary to them. The main causes are the absence of market controls, as well as the imposition of lower prices by traders on producers by pretextically invoking international competition and, on the other hand, the failure to deal with the delayed damage to the wood, as the state was unwilling to intervene. You therefore ask, Minister, what the resources to support the incomes of Corinthian producers intend to activate to deal with these problems, of course, in view of the fact that with the coronary there are also more impacts and effects on both demand and the wider chain, but also for when the ELGA payments are planned for 2019. I would like to remind you that, through de minimis aid, which is known as de minimis, in order to compensate for the loss of income from a price reduction, in 2019 around two and a half million euros were paid to the producers of table grapes, but also took steps to promote products, which are very important and have been established on international markets - both grape and olive oil - in recent years, as well as the fact that ELGA paid some 27 million allowances from 2015 to 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. In order to be a little more productive and not to open up the wider price debate, I will answer the specifics on which you are asking me. With regard to ELGA and compensation for the damages of 2019, there have been a hundred ninety-eight announcements, three thousand two hundred ninety-three statements of damage. The findings have already been disclosed, so this is specified. EUR 493,000 in compensation has already been paid. We believe that the compensation procedure for all or almost all of it at the end of June will be completed by mid-July. Therefore, what is compensated in terms of ELGA will be compensated. There are other damages which, as you know, are not covered. These are damages, which are mainly caused by fungal insults. For these, consideration should be given to whether they can be included in CIRR compensation programmes. This, however, each time is judged by the size and extent of the injury. Because you made a reference to the homicide, the homicide in Corinthia is judged to be absolutely successful. The damage, which we had on the part of the coroner, was limited to less than 10% of all production and therefore, from this side, there does not appear to be any question of fraud in Corinthia. I would also like to say to you that it is important to protect and compensate the so-called 'active protection' issue. I am happy to see that Corinthia is making use of this possibility, this programme. There are a hundred and sixty-nine files with a level of funding of 2,306,000 euros for active protection, quartz protection. There is a second call for this project, which will eventually reach a total of EUR 40 000 000. Another support mechanism, as you know - I do not know if you were referring to it - is, of course, support for producer organisations which can and are part of programmes. Part of the olive growers have exploited this possibility and received funds, which are mainly related to the promotion of products, but also to support production in general. It's done this in Corinthia. We are talking about a sum that has been received, of the order of 412.359 euros. This is in the first phase of ELGA. I will now see what theme you want to bring back and, if necessary, focus on dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Psychogios has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are obviously referring to the part of the promotion of products through producer organisations, interbranch organisations and other bodies, which is also very important for us and must also be strengthened, promoted at European level. However, I would again like to focus on the de minimis part of aid. You know them. It's the de minimis. Is there any such provision by your government, as was done in 2019, for similar reasons, not covered by the ELGA or due to the price reduction, in order to relieve these producers and the entire chain around them? I would also like to stand by what you said about the causes that are not covered by the ELGA, mainly because of the climate crisis, with extreme weather effects in seasons of fruit growth and fruitage, such as hails and heavy rainfall in the summer or the long periods of high temperatures and annoyance in winter, which often cause damage to production and trees, so that farmers' economic damage is multiple. How, then, will you address the issue of the need to provide adequate scientific support to producers given that the protection programmes, because of the climate crisis, must take account of the new circumstances? I heard what you said about anti-hailing. It had started from the previous government and must continue now. I heard there's gonna be a new invitation. However, I would like you to tell me a few more things about the issue of the ELGA regulation, if you are planning a review in order to adapt to the new circumstances and to cover a new cause, in order to maintain and protect producers and their redistributive character and not to go to private insurance solutions. Secondly, a proportionate study had been carried out on the effects of climate change. Do you have any information on where it is and where it will be completed about the consequences of this whole situation, which is created worldwide, but is it also about Greece? Are you also prepared through the Rural Development Programme to go ahead with measures on the small irrigation dams, which, due to lack of rainfall, will help to tackle the phenomenon and support local societies? Finally, is there anything else, in relation to both the staffing of the ELGA, where, according to various information and publications, there is a weakening of both experienced staff and people who choose mobility and that will have a serious impact on its functioning? I would remind you again - I am closing with this - that from 2011 to 2014 the contributions to ELGA were 23.668.000 and the compensation of 11.320,000, while from 2015 to 2019 with 22.049,000 contributions we had 27,500,000 allowances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u69	The Minister has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u70	You have raised - as I understand it - mainly the issue of compensation, the functioning of the ELGA and the various compensation mechanisms that we have. Isn't that right? Firstly, I should like to reply in general to the de minimis. What's my approach? The de minimis is minor allowances. They have an entirely subsidiary character. They must be used as such, when there is no other compensation mechanism, but also when an event occurs entirely exceptional and unforeseen, which could not be taken into account in farming practice. We must also give our full consent: de minimis is not full compensation. It is, in fact, limited compensation, which is simply aimed at strengthening the producer's income to continue to grow. Therefore, they do not aim at full compensation. What I'm going to do this year is to see how this year will turn out in terms of damage. I'll see what it is that is covered in total by the ELGA and the PES mechanism. And towards the end of the year I will decide what is going to happen in the country as a whole for de minimis. So anyone who has de minimis requests - and must submit them - must know that these will be judged and examined at the end of the year. These are de minimis. The second thing I would like to say is that you raised the point that the regulation should be added to and that the ELGA should cover more. That is where you raised the question of the proportionate study. You know that I have great respect for what Members are doing and how matters are presented, especially for their constituencies, and I understand that many times they are devices for transferring demands. I think, however, that Members also have a duty to explain a number of issues to producers, who receive reasonable, fair demands and anguish many times. Why am I saying these introductory words? Because a first answer is: why did SYRIZA not make it for four and a half years? It's a question, isn't it? The answer isn't that he didn't want to. The answer is that the ELGA has delivered us to a specific financial situation. To add causes, when this cannot really be covered by the budget, it is like paying off the ELGA budget, shaping a big problem. It is not, in other words, that they were bad people in your own government and they did not want to put any more causes. In fact, your government was also trying to shape a sustainable shape. Second, let's get something straight. Never in ELGA will they enter and they should not enter and they will not enter fungiological or other insults, which have to do with the good cultivation practices that producers must follow. Incidentally, this is not done in any agricultural insurance system. Why? In fact, this would lead to producers not following growing practices and going directly to the compensation procedure. So that's never gonna happen and it's never gonna happen and it's never gonna happen anywhere. The third, which I would like to tell you, relates to the proportionate study. That must never be said in this Chamber again. Because, for four years, SYRIZA has been talking about a proportionate study, which will rationalise or help to rationalise the ELGA, and this study has not just been carried out, not only has it not only been prepared, but it is not simply in the process of being made, not just by any competition has been opened for it, but there is a decision of the ELGA board, not to make the study, but to look for the conditions under which the study will take place. Now forget about the analogy study. It's over. Nothing ever existed. It was just a rhetoric for the ball to go further. What we have done is that we have set up a committee. I'm telling you straight away. You don't like SYRIZA, but we in the New Democracy like it. We also have a mandate from the Greek people, because we have said so. We have therefore set up a committee involving service actors, ELGA people, the people of the Ministry and the people of the insurance market, to see what potential for the overall reform of the agricultural insurance system are. This is the end of her work. It will deliver an initial assessment now, i.e. by the end of March, how the situation is shaped and it will probably continue to work. I have said, however, that I will present by June 2020 my position on the reform of the ELGA system. In there we'll discuss all this. We will discuss the regulation, we will discuss the contribution, we will discuss the advances, we will discuss the time for payment of compensation. We will discuss the mechanism for determining the allowances and the auditors and how to objectively target him, we will discuss the relationship of all this with the IACC. We shall therefore discuss a number of things, such as internal contribution justice. We will also discuss whether private insurance can be involved in the direction of improving insurance. So this is something I will present to you by June 2020. Until then - in the next three months - in fact, what we are going to do is to continue working underneath, however, very difficult conditions. For I must also ask the President of the Committee on Production and Trade, who is here and listens to us, Mr Vlavo, to come from the committee - Mr Colleague - to present the situation in which he is present. To present the picture we have received from the budgetary point of view, because it is very important to know where we are and how we are going to go. What we do is not ideological or because we like it. It is something that has to do with the need for efficient management and provision of serious insurance to our producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u71	The second under number 572/9-3-2020 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Aid for conversion into organic practices and methods in agriculture in 2017”, is not discussed due to a blockade by parliament. The fourth under No 571/6-3-2020 topical question by the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Vassiliardos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Request for compensation for the Diselgate scandal" will not be discussed after consultation of the MP with the Minister. Also, the first with number 574/9-320 appropriate question from Pelion Pelion of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "The course of the procedures for the construction of the new Judge in Edessa" will not be discussed with the Minister in consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We will have a short break and then we will come back on the legislative agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment "Trade Marks - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 5 March 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on principle and on articles. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u73	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Creation of a Donation Contract between the Joint Benefit Foundation under the name "Alexandros S. Onassis", the anonymous company called "ARIONA GRAS", an anonymous company of artistic and cultural events, technical building" and the Greek State. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Antoniadis, has the floor for ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish we could limit ourselves for the reasons you know. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, good morning. We are now discussing in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Trade marks - incorporation of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and other provisions'. The rationalisation of industrial property rights can undoubtedly strengthen innovation, technological development and have the effect of economic development. The lack of adequate protection for industrial property rights is a disincentive to research, since, without it, no one can exploit the new knowledge it creates, and that is why it has no incentive to invest in research and innovation. On the other hand, excessive protection of industrial property rights leads to legal monopolies and restricts the dissemination of knowledge and competition. The protection of trade marks should be compatible with the strengthening of competition and should not lead to restriction. Obviously, a trade mark cannot be overprotected, but neither can it be vulnerable. It is a golden incision that will help the proper functioning of the economy. In this context, rational legal protection for trademarks strengthens market diversification and competition, as it allows companies to claim a greater market share through improved quality, innovation and product prices, better meeting the needs of consumers as envisaged. Greece, as a member of the European Union, apart from the national trade mark, also has the same of the European Union. It is not possible for either of the trade marks to have more power or to have more protection, since both of them perform the same trading and economic function. The European Union's trade mark system is considered the world's most modern. It adopts the latest economic science conclusions on the influence of intellectual property rights on economic development. It is already an international standard that all countries, even those not members of the European Union, seek to converging legislatively. As it is clear, the convergence of the national trade mark with the European Union's mark will enhance the confidence of foreigners, who have trade and investment in Greece at a time when very critical for the country, where investment from abroad is a pilot of development and will lead to a definitive exit from the economic crisis. The proposed draft law seeks, on the one hand, to incorporate Directive 2436 of 2015 on trade marks and, on the other, to bring the national trade mark into line with the European Union trade mark system, regulated by Regulation 1001/2017. Directive 2436/2015 introduces new institutions that enhance competition, such as by limiting the protection of unused trade marks by establishing a notice of use in all judicial procedures for trade marks or by limiting trade marks, which include elements that lack discretion and, in particular, by providing that the description of the goods and services for which the trade mark is protected must be specific and specific. At the same time, the Directive provides greater scope for diversification on the market through the patenting of new, non-traditional forms of trade marks, provided that they have a distinctive ability, by abandoning the requirement of graphics as an essential condition for the protection of the trade mark and by introducing the new institution of certification marks. These are all instruments to strengthen market diversification and, ultimately, competition. The draft law seeks to strengthen the international uniformity of the legal texts on trade marks. The provisions of Regulation 1001/2017 on the European Union trade mark have also been taken into account and an effort has been made to follow the wording of the respective provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In order to enable civil courts to bring an action for annulment of the trade mark, the entire jurisdiction for the annulment of the trade mark must be given to transfer from the administrative courts to the civil courts. Otherwise, the unity of the judgment is divided and conflicting judgments are created in the same cases and between the parties themselves by the political and administrative courts. In other words, the application for annulment of the trade mark brought by the civil courts could be dismissed, but the application for annulment of the trade mark, brought to the administrative committee and to the administrative courts. This possibility seeks to prevent Article 94(3) of the Constitution. I would also like to stress that, in order for an indication to be a trade mark, it must be possible to present it in the register in a clear, accurate, self-evident, comprehensible, comprehensible, lasting and objective way to enable the competent authorities and the public to clearly and accurately identify the protection to which the proprietor is entitled. An important innovation is the possibility, for the purpose of guaranteeing new, non-traditional forms of trade, since, of course, they have the distinctive ability. They aim primarily at ensuring free competition and preventing it from being registered as a trade mark and unilaterally selling an indication that all competitors need to use, creating distortions of competition and creating unjustified monopolistic rights. A new law must always take into account the pre-existing situation and do not cause more problems than it intends to solve. In this context, under Article 24, the new law introduces a different form of administrative protection for earlier trade marks. In particular, where a new trade mark declaration is submitted, where the control of the address of the trade mark identifies a similar or similar earlier trade mark, the newest trade mark declaration shall not be rejected on its own initiative. The proprietor of the earlier mark shall, on the contrary, be informed of the opposition. If it does not exercise an opposition, then the new declaration of the trade mark shall apply. It's accepted and registered. The signal has a limited period of protection for a decade of its filing. It can be renewed in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law. If not renewed, the trade mark shall automatically cease to apply at the end of the decade without requiring any accreditation or confirmation by the registry or trade mark address. The self-lawful termination of the trade mark, after the decade, if it has not entered into a renewal, shall be for reasons of free competition, as provided for in Article 36. According to the last article 88 of the bill, the Minister for Development and Investment for Decision-making is responsible for setting up the Management Committee for Trades. I will conclude by saying that, given that Directive 2436/2015 of the European Union should have been transposed from 14-1-2019, care is taken in the last Article 89 so that some of the provisions of the law have retroactive effect from that date. In fact, the law has retroactive effect for declarations of registration, withdrawals and applications for deductions or cancellations submitted from 14-1-2019 onwards. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is inextricably linked, at the request of the Member States, to the draft regulation on the European Union trade mark submitted to the European Union Intellectual Property Group of the Council of the European Union at the end of the Irish Presidency in May 2013. Throughout the discussions there have been strong discussions in order to create a homogeneous system of trademarks throughout the single market, in response to technological developments and to be easily accessible to users. The main objectives of the directive are to harmonise the national legislation of the Member States on trade marks with the European Union Regulation on the trade mark and modernisation of the system so that it can be adapted to the era of the Internet, which leads to the deposit of new forms of trade marks, which have not been in existence until now, such as holographic, sound, traffic signals - audiovisual and others - but also new types of trade marks, which for the first time will be defined, such as certification and guarantee marks, which have already been adopted by the European Union Trade Mark Regulation. Contrary to what is true in most Member States of the European Union, but also in international practice, to date, for any new application for a trade mark, lodged by the Trade Marks Directorate automatically exercises a pre-check for any similar or similar earlier marks. Thus, a new application for a trade mark is automatically rejected by the Trade Marks Directorate if a similar or similar earlier trade mark in force on a similar or similar product is identified. According to the law, prior marks are considered not only national but also European Union trade marks, as well as international trade marks, which have not been filed in the World Intellectual Property Organisation Register and identify as their country of validity Greece. In other words, in order to accept a new trade mark application, there must be no similar or similar earlier Greek trade mark or the European Union trade mark identical or similar goods or services. This makes the process extremely difficult and extremely bureaucratic, especially for new businesses, who want to enter the market and in many cases there are trademarks, which are registered, but are no longer used, because the company may have ceased its operation. So, in order to overcome these bureaucratic and technical obstacles, the same reasons, which have led most countries for many years to abandon the old system of the self-control of the earlier trade marks and replace them with a simple system for informing the proprietors of the earlier trade marks, have led us to do the same. The Trademarks Directorate therefore exercises a pre-control. Where a pre-existing identical or similar trade mark is identified, the application for the trade mark shall not be automatically rejected, but shall be informed if it considers it appropriate and necessary that the undertaking, which makes use of that trade mark, may oppose the use of that trade mark. This is therefore a positive development. The work had been done in this area and by our government, it was also said in committee. So we agree on this issue. I would, however, like to make a reference from the Step of the House, which is about the terrible Turkish challenges, about President Erdogan's provocative rhetoric, about the F-16 over Evros and the challenges at sea. This is disgusting. Faced with the courage, against the provocativeness, against the transgression and the tsalamus of international law, we are all Greeks and all Greek women united, with a sense of patriotic responsibility, with a sense of solidarity, with a sense of democratic responsibility towards all kinds of internal patriocardia, void cries and nationalism. For this reason, the statement made by the Government representative a few days ago that SYRIZA is Erdogan's'saving horse' is disgusting, divisive and undermining in a very critical period for the country. In our view, it must be revoked, not only by Mr Petsa himself, but also by the Prime Minister himself. Turkey must know that Greeks and Greeks are united against any violation of our sovereign rights. The second point I would like to make - and I think it is also about the material of the Ministry, which we are discussing today - concerns the issue of the Koroni virus epidemic. Even late, the state took its stand and spoke clearly, leaving behind unscientific obsessions and extremes. But we are late every day, every hour and every minute in this epidemiological crisis, it counts. I really hope that in the next few days this delay will not prove fatal for the spread of the disease and for the resistance of the country's health system. We are faced with a crisis, and this requires all of us serious, discipline, not fear, not panic, but confidence in what scientists tell us and solidarity between us in order to overcome the difficulties. Over the last few days, the country has been facing the spread of the virus, which has come from China and is being broadcast very quickly across the planet. You saw yesterday the announcements from the World Health Organization. The world community and Europe in particular have hesitated and delayed taking decisive steps to suspend the spread of the virus. Unfortunately, in fear of markets, of economic and political costs, they have thought, first of all, of economic sizes, and then of societies and people. This logic is extremely short-sighted, since oligocracy eventually leads to new decisions, which have greater economic and human cost. Developments in neighbouring Italy need to be awakened and exemplified. Yesterday's statement by the Prime Minister is in this direction, but with a delay. The government must take steps to support the brave support of the national health system. I do not know whether these measures taken yesterday are sufficient or will need a second debate because many health units are already, by means of the tracking process, dissociated from existing staff. The health ministry's budget needs to be strengthened much more than the 15 million, which is planned. In our view, we need a large sum of at least 150 million in order to be able to deal with the crisis that we have before us. Of course, we need better staffing and development of intensive care units. However, exceptional economic measures must also be taken by the government to support the economy. I say this because it will now seem how nationally useful the reserve, which we left with the 37 billion reserve to this government. Because when you make politics and don't just think about the small-party interest, you have to design both for times of crisis and for times of difficulty. I say this because we are likely to have a stagnation or a retreat to the national gross product. The Greek economy is highly dependent - around 17% to 20% - on tourism, also very dependent on focus, sectors that will be critically affected. Already, since the fourth quarter of 2018, there have been signs of fatigue and slowdown in the Greek economy. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like, Minister, to explain this graph here, which came from the European Commission yesterday and shows that Greece and Finland are minus 0.7% of GDP, while the government's election commitment was for 4% growth from the first year. How did this thing happen? It wasn't because of a coronary. The impact of the coronary will be related to the first and second quarters of 2020. What I am talking about - and we are talking about - is the fourth quarter of 2019. How did 4% growth become 0.7% slowdown and 1% compared to last year? He needs an answer. This thing can't hide behind the bug. I put this table in the Minutes - it is official ELSTAT's data - so that the Minister can answer us. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Zachariadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have a major crisis in front of us, which will require extraordinary economic decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like, if I can, to have another minute. In this context, we consider it absolutely essential to suspend the procedure, which has been announced will start on 1 May 2020, with regard to the auctioning of first home expressors. We cannot call on the citizens - rightly done - to stay at home through their mobile phones and through the Prime Minister's proclamation and, at the same time, send the funds to their home to tell them "Get out of the house to get the fund", while we say "Start home to fight an epidemiological crisis". You see how and with what morality we oppose you. You see our will to compose and contribute. In similar or different difficulties, remember how you opposed the previous government. We, because we are from a different route and have a different political ethos, will stand next to society, stand up to the difficulty and be here, so that we can contribute to the extent to which we can contribute so that society can stand in this difficult crisis. After the crisis, we will have more time for political conflict and confrontation. This, of course, in no way can mean dissatisfaction and lack of political dialogue and arguments. Under no circumstances can it mean that we will receive hybrid statements, such as that of Mr Petsa, which I believe will be revoked as soon as possible by the Prime Minister himself, in order to have a civilised political dialogue, which the country needs, without divisions and divisions and without a climate of political polarisation, which at present leaves a large proportion of its citizens indifferent, not to say that it creates them a revulsion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Now Mr. Apostle Panos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes to incorporate European Directive 2015/2436 on trademarks with a delay of five years and after the deadline of 14 January 2019 set by the same directive to harmonise Greek law with European law has already expired. Finally, after the reasoned opinion was delivered by the European Commission on 10 October, and after the two months that it gave a margin to 'and five', the Government decided to introduce this very important bill to Parliament under the threat of referral to the European Court of Justice. However, the question remains the question of why this delay occurred both from the previous government and from the current government, and I have not heard any response from either the representatives of the Government or from the representatives of the Officerate of Anti-Population, especially when the changes provided for in the directive included provisions of particular interest to our country, since they are related to the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications. You understand, therefore, how interesting these provisions are for both our country and the protection of our interests, and especially for Macedonia and Macedonia, after all that has been preceded by the Prespecies Agreement and the outcome of this agreement. This is of interest to the fact that the combination of the provisions of this Directive with the provisions of Regulation 2424/2015 integrates the designations of origin and geographical indications on intangible goods by extending their scope. In fact, it is a good thing that the adoption of the directive was not chosen as a way of adopting a Presidential Decree or a ministerial decision, as was the case in the case of other directives in the past, which were not, in the most appropriate way, transposed into Greek law, but was chosen to introduce it into the House through this draft law and the availability of a sufficient number of meetings in the committee for its preparation. I would even say, on this occasion, that discussing European directives in this Chamber is usually a field of convergence of the political forces, as was the case in the draft law, which we are debating today. The reason for this is, of course, that such legislative texts are enough to be discussed in this Chamber, after they have completed their substantial structure at European level, which is usually the result of exhaustive consultation with all interested parties at a pan-European level but also a product of processing at European Commission and European Parliament level, that is to say, the product of the democratic processes that are being followed, ultimately form the so-called European acquis. This European acquis in the case of trademarks consists in the adoption of an advanced legislative framework for protection, adapted to the new data of the digital age, a framework that differs from traditional ones, which ultimately allows that factor of economic activity to function effectively in the new conditions relating to identity, identification, distinctiveness and quality of products, services and businesses. And this factor is trademarks. We should, of course, note that no legislative definition is given to the concept of trade mark by Directive 2436/2015, as is not given in the existing legal framework. What is essentially mentioned is what can be a trade mark, the conceptual elements of the trade mark that are ultimately of the greatest importance to both businesses and consumers. The most important thing is not to find a legal definition which, however, can be restrictive. The most important thing is for the brand to be able to perform its distinctive function, that is to say, to distinguish the products or services of a company from other companies' products or services, and that is important for businesses and consumers. Indeed, in this area, the transposition of European Directive 2436/2015 brings about substantial changes. The first of these is the removal of the restriction of the graphical representation as an element in the concept of the trade mark. This condition is replaced by the possibility of representation of the trade mark in any appropriate form, using the technology, provided that the representation is clear, accurate, self-evident, easily accessible, comprehensible, timely and objective. This extends the limits of this concept to include new types of declaratory, such as the combination of audiovisual media or holograms. In addition, new reasons for preventing registration of the marks are introduced. For example, no alerts shall be entered for which registration in accordance with European Union law, national legislation of the Member State or international agreements in which the Union or the Member State is a Contracting Party, where the designations of origin and geographical indications are protected. There is even more specific reference to the protection of traditional terms of wines, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights. Another element of the modernisation of the directive is that new provisions are introduced to harmonise trademark procedures in all the Member States of the European Union, but also new rules on counterfeit goods in transit. And we understand that, while technology for the definition and identification of such products is developing internationally as well as in the European Union and is being transferred to legislative texts, in our country we have not yet managed to deal with the huge problem of the scourge of the merchant, which is only time-consuming when there are police operations for some reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, some other provisions of the directive incorporated into this bill facilitate creativity and innovation by releasing them from bureaucratic obstacles. This is very important for new businesses. Only the trademarks used and not those which are not used are now protected. In this context, the procedure in force to date is abolished, i.e. an automatic pre-control in the Register of Trademarks, in order to accept the application of a new trade mark. In the discussions in the committee, of course, we also had the very crucial role that the administration must play in implementing this draft law. In this context we have in particular insisted that managers of administration with specialised administrative staff of various specialties, and familiarization with the new technologies and its characteristics, can assess the importance of these changes, are not without the effective application of these provisions. The relevant answers and assurances of the Secretary of State on the staffing of the Administrative Committee of trade marks are important, and we hope that this staffing will not be made by mere graduates of law who do not have the increased qualifications required for such tasks, nor by delegates who have no contact with the developments in the digital age and knowledge of market conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, as a whole, we consider the bill to be the reason why I said that it is moving in a positive direction, and that is why the Change Movement is voting for it both in principle and in the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr Pana, for keeping time. Ms Maria Konnaka, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. From the explanatory memorandum to the bill itself, as the majority rapporteur and the other rapporteurs have said today, there is an image of the functioning of industrial property that reverses reality, or rather shows that research, innovation and technological development are distorted within the capitalist economy, when as an incentive to invest in research it is the profit generated by industrial property. The explanatory statement states that the lack of adequate legal protection for industrial property rights is a counter-incentive to research, since without it no one can exploit the new knowledge it creates economically, so it has no incentive to invest in research and innovation. Is there, in fact, more reactionary, more irrational than that? Because it is not only reactionary but it is contrary to social progress to define as an incentive to research and innovation anything other than to meet modern social needs, anything else, that is, beyond being subjected to research into the need to liberate man. But the reality itself also proves exactly the opposite, that when the investigation is subject to profit hunting, then the direction of the investigation is controlled on the basis of this, but also any results of the investigation are not ultimately relevant to those who produce knowledge but to those who, through individual, industrial property, as it is formed, are peculiar to them. Truly, what is the fate of the investigation when its results conflict with profit? Will its results be buried or not, even if they are for the benefit of the social community as a whole, when they conflict with the interests of the business colleges that finance this research? It is contradictory, therefore, and it cannot go hand in hand with what you are saying, that the protection of research and competition within the framework of the capitalist economy is at the same time. Does the strengthening of competition with the legal protection of industrial property and trademarks in particular help, as you say, to diversify the market and improve the quality, innovation and prices of products so as to better meet the needs of consumers? Just the opposite happens. The gap between the people's needs and any results of innovation, research and technological development is constantly widening. What is happening, for example, with the technological research that is one-stopped by four, five multinationals in the sector? And the price of goods goes up, since the result of social work is a profit, it is embedded in the individual property of the multinationals, but it is also intended to serve to a lesser extent the needs of consumers, as they are more urgent for their rapid consumption, the limited use of the products, to be replaced by new ones in the hunt for the greatest profit. What are the results of patenting the industrial property of the medicinal product? Who is the patented medicine, who has the ability to buy it, and who is the addressee of the generic medicine? From this point of view, as a party, we have a total disagreement with the logic of the results of research, innovation as a product of social work, becoming the subject of individual property and being guaranteed as such, through the patenting of trademarks, patents, etc. Because these things are thus turned into expensive goods, they are accessible not to anyone who needs them, but to anyone who can afford to pay them. In this sense, the arrangements of this draft law are also being initiated, which essentially harmonise the protection of the European Union's trade marks with national trade marks. The draft law actually solves practical issues, such as the transfer of competence for national trade marks to the civil courts, so that the holder of the European Union trade mark can cancel the respective national trade marks, which were currently being examined by the administrative courts. However, any facilities in practice relate to large multinational scanning groups and the purchase of signals in order to control them and to take a lead in their use. So, with the bill, the release, as you say, is facilitated, but essentially the acquisition of rights to defective marks and thus invalid, unrenewed or inappropriate marks. Arrangements, for example, such as the obligation to prove the use of the trade mark over the last five years, speed up the concentration of trade marks in the hands of multinational groups, which more easily demonstrate the use and can respect any procedures, in relation to small enterprises, which may for long periods be difficult to deal with, subordinate and thereby lose their rights to trademarks that may have been in the past. So, how do you make it easier, as you say by small businesses, to monopolize the market that is literally swept by large colosses? We do not therefore consider that such arrangements, which are objectively unable to prevent the concentration of the trade mark in the hands of multinational groups, could operate for the benefit of the people as long as it remains an incentive to produce profit rather than to meet the expanded popular needs, which it defines and what it will be produced for, on the basis of criteria which are foreign and hostile to these needs. From this point of view, we are voting against the bill as a whole and it does not really have to stay in technical remarks, which we might be able to make, but they remain in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Vassilis Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution. Mr. Kriton Arsenis is next and Greek President Velopoulos has been asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, illegal immigration, coronary, Turkey. Greece's problems accumulate, remaining unsolved. Although the government's communication policy, combined with the adoption of our programme, the Greek Solution, does well, Greece is of interest to us rather than to our party benefits - it reduces them or better reduces them. Does the New Democracy still insist that our public debt - better not to talk about the only one in the world history of red privacy - is it sustainable? What nonsense is this request not to include expenditure on migratory and coronary in the measurement of deficits? What's the use if there's going to be? And other problems underneath the carpet? As for the 37 billion euro pillow SYRIZA constantly repeats, is there? I, at least at the previous sitting, asked the Bureau of Parliament's Budget Office and could not give me any satisfactory answers. Something has been said about EUR 9.5 billion, it has been mentioned in the repos with public bonds, somewhat confused, but ultimately it has not given any response. Obviously either there's no or it's too low. In this matter, as I said in committee on the Montenegrin bill, agreements are coming from the European Union and they oblige us to adopt them, although they are often not in favour of our country. We are, however, voting in favour of Greece when we consider it to be in favour of Greece, and otherwise we vote against them as well as the bills without any party criterion, but only national, because that is why we decided to participate in the Parliament by literally working on the night. Continuing here we have another bill from the drawers of SYRIZA, posted for consultation on January 11, 2019 and completed on February 1, 2019, that is, a year ago. However, we are really curious whether SYRIZA will vote or not for its bill, while the New Democracy confirms again and again how the state has continued, and that there are no differences with Civicism, in addition, others are ruling Greece by moving the strings from the background with the help of end-and-end Greek governments. However, it would be useful to know how much more bills have been left in drawers so that we can schedule at least our time and not be charged without any reason with depositing bills at the last minute. In today's agreement we have already said that this is yet another application of Community legislation, that is to say, something that has been decided in the European Union who knows from whom and what needs, and we simply ratify it as usual. However, by reading the first paragraph of the report, which invokes economic research on technological development and industrial property rights, it is confirmed that the draft law was created for a completely different environment for countries which have industrial production and the need to protect it. In Greece, however, industrial production has collapsed to 8% of GDP without anyone interested in reversing the trend, while the only trademark that has been made in recent years is that of Macedonia and its products which we have not managed to protect unless one considers that the great 'M' of the Prime Minister' as a trademark for Macedonia's products will solve the problem. Over the period 2013-2014, which present the latest data of EUROSTAT, Greece has reduced the registrations of 31% in total contrast with the rest of the European Union. It makes sense, of course, because there is no reason to register a badge when the economy is immersed in the crisis, when there is no great economic benefit from its occupation and even more if there is insufficient policing and protection as it is in Greece. After all, as we have pointed out dozens of times, we have several laws in Greece, their compliance is what we lack. We also mentioned that there is a major problem with trade in trade marks, with counterfeit products that, according to a study by EUROPOL and the European Union Intellectual Property Office, EUIPO, for copies of products since 2017 are estimated at 2.5% of international trade or at $461 billion in 2013. In the European Union, they are estimated at 5% of the legal trade or at EUR 85 billion. According to the same report, Greece has a very high proportion of irregular products, possibly since in our country smuggling was estimated at EUR 15 billion per annum by the president of the EBP, recalling that the smuggling from COSCO has been revealed in the port of Naples. So Piraeus, of course, will not be an exception. Also, in Greece, OLAF has fined the ‘COSCO’ of EUR 200 million for tax evasion through the port of Piraeus, while it has conducted an investigation into illegal imports of underprivileged textile products with a loss of customs duties worth EUR 202,3 million. However, the Minister for Infrastructure, in our timely question about the crime in Kastelli, except that he described us as left-wing because we are interested in the environment, asked us ironically whether we are against the investment of COSCO in Greece, obviously because he is ignorant of what is happening and considers it a model. A big problem, of course, is the peculiarization of Greek marks, such as Macedonia from Skopje, feta from Germans or Danes, etc. As far as registration of trade marks is concerned, we stressed that international registration is more beneficial abroad. According to WIPO data, the cost of the international registration is EUR 614 for 10 years. Therefore, the cost of EUR 150 for ten years referred to in Article 87 for registration only in Greece, we said it was too high. So it should be reduced. However, we have noted with satisfaction that we have been heard by the Minister who reduced it to EUR 100, which means at least that the Ministry adopts the proposals of the other parties when it considers them right. At the second meeting of the committee we asked questions concerning various articles with some of our own points and proposals. We have received some of these replies, satisfactory in our view, but the Minister has promised that he will respond and the rest, or that he will launch any changes. However, we believe that this agreement with its necessary corrections is not in the wrong direction, contrary to the agreement on military cooperation with the United States signed by the SYRIZA, but did not agree to its ratification, if we are not mistaken, with Montenegro and with several others that we voted against. So we have no reason to be negative. Legally now, Directive 2015 number 2436 of the European Union on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks contains radical changes in the national law of trade marks, as established by a law of 2012. In particular, the draft law aims to strengthen competition through the protection of trademarks that act as a development mechanism, because companies have a strong incentive to continuously improve the quality, innovation and price of their products. At the same time, the provisions of the 2015 Directive achieve the necessary convergence of the national trade mark with the European Union trade mark, which perform the same function on the market and do not justify protection to a different degree and in a different way. We will not go into the details here because we have analysed them in committee. With regard to Article 4, however, we mentioned that the grounds for unacceptable should be any imaging or sound signal that offends good morals or Orthodox Christian religion or any other religious doctrine or above, which refers to proselytism or mutilation, following a statement of displeasure of at least three reasonings and online protest of two thousand citizens. Furthermore, we have said that the misleading reference to an ethnic origin of a product or service, having emerged either from parliamentary control or from a trade union protest, must be a ground for inadmissibility. In this respect, the Undersecretary has assured us that all of this is being protected. Finally, with regard to Article 45, the criminal provisions, we said that the fines referred to are very low, while the penalties imposed are favourable to the prospective offenders, so they should be changed. We hope to be heard by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Now Mr. Criton Arsenis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are surprised at this bill. It is, perhaps, the first bill that does not contain any stitching of other issues. It's a positive surprise, but in any case a big surprise. We are positive about patenting trademarks and, in addition, we consider the coverage of local products, products of designation of origin, branded products and believe that this is extremely beneficial to the Greek economy. Our reservations focus on insufficient coverage. The Greek Parliament is soon to adopt two international trade agreements. It is the CETA Agreement, the Agreement with Canada and the Agreement with South Africa, the SADC. There are huge issues in CETA. You know, we hope. It is, in fact, an agreement against democracy. We have the mechanism for resolving disputes between investors - a state where, in fact, some lawyers outside the institutional justice system, outside any framework of objectivity, decide - regardless of whether they have interests themselves - what they are going to do with the legislations that national parliaments are voting on, namely Greece, which disturb certain investments. And if they decide they're harmless, the laws will be dismantled. But in addition to the danger to democracy, these own decisions, the trade agreements, have in them very harmful regulations on the question of feta as a product of protected designation of origin. In practice, we don't protect the feta. Already the situation is pretty bad. Of the five hundred and fifty tons of feta, which is world demand, in Greece a hundred twenty thousand tons are produced, that is, more than 20%. The remaining demand is covered by white cheese. What does that mean and what does the next stage that will come with these agreements mean? It means an even lower price for the Greek producer, because it will have to compete with cheeses that have nothing to do with feta, with lower standards. But this will be the international competition of feta. That is why we call on all parties to stand up to these agreements, which, as we have said, will soon come to Parliament. We are asking for nothing more than equal treatment of feta with similar cheeses protected in Europe, such as blue cheese, rocket and so on. But because, badly liars, everyone's mind right now is on the coronary, in an epidemic that we are concerned it can hit our country quite strongly, beyond concern and wish, that always requires measures. And I want to repeat a little the measures announced by Yanis Varoufakis, the Secretary of Mera25, from this Step. I repeat, because I think this is the most crucial issue that we have in front of us and on these measures we must all put ourselves in. First measure, abolishing 95% of the advance tax on businesses, which cost 510 million. Also, a 50% reduction of VAT on the Aegean islands and border regions with the exception of large islands with great objective value, such as Mykonos, Santorini, Paros, at a financial cost of 300m euros, because they will be affected by the reduction of tourism. Thirdly, direct recruitment of seven thousand doctors and nurses to the ERC at a financial cost of EUR 220 million. Another supply of medical equipment at a budgetary cost of EUR 100 million. Structural health infrastructure at a cost of EUR 200 million and a total budget cost of EUR 520 million. Fourth measure, are measures to reduce the use of cash in transactions, which help to spread the virus in the pattern of the policy of the Central Bank of China by substituting them from internet-based debit cards or applications at a budgetary cost of EUR 10 million. Fifth measure, cancellation, suspension of taxation of tourist enterprises, which proved to have been affected by mass cancellations in 2020. The financial cost is EUR 700 million. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. The financial cost is EUR 720 million. Seventh measure, a programme for the permanentization of assistant teachers and the creation of teleconference structures in schools. The financial cost is EUR 210 million. And eighth metre, an increase in other public investments by EUR 530 million. The cumulative cost is EUR 3.6 billion, i.e. 2% of GDP. And that will mean a reduction in the target of primary surpluses to 1.5%, where they should be anyway. The real total cost of the matter is very little when one takes into account that it will not only stir up the disaster, but we will save too many losses of our fellow people and save a crisis in the economy. There will be a multiplier of the benefits of this money. We are asking for these measures to now be decided unilaterally. We know, of course, that you are never going to negotiate these self-evident things, nor even the reduction of the primary surplus now in this crisis. You will be content to wish Mrs Merkel that Europe supports Greece, but when this support is not self-evident. But you have an allergy to the negotiation! You have not even asked for the sharing of refugee care now with this crisis and you will not even demand a reduction in the primary surplus, the objectives now with the crisis that we have before us with the coronary. We're asking you to change your attitude. Because your policy of the 'healthy child' will be at risk of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I knew you were one of the best ministers in this government, and your tactics to accept and positive shows that you have a broader view of politics. And this is your honor. And I do so for the first time in public, because, as Mr Villard has said, you are being criticised, but you are also accepting proposals. It is very important in democracy that the ruling party accepts positive proposals from everyone. This is very important and it is to your credit. If the New Democracy has done so since July on illegal immigration, we would have solved many problems today and would not be dealing with them today by the government. I wish you were Minister of the Ministry. Maybe it was different. But now we're going to the bill. It is not your responsibility, Minister, but we are today legislating to guarantee trademarks. You know, my question is: what does Greece produce to guarantee? That is my question, Minister. Fifty years Greece fought for nothing to be produced, for it to be the country of service. When even the concept of the New Democracy, which, if you want to, has a capitalist perception, says that the tourism industry is a heavy industry, then unfortunately, we have a problem with the concept of economic data in the world. I say this because as a country we could produce too many products. Our industrial production in Greece is 8% of GDP. And that only shows something very simple. My question is if you strengthen innovation. I asked the Minister of National Defence about the children who build the drone at the University of Thessaloniki. If we had a little brain, as a parliament, we would have given funds from Parliament's budget or from our wages, and this product would have been found to be a knowhow, if you wish, as an innovation and if we had it for export product, to have a production unit of our own. Unfortunately, we do not have the broadest perception of this story and, frankly, I call it my Minister, it makes me feel that we are legislating but, unfortunately, we do not have a specific proposal to start from scratch. We're at zero. If we compare Greece with other European countries at trademark level or brand names or production level, we have great problems. I am not going to say about monkeys and all this, but I would remind you that in Naples the largest smuggling was done, and we gave Cosco the port. And, you know, monkey products are Chinese most. So I cannot discuss on the basis of logic that smuggling is not a situation that exists. Yeah, we're not hitting on her, though. I remember from 2007, 2008, 2009 here as a MP then I said about smuggling and left people came out and said to me 'what you're saying' because I said it to people. They're the godfathers, the Greeks above and below are the whole story of customs, if you want, who do the wrong eyes, the lack of control over containers that get money and then come the illegal immigrants or the others, refugees and they share them and get 50 or 70 euros a day. So if we really wanted to hit smuggle it is very easy. There are too many billions of euros, Minister. But where does the control mechanism in the valve go now to the Latsis refinery, because that is where oil smuggling takes place, for example, I say now? Don't go and chase the tankers. I mean, you don't go to the source of the problem or the state doesn't go. You are not just the problem, but all the governments because you are serving these fewer people and serving them. With the Greek, let's say, Latsis, because what's there and Latsis's moving is doing it. I mean, that all this shows something. That this Parliament does not work and acts in favour of the citizens. It works and acts in favour of oligarchs with these options. And if he wanted to have mechanisms, he'd have built the system a long time ago. So let me tell you now about the brands. A brand that we have lost, Minister, let SYRIZA be good, is the name Macedonia, Macedonian cheese, Macedonian hammer. We lost it. We lost it. We're fighting now to win it. There are wine fairs running by the Macedonians to convince them that this wine is theirs and that the other Skopje is panic. Another thing we've lost is the feta. And I'm saying we lost because? It's a shame, what can I talk about? We had a product, guys. African feta, here you go. Whoever wants it. German supermarket, Minister. Where are our consulates, the commercial follower? Or every consulate chasing that story. African feta? Christ and Holy Mary! That's brand, it's signal. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I say that because that's not all. It's the tsipoury, which Tyrnavo, for example, because I'm talking to Mr. Rhodoulis, who was there an old colleague, becomes panic. With the tick, everyone does what they want abroad. It's selling Bulgarian chicopu! Where's our reaction? Where is he, you tell me. You can tell me that we have this mechanism that reacts internationally. There's no care and care. In our yogurts? Yogurt is a Greek product. On the olive tree of Kalamata. I'm telling you in particular. Why do I say that? Because first, my Minister, we must train the citizens. Where are the channels, which you control in or out of import, to make some advertising and to bomb the Greek consumer that he has to take products of Greek construction, production and origin and prefer Greek products? Today, now that we are talking, we are feeding the Turkish arms industry through the Turkish product market without controlling the bar code, 869, which is Turkish. Make a spot play all the channels, what plays other issues when they are to bomb a party that rises like, the Greek Solution. Do it! Is that so hard? Advertising, inform the consumer what to buy, what to take. Getting a slice of Greek. Because they also circulate in Greek supermarket German slices, you know. Search German supermarkets in Greece. Look a little bit longer. But where are you going to look for them? Can you? Here's the problem. The whole story is that. Also - I have not seen and will say - only twenty-four companies have guaranteed their trademark in northern Greece. One hundred and eighty - two businesses in all sectors and four thousand products only made it possible for twenty - four businesses. You tell me that this is why it is the individual responsibility of companies that the same people do not do their job properly. Yes, but the state has to drive these people, they can't do it alone, they can't do it alone. I say this because, Minister, the intention is very good, but we also need the driving of the citizen, the producer and the consumer. There's nothing. Everyone on their own works for their own company. That's not how it works. I remember that when Merkel came to Samaras, she had carried "MERCEDES" and all her big companies to buy like native biscuits. When the Prime Minister goes abroad, shouldn't he take some of our people from behind be next door? Not something strange about slippers released by Samaras, we're talking about businessmen producing products. Yes, that was what he was carrying, ladies and gentlemen, and I say that in order to understand what is going on. On the other hand, Minister, I went to a supermarket myself the other day and got a yoghurt and read in small letters that yoghurt is with 'halal'. I don't know what this company's called. Is this "HISPERS"? I'm sorry, I'm Orthodox, because I have to eat a yogurt that has over 'halal' and it doesn't tell me with big letters so I don't know how to take it, because it's blessing through an imam, it's the Muslim process. Their right is - to God! - Let's do whatever they like, but why doesn't the signal warn me upstairs that I can't consume it because it has a blessing of another religion, another doctrine? If it were for Orthodoxy and he said upstairs that yoghurt is blessed, everyone here would yell, from the false left and be right...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u87	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u88	Wait a minute, I'd like to say. You'll be right. My doctrine is Islamic, because I can eat orthodox yogurt. When the product is written on "hail", do you not oblige it to have a large letter, Minister? Why? There is "halal" and cheese.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u89	..the canteen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u90	I don't care about the cage, guys. Understand what I'm telling you. It's unfair for a group of people to accept eating products they don't want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u91	It's causing us, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u92	No, I'm not provoking you, I'm telling the truth. Now, if the truth is challenging, what can I say? I am not talking about you, generally speaking about the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u93	Tell the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u94	I said that, Mr. Comrade. I guess you don't hear what I'm saying and hear only when I talk to you. I told the Minister to find care and care. That's what I said, but you can't hear it. ‘Chalal’ is written on the product with small scratches. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] It's your law, and please too, gentlemen of SYRIZA! It's your legislation. Is that mine? You brought it, it's from you. I don't blame you, I say all politicians have to understand it. It's good to smile, but when we sell out Macedonia, we sell out Orthodoxy, we sell home, be a little serious. To do something different. I say it's written in bigger letters. That's what I'm saying. Is that bad too? And that bothers you? Christ and God bless you! But if he said that the metropolitan blessed it, you'd all scream in here. When the imam or the other one is blessed by the slaughter of animals who, when they find meat, slaughter the animal, do not bother you. Please, I'm also a philosopher. Let's get serious. I'm a philosopher, and I love animals more than humans, and I have two dogs. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u95	Do you eat it alive?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u96	I, Mr. Colleague, don't eat meat, I avoid it. Understood? Let's actually go. Let's go to the coroner. Mr President, I would like a little more time. I heard the country's Prime Minister yesterday in a message sincerely serious. I heard SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras was also on the line of national unity. That means it's not too late for someone to mind. But I've heard something about it. "As Prime Minister, I must hear experts. For the churches, the same as for public meetings is true." I agree. However, it must also apply to mosques and not only to the church of Greece. The Greek Prime Minister cannot only refer targeted to the Orthodox Church. Why didn't he report the mosques? In the mosques, isn't the coronary released? Isn't that where he has a meeting? He has a meeting there, gentlemen of the New Democracy. But why is it only targeted at the Church of Greece? So, was the way the virus was transmitted through the Church of Greece alone? Only through Orthodoxy? All parsniers, barfologists went out to the canals. I don't care what Mr. Paulakis said. Mr. Paulakis said the rich and the Christians. In China there are neither Christians nor rich, communist regimes, few are rich from the nomenclara of the communist party. I mean that this obsession with Christianity is an obsession that is disturbing at least in the flock of the Orthodox Church. Everyone believes where he wants and is his right, but you cannot target a group of people by saying that only in the Orthodox Church should no meetings be allowed or divine readmission. We need to keep an eye on the terms. For twenty centuries, emperors, philosophers, captains, scientists, Prime Ministers and nothing has happened, to say it quite simply. There's also the hepatitis that's transmitted. It's your right to communize. Why do we have to get into a dogmatism process? On the same basis, the meeting within the mosque must be prohibited or not. That's not what the Prime Minister said. Why didn't the Prime Minister say that? He could say that to all the dogmas in all the calls. Only for the Church of Greece was mentioned, only for the Orthodox faith. As for the armour, I have here in front of me a complaint from the Orestian Health Center. Here's their armour! That's the barbah of Thomas. This is where those with a 'curiovirus' are considered. Orestiad health center. They sent it to me today from Orestiad. If that is what the Ministry considers to be an armour from the coronary, we have a problem. He wants to be serious. I shall now come back to a personal matter. This is where every bitter man will laugh. You know, for the last five days, all the means have been dealing with the Greek Solution, aiming at the face of its President - I understand - because she works. The problem of the whole system is that a party president works. It must not work, it must be unemployed or unemployed and must be paid by others. I prefer working and getting paid. From my pocket all the party's expenses come out and anyone who wants me to see how much money I've put myself, how much I've made myself out of my pocket to have the party. Because a grant we didn't get a single euro. Welcome to the PSE survey. Because I see colleagues here, I would like to say the following: Thursday the broadcast was broadcast. At night, on my command, he was never retransmitted anywhere. He was transmitted once. The escalation began on Saturday and Sunday for a show, which took place on Thursday, and the PSE intervened. They did, but I did not see the PSE sensitivise that for five to six days a party president has been insulted, without him being apologised, summoned and speaking. I remember with NOVARTIS Andrew Loverdos - and he was right at that time - when the whole system was against them - I do not know rightly or unfairly, I think they were unfairly against them - but they were all coming out and saying and having the right to speak. Here, in me, for five to six days the entire media system, even public television, unfortunately, has been attacking a man and a party, without asking for this man to apologize for what they are denouncing him. Because I don't apologise to anyone, but they don't ask me to say what I think. That's not it. The PSE did not, however, give a directive to the channels 'Get out and the gentleman you're complaining about'. Because the complainant did not say 'treat', I repeat, he did not say 'healthy'. I repeat it and stress it so that some people can understand it. And because I've been reading various newspapers today, I'm going to show you some ads that no one intervenes here, no prosecutor. Let us say - and I say this in the New Democracy - that the 100 billion of Varoufakis did not take any action. I would also like to say that there was no publicity intervention on my face, ladies and gentlemen. Because that's what the media are writing falsely. There was a press report from the pharmacologist, Mr. Lurando, who filed press reports and clearly the prosecutor had to intervene, go to the prosecutor. I have in front of me, ladies and gentlemen, the first item. He has a full article: "The car protects against the coronary". I got it here. Will a public prosecutor intervene in the "CORDER"? The car protects against the coronary!" This car! I have here again the "COURT OF ABOUT": "See which mask protects you from the coronary". Isn't that a dispersion of false news? Isn't it? Protects from the coronary? I said, I repeat, it doesn't heal, it doesn't heal, it helps. I have a post here. He says: “Caramella antivirus.” Candy! And they're advertising it on a Greek-wide channel! He's a sponsor of morning news show and none of you speak, neither the PSE nor any channels. And I have more here. I'll say it straight away. I was upset by one thing, that the ones who enjoyed most are the neonazis, the Nazi feces, the ones who left here and never step back. Why nazis in the Greek Parliament don't fit! Nazis don't fit in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And they strangle the Nazi feces from the Nazi right to the extreme left against the Greek Solution, because the President works. To accept that I made a verbal mistake. One that I do not accept, but let me accept. Is it supposed to take place on Saturday two or four hours after the whole dorm on a subject in which there's no subject? That's my question. I do not want fellow solidarity from any one of you, but this can be suffered by each of you. I say this because you will suffer it at some point because you leave Marinakis, Savvidis and all of them to play their game on the back of the Greek people and on the back of Parliament. That's what bothers me and I don't see anyone complaining about all this, I don't see anyone talking about it. Also, I'll say it straight away. Ladies and gentlemen, Thursday was the show and Thursday evening there was a post at FACEBOOK and my social media, analyzing what had been done and stopping the show. It was a transmission. I say this because when the Greek Solution is wrong, when its President is wrong, I will make it publicly myself. But the entire Greek solution won't pay for it. I understand that this was after the polls. He got 5.5%. The third party, most of them, said. They had to cut off the legs of the Greek Solution. I'll tell you what's difficult for us, what's so bad for us, it's so much for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us, it's for us. Whatever the fewer and the pimps do, we're going straight ahead. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Finally, Minister, I tell the Government what mistakes you make. And I'll hang up with this because I don't want to abuse your time. A month ago, the Greek Government changed Head of State. He changed him. The chief of State wants at least three months to be informed, because we're having a tough time. Two days ago, you're changing the commander of S.H.I.E.L.D. Who will inform the new Chief, gentlemen of the New Democracy? How do you do these in judgment time? So you're judging officers during a crisis with Turkey? Where have you seen this? These are crimes. They're mistakes that shouldn't be made anyway. It's a disgrace. You continue with a branch manager and a final office. Who's gonna tell who if anything happens? You ask SYRIZA - and you do well - fellowship and all of us. But when you make such mistakes? Such mistakes are not made by a serious government. How did the Prime Minister do that? Clearly we can help. Together, all united against what's coming. Because it seems to be coming, unfortunately. Turks pulled out all their submarines this morning in the Aegean. So they're preparing something. We must all be united, despite our differences. So how do you make this mistake in the Greek army? On the other hand, for Evros, people guard Thermopylae, regardless of the verbal failures of SYRIZA. People said something more. Should the inhabitants of the regions not be subsidised with a VAT lower or with an exceptional allowance? The inhabitants of Thrace, the inhabitants of Evros who fight there and fight are under pressure. A lot of things we do proved wrong. The relief of the people of Thrace is an obligation for all of us. Of course, your greatness goes to the point of making a fence again, 'Hesco's fortification. You put on some square sandy. And you're doing well. You know, when you're poor, you find whatever it is. You put and wire for chickens, rabbits etc., like in the village where we lived. Decide to make a fence really concrete, what Israel did, what Turkey did, what America does, what serious countries do. Make a concrete fence. And today we wouldn't waste about 500 grand a day for the defense of two hundred miles. We're giving money. The cops, all the people who are there are paid for. It's not for free there, people. But they're fighting for the homeland. If we had cement, they wouldn't need that much expense. Prevention is preferable - and I will say it again - of repression. Unfortunately, you're not listening to us and running behind the developments. Do not suppress developments. You should catch up. Listen to SYRIZA, too. Listen to the JRC. Listen to the Mera25 that's not here. Listen to the Greek solution. Listen to them all and apply the good things you do, Minister, in this bill. Let the Prime Minister and your ministers do it. And be sure of one thing: Greek people and politicians united ever defeated. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has asked for the floor. We've made a deal, Mr. Loverdos, limiting ourselves to twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start from Greek-Turkish, because the National Delegation must hear some things. As a parliamentary representative, I am making this hierarchy today in the agenda I shall follow. We have in recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen, two returning defeats of President Erdogan. His first defeat was made weeks ago in Syria, where he lost and was humiliated in the battlefield and barbaric, he is drawing to an agreement that still has not been widely understood internationally. In any case, it is an agreement of a loser seeking to divide the cost of his defeat. It was from the outset that the front that opened in Syria could not manage it was a huge front that greatly increased the existing front from the invasion in that country in 2014-2015 and which, after invading, needed and needed money, faces, people, people, people, human resources, Police, Army, health, health services and much more, and of course, addressing refugee flows. He lost there and lost with an audience - European, almost pan-European, but perhaps even global - who looks at his defeat and blames him. President Erdogan's second defeat took place in Evros and took place in Evros, because, as he did with Syria, he warned he would invade, so he warned that he would send a million immigrants to Europe. And he attempted to do so, not, of course, send a million but to degrade Greece, making the borders of the "souteri" and, on the other hand, to say to Europe "I start doing what I had warned you about." He was also defeated in this area and his defeat was pan-Europeanally perceived, and I dare say, at this level too, beyond Europe's limits. But how did we do it? I take the floor and refer to that, because I was here at the end of November and also in December - I do not remember the need for military and police cooperation and there were objections, reservations, in this Chamber. I also had a part of my reservations about how this is going to be done, not extreme reservations, as some colleagues have heard that a new body is actually being set up and that there will be too many problems, and so on. As a Movement of Change in cooperation with Mrs. Gennimata, we took the initiative and went up, I saw in practice how this cooperation is being implemented, which is really flawed. That's great! And the measures that they had chosen since November were to extend the fence from the twelve and a half kilometers that we had planned and implemented from the era of Papandreou and Papoutsis to an additional fifty kilometers. And then, in January, eight and a half miles had already been covered. The borders are much larger, they are obvious, and those who know the region understand, but the points from which illegal immigrants pass, irregular immigrants are very specific, so you don't have to block the whole region, that's enough on very basic points. This cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, has been desirable when it was planned and when it was implemented, without what Erdogan has attempted to do. And it took us precisely at the end of February, when Erdogan made the threat of degrading our country and sending out a message to Europeans that immigrants and refugees will be allowed to cross the borders of Greece, Bulgaria, Italy and Malta. I have to add, however, one more thing: ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a debate between us here - we are always looking to find something to fight about - whether in this effort of the Army and the Security Councils the citizens may also be useful. I was glad to say that self-determination defenders of the Hellenic Republic do not need to do so, because they can take action which can be useful for exploitation on the part of Erdogan. I say this in comfort today and yesterday, as I said yesterday, is my opinion in general. However, there have been two forms of cooperation between the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies with the citizens. The peculiar form, where some citizens cooperate within the framework of the directions and instructions given by the Security Body and Stratos, but there were also the self-determinations, such as George took his weapon and went there to manage things. The second must be condemned and not let go of it, not allow it. And indeed, the Security Bodies, their responsible and the Army have removed these cases from human beings. However, there were also the people who are helping, who helped on February 28 and the next few days and who are helping, and now that we are talking, the people who operate within the framework of the guidelines given by the official bodies of the Greek state. Their usefulness and help is invaluable. We condemn the case of self-provoking and injuring possible interference and congratulate and honor those who put their interests and their bodies ahead to protect their homeland. It has been heard - and I do not want to be bad, it is not hours - for some of those guys who have gone to help, and they are, let's say, having arbitrary rich houses and violins, as they have said, which they must protect and which is why they have helped. Look, I'm coming back from a two-day tour for the second time from Evros. I came back late last night and my last journey was with a boat, a fishing boat at the 16 km of Delta until the river went out into the sea. That one, ladies and gentlemen, is a villa. This is a ship of a rich owner and this is his garden in which he sits with his other rich friends and drink their coffee and drinks. And this is another villa. And of the sixty, who's in action, I've photographed a couple of twenty. That's how much time I've had. And because I am ashamed of what is being heard against our fellow citizens, I have photographed them myself and put them in the House. I repeat that I rarely submit something to Parliament, but I do so to stop saying to one another things which neither help us nor anyone. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Very easily - we've suffered too many politicians - we get an information here in Athens from somewhere else than Greece and we incorporate it into our word. You don't have to. The House is near Kolonaki. You don't have to talk from here about something you don't know. You need to see it first, and then you need to talk. And I come to Erdogan looking for make news. First of all, I would like to congratulate all the officers, all the senior officers who give directions and all the spiritual potential of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies for this very serious work they are doing there. Yesterday I was in the business center in Kastani and was presented by the Brigadier General, at the same time, and the "CNN TÜRK" and I saw what Turkey was saying. He looked like kids with oxygen, killed, wounded, and so on. So in the fast news, those who are trying in this way, the asymmetrical, the hybrid war to play against the country, we are neither helping with our words nor as self-determined defenders of our country that we took our weapons and we are doing bad. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing this section, which is, in the end, the largest of my speech, with a reference to something that should be of concern to us. Of course, we have the problem of the coronary, but we also have the problem of continuing to tackle - and not to fall into routine - the issues of Evros. We must not forget that a few months ago we had the illegal agreement between Turkey and Libya on their so-called parts, namely their own maritime zones. President Erdogan has warned and in words and practically he will attempt to search for mineral wealth in what he considers illegally to be his own place or place of the pseudo-government of Libya. So far, everything he has said has done. Any threat we've heard to ectoplasm, it's done. We must be united not only for theoretical and symbolic reasons, but because no one can be sure of his subsequent behaviours, which will be the behaviour of a leader who has been defeated twice lately in the field of battle on the one hand and Evros, where he has made a form of hybrid war and has been defeated. As far as the virus is concerned, the President of the Party of Change Movement has expressed itself. I do not want to add anything, but I would like to make a statement to fools I want to address here with the words of another. The man who put glasses on stupidity is Liverpool coach, Jurgen Nobert Cleop. When asked what to do with the virus, he replied, “Why do you ask a man wearing a hat and having a beard and being in a court? Ask the scientists." That's our point of view. Science suggests - in this case, the infectious - and the state decides. And we support the decisions of the state. Another way and no other means exists. What else it sounds like in this case is foolish and injurious. However, the economy has problems as a result of the spread of this pandemic, as the international health organization has characterised it since yesterday. The economy is having problems, and that must be our concern. At this point I will make a reference to today's draft law - with the President's permission and I ask him to give me more time - but also to make a reference, Minister, since you are here, to matters that have been put to me in Evros yesterday. They specifically raised the question of the need for specific tax arrangements for residents of border regions. I don't generally talk about all of Thrace. I'm talking about that area. There is a need for specific tax treatment, which is both necessary and useful, and for increasing the border guards, because it is not done by moving our soldiers and those working in the Security Body to operate with a duration of time in Evros. They've literally despised the police forces in northern Greek prefectures to be sufficient there. Something special is needed for the border region, for tax purposes and for border guards. To go back to the subject that connects me to the draft law - and this is what I am closing down - our economy is under threat. Obviously it is threatened and should now be understood by government leaders in the economic sector that the climate that has been created lately is not enough to support an economy's feet. The trend, positive or negative, is characteristic of the economy - obviously - but it is not enough, because events often come to shape other conditions in the real economy that change, and so the trends. Here we had something completely outside the economy. We have a pandemic. So, as much as ever, we need economic reforms. And what's the main thing? I won't get tired of saying it. Finally, in Greek politics, if you say a thousand times, it's half the time. It is the reduction of bureaucracy in the state, namely the administration and the functioning of justice. Instead, some measures have been taken, but in practice their effectiveness will appear and I do not believe them. For example, it is the exclusive deadlines that the Minister for Development had set and for which he was proud, because as we know very well, the courts and administrations are turning exclusive deadlines into indicative ones. So, whatever you say, people don't do it in practice. Here, then, we need reforms. Instead of reducing bureaucracy, you're making the ultimate state. You went from the backwards, that is, today you are bringing a draft law, which the whole House is talking about almost positively. We agree, too. Our two rapporteurs, Mr Panas and Mr Katrinis, have spoken about this. However, I would like to make a point to you and that is what I should like to close. It is good that you broaden the concept of a trade mark which allows for distinction, so most of the marks and the fewer disputes at issue, since you include in its concept - I am not saying in its definition - there is no definition - and the sound part and the holograms and so on. It is good that the notion of a trade mark, which allows the distinction, therefore, of most trade marks, the least invoked, since it is included in its concept - I am not saying in its definition, because it does not exist - both the sound part and the holograms - and so on. It is good that enlargement also helps to reduce the possibility of blocking inadmissible signals because of existing signals. Enlargement helps discrimination. That's right, too. The regulations and the directive and the law are correct. It is also positive that it is combined with regard to the safeguarding of the system, its existence and its implementation in practice, its exploitation and its use. Inactive signals are not signals that can lead to the exclusion of younger. Positive is that the relevant disputes are brought by the administrative authorities to the civil courts. If there is no special court proceedings and the civil courts are delayed. They may have fewer, but they do. Positive is that the designation of origin and the geographical indication are generally protected. Positive that there is wider criminal protection in relation to counterfeit products and pirates. We do not forget, however, that the basic differences are not produced by pirates, but are produced by honest businesses that disagree with their signals. That's positive. Take note, however, that there are two points made during the dialogue and that they are transferred to the National Representation. Labelling first: all electronics - and that's positive - but paradox paper. You have to buy it to go. I understand the difficulties, I know the difficulties that the Justice Department has in this regard. I'm not improper, but I have to say it. The electronic method allows you to do it without a lawyer, without a lawyer's representation. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the piece of paper. The paperwork was not eradicated in this respect. I was also surprised - I saw this from BSE - that control over the existence of an existing mark, which would lead to unacceptable, is done electronically, but we also go to the physical archive from one point to the next, which means - that I understand without an expert - that the whole system is not digitised. So it remains a part of the functioning of the administration "with the Arab" which obviously produces delays and delays we do not want. I close with the following thought: When your country goes to get your head out of the water, good mood, government changes, ministerial changes, etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The economy needs to go on its feet and it is only by reducing bureaucracy in administration, justice and other relevant reforms. We see this incorporation of the delayed directive. It's one of the previous ones. And they did about ten months and they got a warning from the European Union - the present ones - to bring the draft law here, like Mr Pana, you quite rightly said. But why all these years? I have said so, dear colleague, and with the sanctions of contracts. We're late. A contract has been signed for 15 years since it was signed, so that it can be ratified. Incorporating instructions slowly. We need to work fast. The delay we're getting, the more we take our own eyes off. And now that Greece, in addition to its intrinsic difficulties, has the problem with the present pandemic, I think that this should put more brain to the rulers so that they can go faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Vassilis - Peter Spanakis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Today, on a difficult day and a difficult occasion for all of Europe, for our country, for the whole world, we are discussing a bill which I think is wrong. Because these ninety articles of this bill create for our country, for our country, for our own country, for the entrepreneurship conditions where we are talking about competitiveness of the Greek economy, we are now putting the water on the groove, because this legislation is not a simple piece of legislation, because it does not come back, as the previous colleagues have said, and it incorporates a directive, on 2436 of 2015, which should have been incorporated in the last few years, but it comes back and sees Directive 48 of 2004. So he comes in and puts the foundations to talk about the signals. Those who have finished economic schools and have been taught from the second year of the university's trademarks, we know that the trademark is not simple, the trademark is right and we must not forget that, because the Greek economy wants the prospects and wants the legislation to stand on solid foundations. Here too, we are not coming to vote on a simple piece of ninety articles on trade marks, because we are talking here about certification marks. I listened with great interest to Mr Velopoulos earlier, but to tell him that certification systems actually lay a basis for both Greek products and for the competitiveness of Greek products and contribute to the public administration and public services in a way that is essential in order to welcome the initiatives and innovations of entrepreneurship, whether these companies are Greek or not, but that are based in Greece. But this legislation also speaks of collective marks. Let us not forget that in our Parliament a week ago we passed a law on agricultural cooperatives, because we believe in agricultural cooperatives and believe in the agricultural cooperatives that produce, export, which will strengthen the Greek economy. So the collective signals don't just pass through, don't pass provisions like that without seeing their essence. However, we must not ignore, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the New Democracy Government at this difficult juncture with the coronary has shown reflexes which strike where they should. On 25 February with a specific act of legislation, but also on 11 March with a specific act of legislation, it has shown that we are here, on the problem and I am glad that other groups welcome the measures of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. What we must also note is that, as far as the relevant ministers are concerned, there is a constant awareness of the situation and, above all, of the impact of the coronary on the economy and on everyday life. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, this law harmonizes not one but two directives. We are talking about the national trade mark, we are talking about the European Union's trade marks, we are talking about an international trade mark. We are talking about the Administrative Committee for Trade Marks, which Article 30 states that there is at last an Administrative Committee for Trade Marks to resolve issues that will arise. We're talking about a signal record. In short, this piece of legislation creates flexibility. It shall, with regard to the consumption of a right, the declaration of limitation, the division of the statement of deposit or the registration of a trade mark, as well as other articles, such as Article 16, for the transfer of a trade mark, Article 17 for the authorisation of a trade mark, for mediation, in order to resolve matters before further notice, as provided for in Article 31 for the withdrawal of the trade mark. But it also has other very important articles, such as Article 80, to replace the national trade mark with the international registration of the trade mark. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute, please, I'll be done. And because they spoke beforehand on tax matters, let me and because of my status before I became a Member, say that yes, they need cooperation. It requires an address such as the Trademarks Directorate, which also has auditors and researchers, which also has examiners and registrants, and which is a serious address, an address with prospects and a future, to cooperate with the Independent Public Revenue Authority, to cooperate with the Economic Police, to cooperate with local government, in order to combat trade in goods and services. It's not a simple case and it's not a case that we can throw it away in a minute. He needs a co-ordination.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u101	Finish, Mr. Spaniard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u102	However, with this legislation we also achieve another thing, we succeed in upgrading the public administration, which was a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as the Trade Marks Directorate is in fact being upgraded - and this must not be forgotten - and the conditions are created so that public administration, in coordination and with wider cooperation, can come and solve chronic issues of the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u103	Before giving the floor to Mr Borente, the Minister has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u104	I am making the legislative improvements to this bill for this House to have them before they speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u105	Good. To share with the rapporteurs too. Mr. Bored by SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here at a time when society - we must confess - has been taken over by fear. There are differences in versions to deal with this fear. One is to use this fear on the part of political leadership in order to control or even subjugate society. What do I mean? One possibility is to dive into this fear, to stifle atabetic prejudices and through this way to try to control public opinion or even to hurt your political opponents. There is, however, something worse than that. What's the worst? It is to try, while electorally promised very good things - to bring the normality, to develop the economy, to invest, in order to be the investors costed, to develop industrial production, to enhance popular consumption, to handle the refugee, all this - and when you come in front of this dealing with these problems, to try to find some internal enemy or even worse, to blame, to indict your political opponents for lack of patriotism and indeed at a certain time. Can I tell you something? The national poet, Solomon, has said: "National is what is true." I ask: Is it true that the Armed Forces, the Police, and I do not know what other bodies of the state are responsible for defending national sovereignty? Does anyone object to that? When one tries to say what Mr. Loverdos said, self-destructive defenders can do huge damage to the country - there are historical examples in Greece, but also elsewhere - they may sound unrelated, but they are not irrelevant. Some extreme right-wings, let's say, in Ukraine took the weapons to implement their visions and the ending is known. So I say, when you use it irresponsibly, with insidious and cowardly, I would say a way, when you try to distract from the rest of your political opponents, in order to distort them, spread them to social media, or I don't know what other electronic media, in order to show him that he actually adopts Turkey's views, I have to say: Fear gives birth to monsters. The monsters can use them for further intimidation, but at some point the monsters claim their autonomy and you can find them in front. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the second side, patriotism is not thick words. patriotism is a way of life and political practice. He said before Mr. Loverdos that the House is not far from Kolonaki, and it's true. Like also putting a plug to go to the Colonaki War Museum to serve and incriminate your political opponent, because you considered Evros and the islands to be punished and send him to the tiles to be the superpatriot. That is what we wanted to stress and nothing else, namely that the authorities of the state are responsible for acting on the basis of their orders. This and nothing else. The rest is false and distortion. Nothing else. I said patriotism is a attitude of life and political practice. SYRIZA fortified the country, blocked Turkey from our northern border, came Erdogan and said the leftists in Greece are nationalists and tried to isolate us. So, from there, SYRIZA did the alliances he had to do, the President of SYRIZA sent the messages he had to send, a responsible opposition to Erdogan and be sure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u107	Don't show us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u108	No, I'm not showing you. I have you in front of me and I am addressing the Greek people through you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u109	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u110	I don't move anyone's finger and even at times like this. So I say that the state is responsible and to tell the Greek people what they should do in the case of a pandemic. No one else. I think that on all matters, SYRIZA has kept a responsible, patriotic attitude that is unbelievable and will not change when it comes to the type of suns and will not reverse the gaze if there is any problem of questioning national sovereignty. It is not just going to reverse the look, but its attitude will be the one I described earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u111	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u112	As for the last thing I said about the other sector and how the citizens should behave and how the state should guide them, we insist on five hundred years after the outset of Galilee we insist that the earth is finally turning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u113	Mr. George Tsipras has the floor from SYRIZA. He's the last speaker on the list. Then there will be the Minister and the Members of Parliament next. Come on, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if there had not been shock from Italy, the three-digit number of dead every day, perhaps it would not have been two whole weeks, but more so until an official of the government, the Prime Minister or Minister informing the Greek people that, following the view of science, all the gatherings and all the contacts directly and indirectly including religious ceremonies are a problem in the time we live in. Two whole weeks! Why am I saying that? Because it is obvious that the government is moving on a number of issues, almost all feelings, on the basis of communication, a communication policy and whether it is indifferent to the substance or has no contact with substance and reality. What ELSTAT and EUROSTAT published last week has been a trick in the course of the economy since the New Democracy took over. No, it didn't accelerate, it didn't take off development, but we have a course toward the recession long before the coronary appears. April 2019, Mitsotakis: "With all that Tsipras did and did not do if growth is at 2%, imagine how much larger he could be with a pro-development government." IMP, Mitsotakis: "The economic indicators respond positively to the government's policy and therefore we can be optimistic that in the second half of the 19th and certainly in the 20s the growth we expect will be strong." Adonis Georgiadis, 22 November, very close to 2020: ‘The forecasts of all international organisations other than the least show greater growth for 2020 than they anticipated before. But I say to you that they too will fall out and growth will be even greater." December 19, Adonis Georgiadis: "We run around 2.3%" - while they already have data in their hands - "on an annual basis, which is very good for the Eurozone and our economy really starts to recover after a major ten-year crisis". January 2020, less than two months ago. Adonis Georgiadis: "The investment explosion has only begun Tsipras has not understood it. When we took power, the growth rate in the countries was below 1.7% and we're going to close over 2% in 19. This is precisely the proof that the climate is changing and we will reach 4%, say Mr Tsipras." February, one month ago, Kyriakos Mitsotakis: "The performance of the economy is very good in the past six months, after taking over the country's governance. Our Exchange has the best performance in the world in 19' - it has collapsed now - 'we expect growth close to 3% of 2020'. February 7, Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the Future of Retail Conference: "Whereever you look all the indicators of the Greek economy are moving in the right direction". Only two weeks before the results of ELSTAT and EUROSTAT were announced. Stavros, March 6: "Better the performance of the Greek economy than the average performance of the countries of the European Union". First, listen to the average performance. A previous EUROSTAT press release officially confirms that Greece is last in development in the European Union of twenty-seven in the fourth quarter compared to the previous quarter. All we're talking about is a bug. Fourth quarter of 19 we have a reduction, which is 0.7% compared with the third quarter. The first two quarters of the New Democracy, third and fourth, are plus 0.4% and minus 0.7%. Let us note here that the last quarters have always been because of increased consumption are crucial for growth. That's the kind of performance we had to see from '14 and '13, so bad performance. In the first quarter, the latest SYRIZA has now been revised to 2.8% which is the best first half performance since 2010. In the second half of the year, GDP in relation to the first was only 0.58%. Investments: A rise of only 4.55% annually, which means in practice that all investment growth, growth rate, has contributed to the first half of SYRIZA governance. When you estimated the 8.8% budget, twice as much, you were even being sarmed by the SCA. Exports: In the fourth quarter we had a 3.53% reduction, when you talked about export records. And I am ending with the consumer expenditure, which is, in fact, frozen and crucial for the growth of GDP and has been frozen over your days for which you obviously have a responsibility based on your policies. I mean one thing. You came with announcements for 4% growth. But this is an election promise. And 7% say it didn't cost anything. You knew where things would go. The terrible thing is that you continue November, December, January, February to talk about a take-off of the economy, when apart from BMI and all the market confidence indicators, all the other indicators knew that they were not going well. You are either consciously mocking the Greek people or having no contact with reality. And all this before the coronary. As far as oil is concerned, we have a very big fall. We have reached the levels, about, before the first Gulf intervention in 1991. But I come in a week ago, on February 21st-28th. We have a fall that reaches the levels of the low 2006 international oil prices, which lead Germany to a fall in unleaded 2,83, in Finland a fall of 6,07 and in the Eurozone a total of 2,07. What did we have in Greece? We had an increase in unleaded. It has nothing to do with stocks. Stocks are also available in the rest of Europe. It is the way the market works - because they also have in those countries - in Greece. Let me note that we were the third most expensive country in twenty-eight at unleaded prices. I'm finishing up with the private insurance companies, because it has something to do with the coronary. Perhaps the Greek people do not know that, if the insured people have initiated proceedings in private companies, unfortunately, they will not be compensated at all or at all if they are affected by the coronary. There's a lot of them written in contracts they've signed. We do not believe that we should - and we should - develop a further private insurance market, in a public redistributive system. In the case of the coronary, however, they do not - not that they can - absolutely nothing. I tell you not because you are responsible for this, but you have to inform the Greek people and when we discuss insurance another time, let us know what the private insurance sector can and can't do. You are turning towards the ESS and the public health system to face a major threat. But at the insurance level too, it is the public system that is facing the problem. That's the reality. Who's got ideas, look for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u115	Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers for Development and Investment. Come on, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u116	I intended otherwise to begin, but the irresponsibleness of the previous speaker, even though there were calls for patriotic unity by Mr Zachariadis, only allow me to deliver some answers to the real world. The 2019 development predicted in writing that it would be 2%. It closed, on the basis of ELSTAT's provisional data, 1,94%. I mean, we've fallen out by 0.6%. I stress the temporary elements because, Mr Tsipras, and the other one in front of who was laughing, you would know, since you are so diagnosed, that the provisional data of ELSTAT to date, with the final data of ELSTAT - for reasons that she knows, I am not like a statisticist - always have significant differences in the better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u117	Not always.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u118	For example, in the first quarter of 2019 it was revised from 0.2% compared to the last quarter to 0.4%, i.e. 100% increase, and from 1.1%, 1.4%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u119	Third quarter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u120	So you are making a full criticism of the way you do it - I will then explain it - in the provisional data, when you have not seen the finals. But we are going to the provisional now to the investment index, because Mr Zachariadis has done something nice. Received - says - 2.8% and delivered 1%. How much is the indicator of the investments in the quarterly ELSTAT data you delivered to the investments? You know? It's -5.3%. Do you know how much it is in the last quarter of 2019? It's plus 14.4%, the largest of the last decades. So, if you want to talk about numbers, Mr. George Tsipras, we will talk about all the numbers that ELSTAT says and not about what is of interest to you. The investment house 'WOOD' yesterday posted an extensive article, which you can look into in my twitter, which Mr Zachariadis sees, 'Analysis of the elements of the provisional published'. There you will find that the foreigners, who are studying the Greek economy, write that although the initial 1% seemed less than expected, because they estimate that our economy will go 2.1% at the end, as much as I say it will go with the final figures, as the Bank of Greece says, the 1% analysis is - says - very positive ultimately for Greece. Let's go see what that 1% says. First of all, consumption rose by 1.3%. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u121	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u122	No, for the last three months. But now let's go see a little something you forgot to say. And I imagine that you know - but those who see us may not know - how the comparison is made with the corresponding quarter of last year. Do you remember when the EUR billion package was shared in 2018 and when in 2019? So let's go see it. In 2018, when we compare and raise the consumption of 1.3%, it is with the two billion you shared in December 2018, while in the second quarter of 2019, said by Mr Zachariadis that we took it 2018, it is again the quarter that you shared more than two billion before the European elections, because you expected to win the elections, taking over the citizens' vote. What have you done, Mr. George Tsipras, arrogant and merciless, on the day of national unity? You successfully presented the accounting alchemy that you set up beforehand. Because our quarter was compared with two billion minus consumption and your quarter with two billion plus. For, of course, the corresponding comparison of the second quarter with the corresponding quarter of 2018 is with a quarter that did not have the two billion in 2018, because you had given it in 2019. Because, then, all these rating houses that count on an annual basis know no one believes you. You are, as you know, a dog-killer in the rating houses and for one more reason. Do you know why? Because you came here and charged us with so much slander, because we fell - it says - from our prediction of temporary data minus 0.6%. Do you want to see how much you've fallen to every time you've ruled out your predictions? Every year you fell out 1.5% to 1%. If, then, 0.6% is reason to make this show a day of national unity and supposedly patriotism that you want to show, out of 1% and out of 1.5%, what was it, Mr Tsipras? Success? So learn that in the same analysis of WOOD, with the provisional figures of 2020, January and February were running at 2.5% growth. Then, indeed, the coroner came. I'll talk about it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u123	The economy took off!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u124	Uh, yeah, what do we do? I don't know if the world economy will be ruined...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u125	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u126	To say one last thing, just so those who see us know, because I can't do arrogance. Why did we have 1%, ladies and gentlemen? Because we did have a drop in exports less than 5%. Why did we fall? Because the European and international economy had turned into a recession, so our customers were buying less abroad. The government didn't change anything to export, to be blamed. The world economy went back to recession and bought less. That's the only reason. The second reason is an accounting, which I admit I am not so specific to judge, the reduction in business reserves, because there have been many arrangements for loans, tax debts, etc., which have reduced their reserves. That's why 1% came out. I repeat, however, in temporary evidence. When they're corrected, we'll come right where we anticipated. Because we come precisely to our predictions, not like you coming here to teach us economic lessons. Economic lessons aaa Tsipras! Mercy! And Giorgos and Alexis! I'm closing the conversation here. Now let's go to the object. He was thrown away by Mr. Bored - as he usually does - supposedly for patriotism. I, Mr Barremene, would start my speech by saying "forgive" to the inhabitants of Evros, who accused them of the only reason why they rose up was to protect their arbitrary villas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u127	You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u128	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u129	If you bring it to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u130	Please, Mr. Baroness, don't interrupt. Let the Minister sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u131	I was on a TV show on "SKAI" and there were five Evros people and they swear you in dance. So you should start by saying that your statement was wrong, that you didn't mean it like that, that you said it somehow, and not teaching us lessons. We in general do not accept lessons from SYRIZA. Let's give you a financial, I'd be glad to, because you're unrelated as usual.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u132	Luckily you don't like arrogance!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u133	Now we're going to today. Unfortunately, we should have another tone in today's debate, but George Tsipras chose something else. It's his political choice. I've learned not to leave the challenges unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u134	Minister, it is a warm request that you do not personally refer to MPs and throw tons. They don't need that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u135	In 2019 - to close it - it closed with extremely positive omens. I would remind you that before the krone crisis for the first time in our history, borrowing interest rates had fallen below 1% in the ten-year bond, and everything was going well. I now come to the present crisis - because the past - and to fight - concerns a few people, while what is happening now and how we will deal with it concerns many or rather everyone. First of all, what is it we have in front of us? It is the biggest global health crisis and in the second year global economic crisis our planet has obviously experienced for many decades. Some may be the biggest after World War II. Yes, let's see it because it stays to see exactly what the impact of the coroner will be on the global economy. Today we are talking about it is unknown to be measured, because the phenomenon is still under way. For example, Mr Colleagues, that flights between the United States and Europe are being interrupted, what this means today to the global economy, and we cannot count it. So we have an extraordinary global event. What is the Greek Government doing in this extraordinary world event? Firstly, as far as health measures are concerned, I would like to say that we are doing exactly what you said before, Mr Loverdos. We follow as government what experts say. I will not decide as the Minister for Development what measures will be involved in the health protection of the population. Measures to protect the health of the population are recommended by experts and the government trusts and follows the experts' opinions. I must tell you - and you will have seen it - that Greece has moved more quickly to various decisions from many other European countries, such as the closure of schools. Be careful, we have moved faster, although this phenomenon in our country has not escaped, nor do we have a greater reason for concern from the other European countries. On the contrary, the cases so far are below the European average and we unfortunately have our first dead fellow citizen in the morning hours today. The general picture of our country, however, remains very good. And do not go out on our own to affect the general picture of our country in relation to other European countries. But I stress that our experts are heading for us. Now, in the finance ministries, that is, first of all, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Labour, we also have daily cooperation between the ministers and our staff. You have also seen the legislative act adopted today and the decisions taken. But I want to send out a few messages from here. This crisis is not something we have to face as a 100-mile struggle. I am talking about the economy now, I am not talking about health - I stress it - which is not my competence and there are specialists of me. As far as the financial implications are concerned, however, because it is unknown how long - and we know from a marathon - it is more of a marathon than a speed race. Because it is another scenario where, for example, the virus has a recession in Greece because of the rise in temperature but continues to affect the countries of northern Europe and therefore our clients in tourism and how they will behave during the core of the tourist season, and it is another development if the virus suddenly disappears completely and we have a normalization everywhere, and another development if the virus does not go back to the heat, something that no scientist can say today with absolute certainty. So what do we do? We are monitoring the effects on the economy very closely, making decisions so that the economic and social consequences of health measures can be restored as far as possible. For example, we close schools and take care of how parents can work either remotely or rotately with extended hours or with different hours so that a parent can always stay at home and be with his children. We are making exceptional allowances that will come in the next few days for the employees of the businesses we are closing through our decisions, namely businesses that do not close the business on their own, but we are obliged to shut it down because of decisions taken in the various areas of our economy and in the various regions of the country again, which we agreed previously that we should be guided by them. So we are above the problem, and at the same time build up the tools in cooperation with the European Union, either at the level of leaders, as you know, the creation of the Coronary Fund was decided, either at the level of the Commissioner for Development, which mainly concerns my own competence, whether at EuroWorking Group or at Eurogroup level. We are building up, in other words, and we are asking the European institutions to have such tools in our hands, for example, the change in the deminimis threshold, for example, the possibility of using the NRP's money for working capital to give the funds to companies that are directly affected by this sudden event. We have, ladies and gentlemen, an extraordinary event and we must in an extraordinary event move smartly, but also coordinate with emergency measures. But I want to tell the Greek people a few things to know about. Firstly, panic in supermarkets, in markets, is not justified. The adequacy of food in our markets, commodities, is absolutely guaranteed for the coming months. No one needs panic. Secondly, the workshops of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Development, along with the co-legislative ministries, are making unstoppable checks in order to deal directly with greedy speculation. To date, the market has been working satisfactorily mainly on issues that have gained a great deal of demand, such as disinfectants, masks, etc. in view of the present crisis. We're on top. Our market is functioning smoothly - I can say with pride - extremely smoother than other countries. I don't want to name them, you can find them yourself online. There are other countries in Europe that have put issue cards, they have made market interventions much more aggressive. We're still working smoothly. I will come to the climate of Mr Zachariadis' initial position, with which I agree more with Mr Tsipras, which was unacceptable at this stage. I like fights, you know, and I enjoy them, but it's not time. The time now is to have a broad alliance of government, business and citizens. This crisis, we'll all spend it together, we'll get through it. Greece has no doubt that it will come out stronger than this crisis today and will again win the global admiration of how well and responsible we have all handled it together. It is not a crisis based on a bogeyman state, which will put a police officer behind every operation, because it cannot and does not want to do so. It is a crisis that we will all understand that it concerns all of us, our families, the future of our children and, above all, the vulnerable groups in the population, which we must protect with our own individual responsible behaviour. As far as the government is concerned, the market is monitored and controlled. Tools are built and decisions of an intervention nature have already been taken on the labour market and on businesses by suspending VAT and tax obligations, etc., to give a first breath to those directly affected, many of whom are. Obviously more will be affected during the crisis, you all understand that. The depth of the time of the crisis is unknown. So our measure of intervention will also be such that it will allow us not to be left behind by forces in the process because that would be disastrous. I repeat that we have a marathon in front of us, not a race. However, the general picture of our country remains very good and we are optimistic that, while holding the wheel firmly, as the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis keeps it, it will all go very well in the coming months, while - I repeat - of a major crisis. I say this mainly because I have seen some ironic comments, "hey, the virus has come too." Yes, the virus is here, Mr. Tsipras. What can we do? I hope you don't blame us for bringing him in because he's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u136	No, you'd blame us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u137	...I heard Mr. Polakis telling us the rich Christians brought him. I imagine how ridiculous it would be in Parliament to tell you that the poor communists brought him to China. It would be a ridiculous conversation, obviously. So instead of having these kind of ridiculous conversations, let us now have the serious conversations without laughter. Yes, the virus came and yes, if you don't understand it is a very big crisis and yes, if you don't understand it, unfortunately, - I'm not happy about that - the forecasts for 2020 are being reviewed and not because it is the government and Georgiadis. It would be very funny to tell me that the Greek Minister for Development can solve the global economy today. I consider myself capable enough, but not too much, to be honest. So at the moment in seriousness, with responsibility, with confidence, with individual responsibility, with the sense of the duty that we all have to have, we will do what we have to do and our country will go forward and in a few months' time, and this crisis will be past and we will continue the development process that we have already started, because we have already started to lose the great picture, our economy has already begun to go very well, and that is what the markets have recognised, which is why interest rates have fallen, which is why investment has increased. In conclusion, I will just say a word about the bill because Mr. Papathanase will be expanded in detail. This bill is about self-evident. It is incorporating a directive to make business lives, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, more competitive with regard to the patenting and use of trade marks. We have heard the objections of the opposition and in our final proposal we are reducing the costs initially incurred in Parliament as a proposal. I understand the attitude of the Communist Party that has no reason to vote, in the sense that this is an incorporation of a European directive, but for the rest of the House with which we say that we are taking the European path, I cannot imagine why some party would say 'no' to this bill. In his details, the State Secretary responsible, Mr Papathanassis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u138	Before we begin with the circle of interventions by the Parliamentary Representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Sit down, I didn't give you the floor. You're asking for the floor, but I started announcing some things. Respect the Bureau because you were also Vice-President and you know it very well. First communication to Parliament: We would like to take into account Parliament's view that the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos in the performance of his duties for which the Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for their submission on 17 March 2020 is requesting by a unanimous decision taken at its meeting on 11 March 2020 an extension of its operation until 20 May 2020. Does the House agree to allow the conclusion to be extended until 20 March 2020?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u142	The House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u143	Let's go to the second communication: The President of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitrios Papaggiopoulou in the performance of his duties has forwarded to the House the details of the case-file of which show evidence of a possible execution of any other relevant offences than those laid down in the plenary ruling in accordance with paragraph 2(a) and paragraph 3 of Article 86 of the Constitution. Finally, the Minister of Justice forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 Criminal Responsibility of Ministers, as in force on 11-32020, for criminal proceedings against Foreign Minister Nikolaos Kotzias. We are starting a circle with the parliamentary representatives. He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u146	Why are you shouting? What exactly do you want? Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u147	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u148	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u149	Where is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u150	He called me arrogant and merciless, Mr President. What else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u151	Let's hear Mr. Bored first. Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, you know very well, not just abuse I have not made this appeal in this Chamber, but not even use.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u153	I did not talk about abuse, about knowledge or not on your part of the procedure. That's what I said and don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. Please. Please. So, on personal grounds, you know what the procedure is and what the Rules of Procedure stipulates, if anything has been said by the previous Minister who has distorted what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u154	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u155	Good. That is what I ask you, as the Bureau, to tell us exactly from there and beyond to give you the floor for a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, the Minister said that I have said that this is the only reason he invoked in order to get those who took them to Evros. So I, with the greatest possible energy and clarity, mentioned what I said and what I meant, namely what is the responsible way of guarding the borders from the Armed Forces in a country, not just European, but whatever country. It is the responsible way of safeguarding borders that was in force in SYRIZA government, by the Armed Forces, and please, Minister, ask Mr Stefani, who was the Chief of Army. And if you don't ask him, invite him to come here and ask him face-to-face if they were guarded...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u157	Good, Mr Vartenne, explain or rather clarify what was said on your behalf. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u158	Wait a minute, Mr. President. The Greek people have the opportunity to judge and compare the way in which we, as in the critical moment of the refugee, act at critical times with the proposals...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u159	That's a placement now, Mr. Vartenne. Please. Explain or clarify exactly what you meant from the Step when you spoke. I would ask you to close your intervention here now. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u160	Mr. President, allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u161	But are we now going to a new circle of conversations and controversies? You have clarified exactly what you wanted to say. I think it is understandable by the Minister, as does all of us. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u162	Wait a minute. Let me add something. Because the Minister mentioned some numbers, I would like to say that there are the successive announcements from the trade associations of cities, such as Messology and Agrinio, which say that the sales are 40% lower. Now, because those people are unhappy and your numbers prosper, let the Greek people judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u163	Excuse me, but you are now extending to other issues. I don't think the Minister might have misled that too. I will also give the floor to Mr Tsipras on staff so that the Minister can hear it all together and then give a brief answer, so that we can continue. Mr Tsipras, you have the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u164	Minister, first of all I will not proceed with the way you have chosen. The last one in this Parliament, who can turn away from any colleague for arrogance and ruthlessness, is you. The last one in Parliament! That's the first. Second, you're doing what you don't understand. Many of the budget forecasts have been changed and you certainly did not foresee a recession in the fourth quarter. But the basic thing, for which I ask the government and not you alone, is that you do not understand - is that until a few weeks ago you said that the economy is taking off when all the facts and any contact with reality, such as the Christmas market, show exactly the opposite. There are - and this is the most important of all - very few, unfortunately, but there are journalists, many of whom work in pro-government and approved, some of them, such as Kathimerini, who have been finding that the real elements of the economy are not going well and are extremely worrying. That's probably not what you're reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u165	Minister, please be brief to proceed with the discussion of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u166	I'll start in reverse. I did not understand the personal answer. Was it a disagreement about who was more merciless? On the second point, I say again, to know why we are talking. First of all, the honourable Member falsely said that the last quarter had a recession. The last quarter had 1% growth. Because the quarter is measured by the corresponding quarter of the previous year. So development had in the last three months and over the whole year - I repeat - the forecast was for 2%. The interim results of ELSTAT say 1,94%. And we tell you that it will eventually be over 2%, as the Bank of Greece says. It's very simple. As far as the trade associations I have heard are concerned, we cannot have a debate, Mr Barremene, with the announcements of trade associations in the economy that have every reason to protest. The information the State has is electronically now and specifically. These are the value added tax revenues and the specific data from consumption. In ELSTAT's official figures - what Mr Tsipras referred to in detail - VAT and consumption are also increased. What can we do? That's what happened in our state. I repeat, the consumption increased without Tsipras's 2 billion in the previous quarter of 2018. So we did very well, because we had an increase in consumption of two billion less on the market in December. Sir, I'm sorry, but this is a parliament. And you were Vice President. I say in my speech that Mr. Bored said - and I would expect him to apologize - that they went out with the shotguns to protect their villas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u167	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u168	And you yelled underneath, as you do now, that you never said so. You did so pressingly and convincingly that at the moment - I couldn't do GOOGLE - I thought I was wrong, and I wronged him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u169	I told you, I was under...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u170	So I'm reading you. If you want to tell us about this, very gladly. I can already show it: "Fasted for Evros: They've gone out with shotguns to protect their villas."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u171	That's a title.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u172	He says, underneath: "They have built illegal villas in the habitat of Evros and they went out with carambones to protect them." I beg your pardon, Mr President, I said mot a mot what he said. He called me a liar, because I said mot a mot, saying what he said. If what you said - I told you - has been misunderstood, you have every right to change it or clarify it. But blame me for lying, because I'm saying something you didn't say, while you said it, I'm sorry, it's going a lot. I accept that you obviously regret it was a bad time, that you wanted to say something else, but not that I lied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u173	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u174	Please, Mr. Baroness...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u175	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u176	I'm not giving you the floor. We are starting with the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, you cannot ignore me like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u178	Please, it's over here. We won't do it. Mr Bukokoros, Mr Hetas and Mr Janakopoulos have asked for the floor. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Listen, government gentlemen, Mr Georgiadis, you must obviously understand the fact that SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras are backing us to address the crisis of the coronary, but also the growing provocativeness as well as the unacceptable violations of international law by Mr Erdogan and the Turkish political leadership does not mean, in any case, that political, ideological and social criticism is suspended in any field. It means that we understand the criticality of the situation. It means that we understand the seriousness of the challenges that we have before us and operate in such a way that the government can count on something that the SYRIZA government has not been able to calculate for four years, that it will have an anti-population that will criticise not in terms of populist highlightation of individual issues, turning them into top ones, but rather that it will highlight the real problems, the real dividing lines, the real issues where the political criticism should focus and keep to a low level, because it is a given situation that is currently facing is extremely critical. And we understand that in these exceptional issues, like the coronary, but also the challenges on the part of the Turkish political leadership, it is not possible to resort to war nor to unadulterated cries. And again, I am glad to say that the government today can count on such an opposition, which, however, does not mean that we are suspending criticism on issues that we consider to be top and topical. Evidently, then, Mr. Georgios earlier with his remarks, tension and perseverance seem to have failed to understand the criticisms made by SYRIZA and by Mr. George Tsipras, and that is why he chose to respond with these high tones, which he is accustomed to when he is in a difficult position. So let me explain to him, too, what it was that Mr. George Tsipras accused him of before. He charged him with this, in the last three, four months, despite the fact that he had a picture of the slowdown of the Greek economy, despite the fact that he knew that the key indicators of the Greek economy beyond the confidence index do not go as the New Democracy government would calculate, according to its election record that he was about to have an investment explosion after the allegedly destructive Greek economy of SYRIZA, despite the fact that he knew that the Greek economy did not walk at those paces that he might wish to walk, continued to regenerate a narrative of the Greek economy, which was still regenerating a narrative account of an investment explosion, and he continued to reproduce a page on which he actually created the conditions for the acceleration of all economic sizes, which ELTA came to its provisionally abolish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u180	He never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u181	And the thing is why you continued to reproduce this rhetoric, while you knew that things about growth rates did not walk the way you would like? That was the criticism. In fact, we saw a mass media report saying that the decline in growth in the fourth quarter was a result of the coronary - I do not know if you saw this, Mr Minister, on a channel of friends to your side - which, of course, is completely absurd, as you will know, the first case of the coronary appeared in China, if I am not mistaken at the end of December 2019, which means that the coronary could not have played a decisive role in the slowing down of the Greek economy over your days, as it did not exist. So now that we are not going to suspend criticism in areas of political controversy, such as the economy, such as the ones you are doing in insurance, in employment, in a number of other areas, I understand that it does not suit Mr Georgiadis. And it does not suit Mr Georgiadis because he is not judged by the most effective and the most successful ministers of today's government, especially in his own field, and I think it is well-known. Already a number of newspapers - I say again, friends who are committed to your party - have begun to discuss this. In any case, however, I would like to remind him of something else by Mr Georgiadis who left the Chamber after giving his usual performance within Parliament. Let me remind him of what he said a few weeks ago in relation to the development of the Greek economy. First, he said that because the global economy is moving positively - a few months ago he said this - it will draw the Greek economy together, which means that 2020 will be a year of growth, a year of investment explosion and so on. When the world economy started turning - it had already begun to turn around the world economy, it was just Mr. Georgiadis who did not know it and he was pointed out that there is no development trend worldwide - he placed the following at a conference a few days ago: It is an opportunity, he says, that the global economy has a recession, because this will attract investors to Greece, as Greece has development dynamics for 2020. Mr Georgiadis' logic is therefore one - even the New Democracy wins. If there is global growth, this will also draw growth rates in Greece and if there is a global recession, this will be an opportunity for Greece to achieve Mr.Georgiadis's plan. In any case, it is well known how sensible leaps are made when no one has a plan, when no one has a view, when no one has a perception, when no one has a knowledge of the object and field to be managed. In any case, Mr. Georgiadis has become accustomed to changing what he says according to the context and according to what suits him every time. After all, he did the same with regard to the Church. So this brings me to the key issue of the management of the coronary. From our point of view, I repeat that there is no possibility of finding an opportunity or an area of warfare or populist cries in the matter of managing this public health crisis. We have tabled concrete proposals, and Mr Polakis - which Mr Georgiadis has already ironed out and set up - has had a meeting with Mr Kikilis, whom he has tabled concrete proposals, and has also given him solutions to increase the availability of beds in intensive care units, which is extremely critical, so that we do not tackle the problem facing Greece. And what was the problem faced by Italy? Because there was a rapid spread of the virus and they were unable to spread the incidents in time, this caused enormous pressure on the public health system. There were no intensive beds to meet the increased needs, which led hundreds of people to not receive the necessary treatment at a time crucial to their health. That's what ejected and the number of deaths in the neighbouring country. So what do we do from our side? We are not waiting for your failure, but we are helping in practice, so that as many beds as possible can be found in intensive care units, and at the same time we are helping in the same time so as not to create panic in Greek society. We stress that we must listen to the views and recommendations of the experts in public health who are and the necessary rings so that the Greek society can understand what should and must not do so that it can protect itself from this huge crisis. At the same time, we support all those proposals and all those interventions aimed at strengthening the public health system. However, let me also make a political comment here. It was the New Democracy which has been advertising private health throughout the past period, and it was advertising the need to give the health field glorious glorification to those entrepreneurs who want to invest, as it has, of course, done in all social fields, whether we are talking about education, whether we are talking about social security or about anything. Today that the public health crisis exists, you understand even the hard liberal party in the country, that there is no possibility of dealing with this but by strengthening the public health system. We say that you are right to do and promote the recruitment of two thousand contract doctors. But that's not good enough. The budget of the hospitals must be increased. The money for logistics needs to be increased. There must also be permanent intakes in health. I think that this is what is necessary to deal with a crisis, which will not be a crisis of one month or two months. It will be a crisis that may take even longer. We must have this in mind, and that is why we are recommending a number of far more brave proposals to support the public health system. I want to close with Mr. Mitsotakis' statement yesterday. Mr Mitsotakis took a step towards rationalization yesterday. After fifteen days - where there was a debate in the Greek society and in a way that does not fit in a secular state and in the ministers of a secular state such as Greece - there was a generalized tendency to justify a view promoted by the Holy Synod, according to which the Divine Society cannot, if you like, constitute an outbreak of coronary infection. In fact, Mr. Georgiadis himself had said that those who are unfaithful are not entitled to speak on these matters are, on the contrary, matters that concern only the believers and the Church. I'd like to tell him that's not the case. In a democracy and a secular neutral state such as Greece, the government and the public administration are responsible for public health. It's no other institution. We are all obliged to follow, as this is not a matter of individual choice, it is not a question of individual rights, but it is a question of public health as a whole. It is about you and us and the whole of the citizens. There can be no institution at all that operates in such a way that it might jeopardize other people. Yesterday, Mr Mitsotakis took a step towards rationalization and said that meetings in the context of religious religious demonstrations also pose a potential risk to the spread of the virus. He did it with tight teeth. It did not take place in connection with the debate that it had opened for the Divine Society. However, we consider it to be a good thing. We think that such an effort has been made by Mr Mitsotakis, who, Mr Georgiadis, understands that he has brought you into a very difficult position. Of course, will you tell me, could you be in a difficult position? Anyway, one day you say one another the next day you say the other. You have such an easy task to change ideological positions, political positions, party integrations, which I think may overestimate my thought that such a statement on the part of Mr Mitsotakis would put you in a difficult position. You don't come in a lot of trouble. In any case, from our side, there will be no war. There will be no populist cries. We will support all those initiatives of the government aimed at strengthening the public health system. At the same time, we will be here to stand up to and meet Erdogan's challenge against violations of international law and the sovereign rights of the country. But this does not mean, firstly, that criticism is suspended and, secondly, that we will tolerate setbacks or identities, such as the ones the Government spokesman has done a few days ago, describing the SYRIZA "Erdogan's Trojan", because we are criticising you for your own unacceptable actions in the management of the refugee. It is one thing about violations of sovereign rights and violations of international law by Erdogan and the Turkish political leadership and another about the internal management of refugee rights, communication games, violations of international law made by the Greek Government and for which violations of international law have been committed in relation to refugee protection and respect for human rights. Therefore, of course, support when questioning the sovereign rights of the country is put in doubt, but on the other hand no suspension of criticism, when you are acting illegally at the level of International Law, when you are destroying human rights, when you are operating in a way that poisons and divides Greek society as you have been doing in the last few days. Don't take us for given when we talk about such top issues. We're here to back against the challenges of Erdogan. We are not here to justify points of your policy, which are absolutely dangerous and are turning the country back too many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u183	Excuse me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u184	No, Minister. Excuse me. We'll follow the process. Please. I didn't give you the floor. The left-wing parliamentary representatives and the Minister will of course be given the floor, if they want to respond to what has been discussed, we will give you the floor to answer as a whole. Don't go to the process now to play ping pong. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u185	........................................ Mr President, let us not disagree on the obvious in the Rules of Procedure. The Minister can take the floor anytime he wants. In a way, I'm telling you he mentioned to me a hundred and fifty times. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u186	Excuse me, does the fact bother you to be placed? But, Minister, other parliamentary representatives may refer to your face.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u187	It is unprecedented to ask the Minister for the reason and not to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u188	I would ask you to conclude the circle of parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u189	She mentioned by name to me seventy times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u190	As long as you do not wish, I cannot deny you. The Bureau cannot deny the Minister. I suggested the procedure you heard. You don't want to. You want every parliamentary representative assigned to you, to put it yourself. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u191	I wish to respond now to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, because I do not like to see any impression in the air at all. Why did Mr. Janakopoulos blame me? Because 'I turn it', he says, every time I want it and he would overestimate me if he said something else, and so on. Listen, Mr Colleague, who's going to go back as he wants us to get together: When you were caught in Mrs. Demetrius's office one day before Parliament came the NOVARTIS file, you said that you were there by accident. When you were asked by the committee yesterday, you said that you were on your way to Tsipras' order. When you've done this to Greek society, you come to tell me if I'm turning it, Janakopoulos, it's going too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u192	Excuse me, Minister, but I interrupt you because you are not referring to what Mr Janakopoulos said. You're opening another field now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u193	As to whether you could put me in a difficult position and put me in a difficult position...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u194	But you don't come in a difficult position. Whatever you want to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u195	...I'll tell you when I'd really be in a difficult position. To understand. If my brother were at a protest in London and shouted "Greeks are murderers of the people", I would be in a very difficult position, Mr. Janakopoulos, when it is the country in the state it is. Fortunately, I haven't been in such a difficult position. So the answer is: You can never bring me into a difficult position. And as much as you tried to get me to prison with "NOVARTIS" - some of you, we'll see who, the Greek people will see them one because the developments are running - and there, Mr. Janakopoulos, you failed. And we'll see how this process ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Janakopoulos, don't start on staff now! Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u199	What do you think? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u200	But is that possible? For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u201	But that's how we're gonna get it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u202	Excuse me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Heta, give Mr. Janakopoulos the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u204	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u206	I think, Mr President, that the style, the arrogance, the ad hominem attacks carried out by Mr Georgiadis are precisely the points and elements that characterize the extreme right-wing and barbaric speech, which the gentleman today wants to appear as Minister of the Hellenic Republic. Its position shows a sense and an ethos that does not fit in this Parliament, because in fact what it does is to reproduce various publications of journalists, who operate in a way that is unleashing people's suspicions, in a way that, if you like, even target my own brother for the fact that he was in a demonstration in London, for which I - take note, Mr Georgiadis, now what is our difference - that is, his participation in this course I am absolutely proud and sign up to it as a whole. Because what did he say? That against Mr Erdogan can't raise a fortress Europe. That's our difference, Mr. Georgiadis. When you accuse us of our ideas, when you accuse us of our political army, we do not run away, as your far-right friends, Mr Georgiadis, and as you will do every day and as you do as you are doing as a common right, who, when they are in the face of political criticism, is changing them by walking, Mr Georgiadis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u207	Come on, Mr. Heta. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u209	But what do you want now, Minister? Excuse me. He gave an answer to what you charged him. From there on, we will not resolve the difference in your opinion and Mr Janakopoulos's opinion. Please. Please. There's a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u210	But, right-wing, he called him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I will not get more than twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u212	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u214	Explain what the staff are made up of. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Janakopoulos has taken the floor to say that I am a long-term extreme right. You'll give me the floor for 20 seconds to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u216	Calm down, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Janakopoulos, please! There's no record of anything. Don't interrupt. Minister, let's hear what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u218	I said Mr. Janakopoulos was given the floor to say that I am a timeless far-right, barbaric, etc. It's the definition of personnel. That is why I asked you to give me the floor for a minute. Listen, Mr Janakopoulou, first of all I am very pleased about what you have said. I mentioned a fact that a group of protesters went outside our embassy in London and shouted "and Greeks are murderers of the people". I want to be honest, I don't have the honor of knowing your brother, and I don't know him at all. If my brother went to the protest calling “and the Greeks are murderers of the people”, I would be ashamed. You said you signed the slogan...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u219	I'm signing his presence there, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u220	...and because you said so as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u221	You are not responding to the staff, however, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u222	...the question now is at SYRIZA. SYRIZA endorses the slogan that “Greeks are also murderers of peoples”...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u223	You're not answering the staff, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u224	...when Greece accepts Erdogan's fire? That's the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u226	No coronary doesn't save us, but nothing. We're unrepentant. And homogeneity went for a walk, and homogeneity went for a walk and there's nothing left. Nothing saves us here in this country, nothing at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u227	We'll be fine!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u228	Be good, yes, so we can fight, thank God. It's just that when we here are horrific, the image we give the world out, which has emptied the streets, has emptied the stores and is terrified, is not too good. It's not a good picture. Indeed today, and the President in his speech - and that was our objective - and our rapporteur, and I too as a Parliamentary representative, have tried to be a little more calm, but it is not the situation that is still calm. Since when is Greece a neutral religious state? SYRIZA's government spokesman said so and I was upset. Since when is Greece a neutral religious state? Because he went through the change. Nobody's reacted. Is Greece a neutral religious state? I know that the Constitution says that the Christian Orthodox are the main religion. What are we still going to hear today? That Greece is a neutral religious state? They of course can be next to us and live next to us and others who may not be Orthodox Christians or anything else. Hello to them, they're happy! However, that Greece is Christian Orthodox neither will SYRIZA nor anyone question it. We're going crazy in here! The man said it was a neutral religious state. So it is not a neutral religious state. As much as it bothers you, we are Christian Orthodox. It's over and out. We won't do anything else either you like it or you don't like it. I wonder why we're fighting. Some things are obvious and people make their own conclusions. We're unrepentant. Some here - Mr President, I will respect, I will not say names - are unrepentant. When one says that the Hebrews, the border guards, the national guards, the people who have them for 50 years up there have villas and carnivores and is trying today to save the situation, it cannot do so. Go out and say 'I was wrong, I apologize'. It is a sign of men's apologies." Well, I said, I didn't say, I meant, you said, you say words, you put words... What's this? We're all making mistakes. What are we here? Aren't we making mistakes? I was the only one who made four today. We all make mistakes. Get out and apologize. For Christ's sake! We're unrepentant really. Is that the climate of unity and harmony that we are going to make in the world today, outside the terrified Greeks, who are watching us? If you said so, sir! You said it! Apologize! It's been a bad time. Yes, sir. Come on, come on, apologize, people see you. Regain political authority. They see us and have turned their back on politics for this reason, for these behaviors, because none of us had the bravery to apologise once for mistakes that they can make. Before I go to the bugs, I want to say something. I would point out here - because it was put on the table here, in the debate - and the subject of 'NOVARTIS'. On the subject of "NOVARTIS", dear Minister, you felt injustice in your mind when the matter first came, and you had the need to go out and defend yourself for all that you were accused of. And what didn't they say? In any case, it must be proved whether anyone is right, wrong, guilty or innocent. But you had the way - and I want you to come to the position of President of the Greek Solution - to defend yourself for all the mud he accepts and cannot speak. The only way he can talk is this sacred Stepma and all the television time he buys on the co-operating TV channels. I go to the chosen journalists - twenty-six years of badges I have, a member of the Association of Authors - and I want to greet them from the House and tell them that the Greek Solution is here. Show the shot, Mr. Director. There's the plan. There are ten lions every day fighting. Every day for twelve hours a day. Don't you see us? Are we invisible? Don't you have our phone numbers? Why don't you call us? Call us. The day before yesterday, "SCAI" was two of the New Democracy, Bogdan and Syrigo and one of SYRIZA. I mean, for God's sake! There's a little controversy, you guys, we can exchange views. Why don't you call the Greek Solution, the most typical party in the Greek Parliament? And the ladies and gentlemen who make up this do not give anyone the right. First we come, last we leave with propositions. A lot of this has been done by the New Democracy Government and you know it. No phony, which the President says, we're nothing. I was singing ass, businessmen, professionals, employees, with our jobs and our families, that people honored us and brought us in here. What do we have, and you're not calling us? Call the man to give you an explanation. Humanity. You threw him in the lions to tear him apart. Because that's the reality. Is that the independent journalism? I know how the system works. I know the journalists who are out here, and we pass and they say hello to us, they can't do anything. They take orders, they're employees. What can they do? But the truths are said. The Greek people want to hear truths and we are in isolation. It is unfair what happens to such a party, with such behaviour within the Greek Parliament. In all fairness, all colleagues here, as well as the officials of this House, can testify. So we're here, and we invite you to start again. Our phones are in the House. We await your invitations to hear our views and positions. I'm going a little to what Mr. Loverdos, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, said. Evros was found a week ago by Kyriakos Velopoulos. Our executives have turned all over Greece. That is why we call it the establishment of a militia and a national militia and say that democracy has nothing to fear. Because he came to our words today and Andreas Loverdos says 'yes, in these circumstances, and in this way I agree'. That's what we say. What do we say? The self-protectors, the ounces and the fascists? Of course not! Those who hurt their homes, those who have their homes and their door are Greece's borders, that's what we say. And what do we want with them? Organized, educated, coordinated state, state, government, democracy and there to move. That is what we want, that is what we are shouting and coming back and putting forward the proposal again, Minister. In the reply of Mr. Spilios Lebanon yesterday that "there is no such legislation in Greece", we respond: to legislate, to create such a legal framework, to provide, in a time of peace, at times of crisis, for the national militia, the active citizens to be able to operate. Mr. Loverd said it was about the hybrid war. We have been discussing this since July, Mr Loverdos, for the hybrid war Greece has been accepting from Turkey. I've talked about Mr. Bored. And I would like to close, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance, saying that today is indeed a difficult day. And I will close, as I wanted to start my speech today, but the circumstances did not allow me to do so in this House. We have a dead man. To say condolences to this man's family and wish he was the last dead. We did not say condolences in this Chamber, Greece sees us, the Greeks and the Greeks see us. To degrade temper and reason. They don't need panic moves. We need to listen to the experts. The experts! We don't have to rob the issue of religious or non-religious matters, the Christians, the non-Christians, the societies, you don't have to go to society, the grandparents, etc. Never mind that, it's not time for that. This is no time for this. As I said yesterday, we must all help in this. The psychology of the Greek is alpha and omega. Help the Greeks recover his psychology. The stores and the streets have been cleared. Help regain his psychology. I was pleased to hear Mr Georgiadis say that there are stocks - and that is how it is - and cool is needed for all Greeks together, but truly united, we can do it. And we'll make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u229	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very time when the Greek society, the Greek citizens as a whole, headed by the Prime Minister and the Government, give a tough, forward struggle, the consent of the political forces is the least demand for the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no difficulty in welcoming the former Prime Minister and Chief of Staff Responsibility to a post as it emerges from yesterday's statement in the line of seriousness and responsibility. Indeed, the contents of yesterday's statement by the Chief of Police Vice-Population satisfy the Greek people, but in vain all. Why, what did we see played a while ago here? Just the opposite. I saw the honourable Parliamentary spokesman for the Civilian Representation, yes, but most of his speech is distributed by asterisks 'not that', 'no, the other', 'you will suffer our criticism'. Does that not reduce the value of yesterday's statement of his President? And today the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman here comes to tell us that we welcome the Prime Minister's rationale, a highly rational policy. So if we are to say today that we welcome Mr Tsipras in the line of genuine and irresponsible patriotism, will we have reached a consensus or will we continue these meaningless patriots? And if I were to say in previous speeches that these tensions are wrong, now I will say that they are neither bad nor good, because the Greek people really have more serious things to deal with and are the two fronts that I described to you earlier. I am not one of those who haunt family responsibility for the incident Mr. Janakopoulos said about the demonstration outside the Greek embassy in London. Indeed, I did not hear the slogan invoked by the Minister that the Greeks were also murderers. But if it sounded very badly, that slogan was heard. But I just heard the parliamentary representative say that he endorses the content of the statement, because he said that in the face of the challenges of Erdogan Europe cannot be turned into a fortress. Just yesterday Mr. Tsipras welcomed the measures in Evros. So, does it not reduce the value of your President's statement that you welcome as a party in Parliament the content of such a demonstration? Why if it were the European fortress, why didn't they go to some agency in the European Union, despite Brexit, I imagine that the European Union will still be in Britain and that these protesters have gone outside the Greek embassy? Against the Greek Government's policy these protesters have turned. And today the Government spokesman, regardless of relatives, came here, and I do not say that - I said it - no family responsibility when it comes to individual activity, personality issues, business action, and in general terms. But when two people of the same family environment are in the same political area, things are certainly haunted there and it is presumed, let's say or justifiable if you want political criticism. On the one hand, we say that we support these measures in Evros, we support the measures for the coronary on the other hand, we put fifteen asterisks and what else? We also support political reactions that are against the measures that we are supposed to support. I do not think that this is a clear and clear attitude and I think that with what some SYRIZA officials are doing they are exposing the attitude of the former Prime Minister, which was indeed expressed yesterday on both issues in a clear manner. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great debate on economics, indicators and all that. The Minister of Development answered you. The last quarter of 19 is not compared to the last quarter of 19, compared with the last quarter of '18 as regards growth rates. He also gave you evidence of investment, but you are coming here seven months after the elections to say that the government has fallen out of the estimates of growth rates which are indeed a fundamental size of the economy, together with the current account balance in my humble opinion, are one of the most important sizes of an economy. But when does it prove that a government has fallen outside the estimates? It turns out when we have ELSTAT's final figures and put them next to the figures that each government has entered in the budget, then we can only say whether the assessment of growth rates has fallen out or not. The rest are godly desires of each and reading numbers according to the beam and according to its own perspective. Although I think that at this time the aim is to limit the losses to the economy rather than to see how close or not we are to achieve the targets. And the losses will be reduced by a policy which the government is preparing and announcing in part, along with the evolution of the consequences that leaves this blow, not in the Greek, but in the global economy, the impact of the coronary. So let's all be calm and give this double fight. And fear, which is justifiable human emotion in the face of such great situations, let us not forget those who fight Evros, our soldiers, our soldiers, our ghosts, our police officers and our citizens, but, ladies and gentlemen, who are there and operate as a militia, always in cooperation with the competent authorities. The Prime Minister has also made this clear in his dilemma that the sole responsible and responsible for border guarding and defence of the country and for dealing with these situations are the military and political authorities of the country. There are no doubts or misinterpretations in this. And whoever calls for the participation of our locusts, I mean the citizens, who play a role of militias, which are accepted by the competent authorities there, I do not think, in my humble view, that it offers service. Our attention must not go away from both our ports and the locusts of our islands who are fighting the Aegean Sea. Because we said that this is one front which should not be weakened in the effort to strengthen the other front, which is more serious and threatens the public health system, it threatens human lives. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to admit that before we have a coronary explosion, the government has come with a package of measures, much earlier than other countries which have already been hit by a greater degree. And it's both horizontal and occasional. If you ask me if we'll make it on this front, I'd tell you that at this time of battle, it's not time for questions. At the time of the battle there is no more political force. There's no civilian left. Because the battle is really multidimensional, it's serious and it's critical. What we need to do, however, is to fight, to take measures, to spread the virus and serious cases in time. To protect the National Health System - and I will come here in the public and private sectors that have already been heard - over time, so that those who are entitled to care in such a serious situation are treated. I heard here, however, that some inspiring came out for the private health sector. So, so so many private hospitals that exist, so many private clinics that have beds, intensive units, skilled staff, what are we going to tell them? You guys stand aside and watch? Do you not participate in the battle against the coronary? Of course, the National Health System plays a leading role, which is why we support it with two thousand recruitments immediately. Of course, the National Health System will fight, for that is why the Greek people are taxed and the Greek people pay for it. But we do want the private health sector to take part in this battle, with all its powers. Because that is the only way this fight will be effective and victorious. Finally, I should like to make an appeal to the Greek citizens. Because, in fact, it is a characteristic that distinguishes over time and in particular the difficult hours of the personality and the pendant of the Greeks. Let's limit the moves. Let us do these simple and self-evident things the experts tell us about. That's not an obligation, it's a duty. It is also a victory for our country to participate in the battle that can and must be and will be a victory for our country. Let us once again show to all the peoples of Europe, to all the peoples of the world, that even though circumstances are difficult, Greeks with unity can always do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor for a minute. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. To make things clear. We're talking about national unity. The national unity is produced because the political forces of our country choose and because they know what the line is, at least for the vast majority of Greeks and Greeks, the disposal of the subjects to be united and the line, which is the national line, the line of our country. The parliamentary spokesman for the Civilian Representation if he was a Member who does not express his President, as the parliamentary representative in question has to do, of course, and I would not take the floor. However, the major opposition parliamentary representative at this juncture we are now in, with the struggle at the border now, in which we are talking, with the attempt to change the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey, said that he fully disagrees with the policy of closed borders and subscribes, etc. I don't care about the outside of Athens, not even if a party MP has a different view. Now he's spoken to the Officerial Response party here. Mr President, when our people are struggling at the border - Army, Police and citizens who are organised and operating under the direction of the Army and the Police - to keep the borders of Greece and Europe as they must be, which, in order to pass through, you must knock on the door and ask to go - not to destroy the obstacles and defence structures of a country, not to destroy its borders, but to knock on the door to get in - when this is the effort that we are now all doing now, when it is the effort not only of Greece, but of Greece that must convince and convince all of Europe - and it seems that we are doing so - it is unacceptable to be heard today in the national Parliament. And, however, if this is the line of SYRIZA, the Officerial Representation, we do not agree and the consensus is broken here. We are in a line of unity, because the leader of this party, not yesterday, but now, in a television interview, talked about the need to protect borders. Will this party drive us crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u233	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u234	It is not possible for every party to be drawn into a policy that we are all united, to propose that the Council of Political Heads should become, in order to make the necessary political choices at the heart of the country and others say it on Monday and Tuesday. Mr President, it is very serious. I can tell you again, I have no right to the Rules of Procedure, nor is it possible for any Member who disagrees with another, to have the floor interrupted. But the country needs all its political forces. The political leaders - most if not all - offered their support and first of all our Chief. But when the front breaks because the line breaks, then, Mr President, it is a lie. That's why SYRIZA here today needs to make it clear: knock on the door of Greece to get in or get in whenever he smokes you? Mr President, it is essential!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u235	Good. The speeches and speeches of the Parliamentary representatives have been completed. We will give the floor to the rapporteurs and to the special speakers if they want to speak. Mr Arsenis has the floor from Merra25 to give a second answer. I do not know if one of the other groups wishes to speak. We'll see it along the way. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said, we will be voting in favour of this bill and most of its articles, as it is one of the few bills, after all, that have not entered into its rule 'we are bringing numerous provisions of various ministries into a bill'. However, I would like to refer to an issue of topicality. According to an article by the "New York Times" there is a detention centre of too many refugees, which is informal, secret, made by the Greek Police but without any guarantee of legality, no proceedings, no legal proceedings at the Evros border. I would neither have posted any posts or videos written for this whole period by different foreign media unless the Government spokesman himself confirmed yesterday, Mr. Petsas. I call Mr. Mitsotakis and the members of the government present...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u237	Has Mr. Petsas confirmed the post? The whole opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u238	Confirm there's a center and it's not a secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u239	This is the core of the distortion. Why "New York Times" were talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u240	Mr Buquoir, if you want to intervene, I will give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u241	No secret center!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u242	Do you hear me, Mr. Buquoir?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u243	The government representative said, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, that there is this centre and it is not a secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u244	Well? Is that the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u245	He did not reply at all and we ask Mr.Mitsotakis to answer whether the new York Times article is accurate, if there are Greek Guantánamos, if there is a detention centre in Greece where they beat and strip immigrants before they send them back. The dignity of our democracy depends on your response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u246	He asked for the floor for Mr Zachariadis to answer. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, as I have said in introductory terms, we will be voting in favour of this bill. I do, however, take little of the time of denunciation to give Mr Loverdos an answer so that there is no doubt about it. I don't know if Mr. Loverdos didn't really understand or on purpose he distorted it. The statement by Alexis Tsipras yesterday is clear and clear. It is quite clear and clear and emphatically what our Parliamentary representative has said today in Parliament. However, neither Mr Loverdes nor the government, in the name of our self-evident agreement, can blackmail the country, in the name of self-evident defence of our sovereign rights, ask us to identify ourselves with government policy, which, ten days ago, beats the Greek locusts on the islands. Anyone who tries to make such setbacks, all he does is ideological terrorism, while it takes political cohesion and political agreement to deal with Erdogan's provocative and disastrous policy. If they really want to contribute to national purposes to the difficulties that the country has, rather than shouting and distorting what the Civic Opposition says, let them hit no hand in the European political family. Because I see them very loud on the inside and very quiet abroad. And there is something that after so many hours of meeting, Minister, has not been answered. Does the Greek Government insist after the Tsipras declarations and last week and yesterday that SYRIZA is Erdogan's 'Syriza', yes or no? Four times he has spoken in this way I would like to hear from Minister Adonis Georgiadis - he certainly has the right to the Rules of Procedure - and he has not said a word. Are you insisting on this thing? Are you insisting on asking us for agreement and agreement and assistance, telling us every three and a little that we are reduced patriotic responsibility and a little - very traitors? Are you serious? Are you telling the public these things when we have such difficulties? Mr. Loverdo, I don't know if you're going to take the floor, but tell me your opinion too. So I challenge you, and I invite you to take the floor. While the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation makes this statement, how do you deal with the majority statement saying that the party of Officer Reconciliation - which has taken 32% - is Erdogan's'spring horse'?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u248	I disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u249	Get the microphone and tell it to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u250	Will you blackmail me to talk? It's been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u251	It is not a matter of party placement, it is a question of patriotic responsibility to divide the people at such critical times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u252	Would you like to be a second, too, Mr. Antoniadis? Yeah. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. I mean the following. While we have all started well on a common line of consensus, Mr Zachariadis, and I say this to you, if you get the Minutes, you will see that your position was in the line of your President. All the rest of the places of your representative, Mr. Heavy, were in a completely opposite line. At last get a voice. That's your problem. You come inside the House with fifty voices. I do not want to dwell on what has been said. Because you yourself now, at the end of your position, yes, you started right, but you were again beginning to bring back what was said before and what was then said. If we have a common line, we are also trying to bring them into this common consensus line. I too welcome the fact that for the first time I saw all the leaders of the opposition parties align themselves to a national line. So instead of all of us safeguarding this achievement of political society and life, we come from behind - each one of us - and sabotages it. So we are staying in this, all the heads of the parties - and they are to their credit - on a common line with the Prime Minister in these difficult times we are following what we need to do as both Greece and as a nation and as Greek citizens. And I think it is worthwhile to comment on what was put forward by the representative of Mera25. And here I stand and stop
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u254	We're Erdogan's Trojan Horse?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Zachariadis, please. Mr Janakopoulos has the floor, and then the Minister will take the floor, to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u257	I'll be very brief. I didn't mean to take the floor, but after the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, I have to say two words. I think Mr. Loverdos misinterpreted the previous controversy with the terms he did. I think that perhaps for reasons that he has chosen to take on Mr Georgiadis' side. I believe that this is the wrong political move, which, in my opinion, also shows a more overall discomfortful strategy that the Change Movement has. I will only say: Mr Loverdo, you must be aware that the fact that the SYRIZA, its leader and all of us operate in terms that do not in any way call into question any sovereign right of the country and at the same time operate on terms of forming a single front against the challenges of Erdogan does not mean that we will suspend our criticism when the Greek Government operates in a way that violates international law or destroys human rights. And you know very well, both from your position as a lawman and as a professor of Constitutional Law, that human rights are not a good card, not for those periods of regularity, it is not for those periods that things are in a normal day-to-day operation. Human rights show their depth and effectiveness, especially at the time of the crisis. In this sense I say that human rights violations will not be accepted. But that does not mean, under any circumstances, that we will operate at any time under conditions that will allow Mr Erdogan or the Turkish political leadership to breach obligations, as they arise from international legal texts. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] However, the ideological and political terrorism that tends to be imposed on anyone who is criticising of being a minority, a traitor, an Erdogan's 'Syrian horse' is extremely dangerous to democracy in my view. And it is not the first time in Greek political life in recent years that these kind of political criticisms and logic have been gaining ground. We met them and the period of the Prespecies Agreement. Of course, today the New Democracy for the Prespecies Agreement has come out and changed its position. We welcome that. He says the Presidencies' Agreement must be honored. But you will also remember very well the way that, for a top political issue, certain Members have chosen, but also political officials of the New Democracy leading Mr Mitsotakis to operate in the previous period. It is precisely this type of political function that is precisely that type of rhetoric which, in our opinion, favours situations of division in Greek society. That is what I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, may I have the floor too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Bucketaut, should we go in turn because he's discussed, as Mr. Loverdes has already said, the reason why? Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u260	The political tactics of wanting a third smaller party than the two largest ones must be similar to one of the previous ones. I'm saying she's not smart, 'cause I could say it anyway. It is not smart because whoever has a political line and is stable has the samples of his writing and shows them. I show you, therefore, in relation to the country's national issues the scripture of the Change Movement that is stable and multi-annual and its achievements are too great. I am not concerned about what is called outside the Chamber - I repeat because you were not here and I tell you now to inform you - I am concerned about what is said in this Chamber. I didn't mention anyone outside of the halloween where you had a fight. I referred to what you said. I have not referred to you as a Member but as a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA, that is to say, as the person who, under the Rules of Procedure, replaces his President. In return for your President today you have ignored by an intervention you have made in the context of a two-cylinda, which does not concern me, what is today's efforts by Greeks and Greeks, by their political forces and what is the effort that is being made in the European Union, where after so many years Greece's borders are recognised as a frontier in Europe. And in the argument, Mr President, Turkish diplomats or Turkish politicians that Europe's borders are supposedly where Turkey ends and Syria begins to oppose most of the fact that this is about NATO and it is not about the European Union. This effort that we are doing now and which our citizens are in pain, which our forces are employed at our northern border, which we have defeated Erdogan, a Parliamentary representative presents to us as an attempt at closed borders. Mr Janakopoulou, I, as professor of Public Law in relation to rights, know that apart from me and anyone else's boss, I must respect the Court of Human Rights, where now in February on a matter concerning Spain, it was decided in full that when you try to enter another country, while there are its legal borders and its passage, you must go illegally, you must be a lot of people together and take advantage of the fact that you are many, to destroy the obstacles that a state wants to protect its borders and, indeed, with violence, he is repulsed without individualising his application for asylum. That is the decision and I can read it better than others at least. Once again - I would not have taken the floor - the political forces of all the leaders are called upon to join in a national line, the first thing to be done, Mr President - because, beyond the chair at this time, you are also a party official - is to know what the majority is saying, the Civic Opposition and the other anti-population forces, including us. When we know, we can be placed. When we don't know why the line is zig-zag, then we can't put it. Here, or the line - as far as SYRIZA is concerned - by Mr Tsipras, who has expressed it twice, or the line by Mr Tsipras, who represents - is supposed to say other things. In conclusion, because I do not want to leave anything without clarification, I would like to say that we have not denounced any political power, Mr Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u261	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u262	I am clear, clear and unequivocal, and we condemn all of this kind of political approach to any political line.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u263	What you said about the border is in line with me, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Parliamentary Representative, these positions taken by the other parties now, at least they must concern you, because it is nothing more than support for what was expressed yesterday by your former Prime Minister and President, who was a clear post. It was a clear position, but the current attitude of your party expressed by you in the way expressed today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u265	I'm glad everyone today is with Tsipras, except me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u266	So listen, why did we answer you? Although you are not here, that is the way in which the debate we should have answered. I hope your colleagues have informed you what we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u267	I did not refer to you, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u268	But you will hear, because our positions are perverting. That is why you will hear this: you have come here and you have indirectly implied, but clearly, that your reaction is because human rights are being affected in Evros. That's what you said clearly a moment ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u269	Throughout the country, not Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u270	...and that you're not going to give any forgiveness and you're putting an asterisk...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u271	Didn't you beat the islanders, Mr. Spokesman? You didn't beat the islanders? What were we supposed to do, applaud you for taking the islanders? That's what we're telling you. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u272	Don't throw the ball on the platform!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Zachariadis, please do not interrupt. Let Mr. Bukkaro finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u274	Say what you want to get the same answer. You know very well why this is happening today. There is a protest in London with an alleged slogan "No to the Fortress of Europe", outside the consular authorities of the country, which means that the content of this event is directed against the policy of the country, which your President says is supporting. Isn't there a big contradiction in that? Places where national consensus, for some SYRIZA executives, seems to be only in words when you put a hundred fifty asterisks. Who asked you to lose the right of criticism and of the opposition? Who, in total, accused SYRIZA of not only certain extreme views that were told to the media that we should open the border, that we will live together with the refugees at this stage? Do you forget about your youth announcements? Does Alexis Tsipras support these announcements? Since yesterday's announcement, it seems not. I just want to tell you one thing. In both Evros and the Aegean Sea, with your current attitude, you prove that you are on two boats. And because we're talking about an aquatic environment, you know what happens to anyone who runs on two boats! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much. The State Secretary, Mr Nikolaos Papathanases, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today and call on you to vote is the transposition into national law of Directive 2436/2015. As we said in committee, in the hearings and in the readings a large part of this bill was prepared by the previous government and in the debate we took into account and added many of the comments, the comments made by the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the parties, so that we could come up with a comprehensive bill, which has a purely developmental sign. And it has a sign of development, because it aims to strengthen the growth and competitiveness of enterprises. How does that work? This is achieved by strengthening and promoting the proper functioning of the single market - and this is one of the main objectives of our state - as well as the rational management and protection of industrial property rights. A balanced legal protection of industrial property rights fully strengthens competition, innovation and technological development. A rational protection of the trade mark contributes to the protection of consumers as a system with all the above characteristics makes it clearer to inform them in relation to market conditions. It also strengthens their confidence and enables them to make conscious choices of branded goods or services which are actually widely used in the market. In more detail, the Act under vote is the following: Firstly, the national trade mark is converging with the European trade mark regulated by Regulation 1001 of 2017 and is shaped just like the European trade mark. There need no longer be two different trademark systems, a national and a European one. That makes things very simple. These differences in the principles and weightings of interests would, therefore, cause - and cause - confusion in companies. They were usually forced to adopt different marketing policies within a single space and advertising for the national market and a different strategy for the European market, which is almost impracticable and yet very costly. The European trade mark system has been tested - it has been implemented since 1996 - and a successful one at the same time and is recognised internationally. The correct transposition of Directive 2015/2436 is facilitated by the convergence of the two systems. Secondly, competition based on product innovation and originality is being strengthened. By adopting the institutions of the European trade mark, such as, for example, rescinding a trade mark, in order to seek the integrity of a trade mark. In the event of an action for a trade mark as referred to in Article 38(12) to 16 of the draft law, the trade mark for the creation of legal monopolies and the restriction of competition shall not be misused. Thirdly, companies are geared to originality and innovation by protecting the use and introduction of the trade mark more than the formal act of registration as provided for in Article 12 of the draft law. The trade mark is therefore protected for the essential reason, when it is original or has become known in trade and not for the formal reason that the administration simply entered it in the register. Fourthly, the cost of transactions is limited. It reduces bureaucracy and makes market access easier for new businesses. Full fees for a change in name of registered office, address and legal form are hereby abolished. However, the possibility of paying reduced fees is allowed. Here, too, we have incorporated the parties' proposals. So, we're at even lower levels to deposit a signal. A trade mark shall also be lodged electronically. Fifthly, administrative procedures are being simplified. The register of trade marks shall be fully digitised and shall only operate in electronic format, as provided for in Articles 33(6) and 34(2) of the draft law. Notifications are now made electronically, as provided for in Article 21(1)(c) and Article 24 of the draft law, and not by a judicial curator. The electronic lodgement of a mark referred to in Article 22(4) is expressly provided for and unnecessary judicial action between undertakings is prevented by the reduction of the judicial proceedings which affect them. This is done by not rejecting self-declarations of trade marks which impact earlier trade marks, where the proprietors, i.e., do not wish or have the right to oppose registration. The Trade Marks Directorate shall, however, inform the proprietors, in order to challenge them, if they so wish, Articles 5(5) and 24(2) of the bill. Sixthly, many new forms of non-traditional trademarks are adopted, such as, for example, sound signals, traffic, audiovisual, holograms and others, and companies are given the opportunity to differentiate and distinguish their products in more ways, as provided for in Article 2 of the bill. Thus, companies acquire more choice in relation to marketing and promotion of their products. These arrangements strengthen originality and innovation. Businesses geared to originality and innovation are more favoured and protected. All the above-mentioned arrangements in the draft law now actually create the conditions for endogenous development, i.e. growth that occurs when companies are better aware of the needs of the market itself, especially consumption, and meet the new original and innovative products. Ladies and gentlemen, the Legislative Committee, which I thank once again, has attempted the text of the draft law to be simple, comprehensible and clear. Apart from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the draft law has been thoroughly edited by the Central Legislative Committee, where judges of the political appeals and the Council of State have formulated all its provisions. Finally, an effort has been made to ensure that the provisions of the draft law are also in line with the relevant provisions of Regulation 1001/2017 on the European trade mark. In conclusion, I would like to focus on three issues: the first issue to be addressed concerns issues relating to development, and this was also mentioned by Mr Janakopoulos. I would like to point out that one of the key elements of growth is not only the pace of growth, but these components that create the pace of growth. And, as the Prime Minister said earlier, 1.9%, this provision is temporary and the final provision will be followed, as we consider it to be different. One of the key elements of growth is the formation of gross fixed capital. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means what is actually done by investments, what value is added to the economy. And I want to tell you that Greece, as it was in July 2019, has been in the last European Union position and has reached the last European Union position in the last five years. The growth, as recorded in this element of formation, therefore, of gross fixed capital, i.e. investments that actually enter and stand in the economy, was for the last quarter of 14.4% compared to the previous quarter of 2018. This is the greatest growth that has occurred, that is, the real growth that has occurred over the past five years. And this is a measurable number that marks what we really want to come to Greece. So let me remind you that today Greece is 11%, when the average Member States are 20%. If Greece went to 20%, today unemployment would be under 7%, ladies and gentlemen. This is, therefore, in response to what the Ministry of Development achieved in the last quarter. It has achieved the greatest growth in investment in recent years. The next thing I would like to dwell on is the issue of the Ministry's coronary and actions. I would like to tell you that the Ministry has not stopped since the first moment, it clearly incorporates all its actions within the general government plan. And with the contacts and the meetings and the organization and planning of the bodies, I would like to assure the House, as well as the citizens that there will be no problem with the lack of goods in the Greek society for the Greek citizen, for the Greek consumer. The Ministry of Development therefore continues to monitor closely, daily, the development of prices and goods and the adequacy of goods so that nothing is missed by Greeks and Greeks. I am closing the blockade because this has also been mentioned. I would like to tell you that within the next month, a draft law will come from our Ministry on the blockade, where the existing structure that has been activated at a great level - because the embargo is a violation, a criminal activity that takes away and jobs and revenue from the state - will be very careful on this part called 'tracking the blockade'. Clearly he can't disappear. But we've taken a lot of steps. I would like to say to you, therefore, that the draft law which comes strengthens control mechanisms at this point, gives them autonomy and autonomy of movement, so that they can attempt across the territory with greater flexibility and greater power. Ladies and gentlemen, development and growth are one of the key elements that Greek society demands. But, at the moment, the unity of our country and of the political forces and even more important is the protection of the health of citizens against this serious issue that has arisen and is called a coronary. So both, in terms of public health, but also in terms of unity, our Prime Minister has drawn up a path. And this is the way of success and integration of these adventures in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u277	The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is closed: ‘Trade marks - incorporation of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, eighty-nine articles, the office article and the entire bill. Make sure you have voted for all the articles, the hotel article and the whole. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u278	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u279	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u280	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Trade marks — incorporation of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u282	The House has given the mandate requested. The Minutes of Monday 20 January 2020, Tuesday 21 January 2020, Thursday 23 January 2020, Friday 24 January 2020, Monday 27 January 2020, Tuesday 28 January, Wednesday 29 January 2020 and Thursday 30 January 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u283	The minutes of Monday 20 January 2020, Tuesday 21 January 2020, Thursday 23 January 2020, Friday 24 January 2020, Monday 27 January 2020, Tuesday 28 January, Wednesday 29 January 2020 and Thursday 30 January 2020 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-12-S1-commons.u284	With the consent of the House at 15.35 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, March 13, 2020, at 11.00 p.m. on the subject of oath, in accordance with Article 33 of the Constitution, of the election of the President of the Republic, Mrs. Catherine Sakellaropoulou, in accordance with the special agenda.
