ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 17-12-20 authorization, the minutes of its PRACTICE Sessions of Thursday 17 December 2020 concerning the vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: ‘National System of Vocational Education, Training and Lifelong Learning, incorporation into Greek legislation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 relating to the verification of proportionality prior to the adoption of a new Legislative Enforcement of Occupations (OJ L 173, ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Hellenic German Youth Foundation and other provisions’]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 21st December 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 247/11-12-2020 topical question of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "By asking questions about the worrying epidemiological situation in Western Attica". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 244/10-12-20 is a topical question by MP B2' West Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The immediate reconnection of electricity supplies to financially weak households of Agia Varvaras during the second phase of the pandemic." 3. The question by No. 268/14-12-20 is a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The unacceptable delay in granting the annual financial support to sports clubs and bureaucratic delays in the Register of Sports Associations". 4. The 257/14-12-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "MAT Synod cut the electricity into abundant families in Agia Varvara". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 254/14-12/2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The direct support of workers in tourism and food is necessary." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 259/14-12-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The incineration of waste in Thessaloniki despite Greece's reference to air pollution in the city". 3. The 260/14-12/2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New scientific data insist on the protection of six mountains in our country which have remained intact from the development of roads". 4. The 261/14-12/2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aiolic in Samothraki put at risk one of the last world-wide areas without roads". 5. The 262/14-12/2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "With the vaccine the government treats the coronary or the pressure for strengthening the National Health System (NSS)". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1702/12-11-20 asked by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "The protection of work in the "ELLENIC S.A." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1735/13-11-2020 by Congressman Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Procedure of a documentary system for the certification of invalidity (CEPD)’. 3. The question under number 1486/344/11-20 of the question and the submission of SYRIZA MP II documents - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Does the government know the results of actions to reduce the use of the thin plastic bag two and a half years after the measure is implemented?" 4. The question, under No 1643/358/11-11-2020, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, entitled ‘State of staff of hospitals, health centres and local health units (TOMY) of the 7th Health Region (HSP)’. 5. The 1349/333/2-11-20 question and submission of SYRIZA MP's documents - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on 'Blue Flood' before privatization and the TEDO? We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following: five questions will be debated today and two questions will not be debated. The one question that will not be debated is because of lack of competence and is the second question under number 258/14-12-2020 in the second cycle of MP B2' West Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister of Finance. The second question, which will not be discussed after consultation, is the second question under No 249/12-12-2020, first question by MP B1's North Athens Department of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance. The first question therefore, with which we are starting the debate and to which Mr Adonis Georgiadis will reply, is the fourth with number 255/14-12-2020, is the second question of the Eleanor of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The lack of liquidity is stifling the small businesses of the country." Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the Prime Minister three days ago left the possibility of an extension of Lockdown until mid-February. There is the government's decision to buy click away for 10% -15% of retail trade at a time when the turnover of this period, as you know very well - because you have market experience - is 25% -30% of the annual turnover of retailers. At the same time, these companies are invited to pay EUR 2.4 billion in the next 12 days in HICPIA and income tax. According to the report of “Sunday Day”, eight hundred thousand businesses have suffered significant losses of turnover since the beginning of the pandemic, two hundred thousand have been closed with a state mandate and six hundred thousand are the ones that belong to the affected CARs with a 50 to 52 billion euros reduction throughout 2020, while two hundred thousand companies are threatened with a lock-up in the new year. Now let's go to the budget. The budget mentions arrears of EUR 2 billion for the third quarter of 2020 only with market open and tourism running and falling to EUR 13 billion. What will the professional be called upon to pay on 1 May 2021, when the suspensions expire, when the accumulated liabilities from the ten-year crisis, the obligations of the first quarantine, the obligations of the second quarantine, the current debts and, of course, the instalments of the bank loans that are "unclear", why do the banks prefer partial payment instead of the suspensions? The market therefore needs to inject liquidity and relief measures. But let us see what the 2021 budget says about the businesses I ask you today: Obligations of 3.5 billion, more revenue. In fact, the first two months that the Prime Minister says the market will be closed, budgets 9.35 billion revenues, 1.35 billion more than two months of 2020, and tax advances will normally be paid in 2021. Relief measures: no deduction to municipal fees, no suspension of payments of liabilities, taxes and funds and EUR 0 to cover employers' contributions. Reality: EUR 0 TENs II, EUR 0 Guarantee Fund - I say what the EUR-0 budget says for special-purpose compensation. And don't forget the bankruptcy code. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what does the budget foresee? A total of 3 billion over 2021, when half of them will be absorbed in the return payment in January. And the programmes of the regions which are 800 million for 2021, which have been announced, as you remember, since May and still have not reached the pockets of professionals, programmes to which new businesses have been excluded, such as companies employing a few staff due to low rateing and self-employed people. This is because, as is clear from Mr Skalkos' answer to a relevant question which I addressed to you, the regions have basically copied with Mr Djijkosta's proposal, which was 'flying' except for all these operations. The South Aegean Region and the Attica Region recently found an extra EUR 50 million for businesses of nine people and self-employed. So I ask you this: In addition to the 800 million planned, will you activate new aid programmes through the regions aimed at small businesses, but also for self-employed people? Secondly, will you activate via the Greek Development Bank liquidity tools for micro-enterprises, but also for new businesses that have been out of liquidity to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I wish you and my fellow Members many, merry Christmas with health. Mr Katrin, I'm going to get things first in the order you put them to me, and then I'm going to come to the question. You continue this transparent rhetoric against tradition outside. You said it was only about 10% of business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u5	The market what it says!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u6	Well, let go of what the market says. What the market says I know, 'cause I talk every day with the market. In yesterday's "SKAI" poll, on the fourth day of the measure, while even all Greece and retail trade and the presidents of the chambers and clubs and parties are in shock because the retail sale did not open - and, as you know, their announcements were broadly against logic, they wanted to press for an appointment of one - one and all that they say - yet in just four days' time with this climate to swear, 34% is positive. What for? Because the world, Mr. Catarini, has started shopping a lot. How do we know? We see e-commerce. I have to tell you something, because you're telling me and I want to explain it. I received a letter the other day - which was published in the media - from the Association of Greek Artistic Games, from the link of small games stores, look out, at the border toy stores, not the big ones. Besides, the largest toy store in Greece, the "JUMBO", decided not to open the "delivery outside" and uses it at all. In my opinion, Mr Vassilis makes a very big mistake, but he is his right. The link between the small stores - I imagine you saw the letter - not only congratulates us on the "delivery outside" but tells us that because of the "delivery outside" they saved their Christmas money and thank them - and I thank them for that, because it is rarely done in politics - personally me who think about it and describes customer tents that young children are enthusiastic about taking a game, even out of the store, because if you made the same order for the same game as the couriers, as was before "delivery out", the child would receive the game after New Year's New Year's Eve, and now he can also take it out of the store. And I come to why I say that. Getting SYRIZA out and saying all this nonsense makes sense. SYRIZA, IT'S SOMETHING. But to say the Change Movement, a party that has been ruling, without having to propose an alternative to the market - none! - and simply accuse the 'delivery outside', I beg your pardon, but I thank you politically, because you are giving me the whole measure. Every businessman who succeeds in making a sale and every customer who succeeds in making a purchase will say that this is the grace of Georgiadis. That's enough. But why do you give it to me when it's not all mine? Why are you going out so negatively? In fact, since it was decided not to open the retail trade - and fortunately I have not heard a single party in the House saying to open the retail trade and it would be mad today, when you see that every day in Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Japan, America, Spain, Italy, break one record after another in COVID and deaths, precisely because they opened the retail trade - in Greece we were protected from it and are already much better than all of them at pandemic level. We decided to keep retail trade closed so as not to jeopardise and we said we could find a way to keep the turnover from being zero, to get the aid from businesses and to get some customer service. I must tell you that this method had a risk, whether or not it would increase social mobility, because if it increased social mobility, it would potentially increase the risk of spreading the virus, and so we would have failed. Yesterday I had a long collaboration with the Deputy Minister of Transport - accidentally entered - Mr Kefaliannis, because we tried to see these four days that the measure is working if there is a marked increase in traffic on the roads compared with last week. You know that during the entire period of the second quarantine, the movement was far greater than the period of March and April. The evidence has shown - and here is the State Secretary presenting it to us - that we did not have a move. The average increase in movement this week since the previous week is 7.5%, that is, a very reasonable increase as we approach Christmas anyway. So what have we achieved so far and must continue like this? We have achieved a remarkable turnover for closed retail trade. Do you know how much it reaches? Hold on! On yesterday's day, about 35% of last year's festivities, from the zero that we would be without delivery out! We're talking about 35%! This is a miracle! If the measure continues in this way to sell without increasing traffic in the streets, we will have succeeded, Mr President - I tell you why you are a doctor - something unique, to keep health and to keep the market open. That's fantastic if it happens! And I hope it happens! That is why I call on everyone to observe the measures by the end and not to violate them, because if we all respect the measures, we will also save businesses, we will also save jobs, we will also serve the customer. So the cases over the turnover, you know, will be very different at the end of the year than you think and say in the question, and - I repeat - and for small shops, not just for the big ones. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u7	Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, indeed professionals and merchants, who at least do not expect in their shops the tails of those who are going to shop in the method of Mr Georgiadis but are staying at home and who have put our channel and see the question I ask the Minister, will surely be disappointed, Minister. In four and a half minutes' time, I told you in four seconds what all commercial clubs say as a finding. I just told you what professionals and businessmen have to pay, what obligations they have now. Minister, we here or we respect parliamentary procedures or consider ourselves in the context of amphitheatre rhetoric and say what we want. I told you what the budget does not provide for, what obligations it provides for in 2021. I asked you two straight questions about aid programmes through the regions and possible aid programmes through the Development Bank and you were talking almost six minutes to convince me of the success of the click away. And as far as the fall is concerned, it's not called the Change Movement. She has been told by Mr. Mylonas, the CEO of the National Bank for two months. And you'll see at the end what efficiency is. I wish it would help reduce the tick fall! So you did not answer any of the things that people on the market are expecting, which is probably not in the category of those who are sending you congratulations, those who are so satisfied with the measures you have taken because they have increased the cigarettes, to see what is going to happen in 2021, and if you as the Ministry of Development have a plan with liquidity tools, as you did in 2020, to do something about 2021. If you do not respond, then I will remind you what you did in 2020, Minister. TEPIX 2, the Guarantee Fund, gave EUR 5.3 billion to eighteen thousand five hundred eighty-nine companies. It's an exact number. It's the Development Bank's announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u9	That's the guarantee, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u10	They're both liquidity instruments. They will not exceed the total of twenty thousand enterprises that will get loans close to EUR 8.6 billion, if I am not mistaken in the calculations, in 2020 or in the beginning of 2021, which will be disbursed. In this money, companies with a turnover of up to EUR 100,000 a year have taken 2.4% of the money, Mr President. This was in 2020. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need two minutes, Mr. President. Yesterday, in St. Dionysius, Mr. Stournaras, Mr. President, at an IOBE event, he talks about unprecedented liquidity in Greek data, EUR 40 billion in banks! It says that a very small part has gone to the private sector of the economy. There is a credit expansion of 9% in large businesses and small businesses of 1,9%. Now listen to the best. Overall, it says, in the private sector - I am transferring exactly as he said - we are about a little above zero! This fits with the many zeros in the 2021 budget made by the government for professionals. Banks take their liquidity into Greek government bonds, deposits to the Bank of Greece and have a reduction in interbank lending. These are the words of the central banker, not of the Change Movement. In fact, it concludes that this has benefited banks very much and has improved their results very well, but it says that it is called upon to contribute to the credit expansion and the productive sector of the economy. The banks are closed. With EUR 40 billion in liquidity, with EUR 14.5 billion increasing deposits from the beginning of the year and not giving private sector loans! In fact, the ratio of loans to deposits for the first time after the ten-year crisis has fallen far below the 100% threshold and is between 60% -80%. So there is no problem with the banking system's ability to support growth with warm money. You, then, announced a Responsibility Observatory - remember it - on 20 May. This was set up on 2 December, after all the money had been disbursed from the liquidity instruments. In fact, to make sure that no mistake is made, you said that the evaluation and control of general and specific financial instruments does not fall within the competence of the Observatory. I ask, Minister, you, as I asked you on 2 April in this Chamber, this: Do you still insist on and agree with the strict banking criteria when the central banker admits that the private sector is almost zero the liquidity of the banks that have taken EUR 40 billion?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u11	Finish, Mr. Catarini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u12	I'm almost done, Mr. President. So you have to answer that because I am reading somewhere that you and Mr Stakoura had a meeting with the bankers and you have made a mistake because they have not channelled EUR 70 million from the guarantee funds. But that is not the problem, Minister, because you understand that. There is no problem, because the EUR 70 million that went to certain large enterprises has not been disbursed. The big problem is that, while banks are pumping liquidity, Mr President, at a negative interest rate of 0.3%, they are borrowing and making profits, they do not channel this money to the businesses that are suffocating and fighting for the new year. I am waiting, Minister, for you to tell me what tools you will specifically activate for the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. While you were talking, I contacted Mrs Hatzietro via 'What's Up', with the President of the Development Bank, because you said something with which I disagreed and wanted to make sure that what I am saying is correct. He'll send me the painting in a little bit. I don't know if I'm going to be able to testify now to him in the Minutes, but I'm going to do this perhaps to a next question. You said you have found a announcement from the Development Bank that says the total of the operations that took TEPIX 2 and a guarantee is five thousand seven hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u15	I said eighteen thousand five hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u16	Yes, very well, eighteen thousand five hundred. Even better. Do you know how much it is? Thirty-two thousand. It's exactly twice as much as you said. Only in the last week, the one we have had from TEPIX, Mr President, received an average loan of 60,000, i.e. a small average, a small loan of six thousand new businesses, which - not least - had not received any loan from any previous bank, from any instrument. So not only the evidence you said is wrong, but the substance is wrong. Let's actually go now. This government in these nine months has given the market the largest liquidity given by a government to the market by the Treaty of London in 1830. Do you know how much it is? It is over 11 billion TEMPUS Guarantees and repayable advances. You should be concerned, Mr Katrin, if what you keep saying here is true, where all the entrepreneurs cry and say that we left them alone and have no money and all that is being destroyed. Because businessmen are half Greece. I'm sorry, but yesterday in the polls of two different companies, we were sixteen points ahead. I mean, if you didn't cry, where would we be? Twenty-six, thirty-six, fifty-six? It can be weeped and destroyed, Mr. Catarini...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u17	Easy, easy, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u18	Let go of the polls!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u19	So listen. I don't need the poll to know, Mr. Kegeroglu, that the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u20	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u22	...supports the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u23	It's not writing anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u24	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u25	And you know why he supports the government? It supports the government and turns you back, because you haven't heard from what's going on in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u26	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kegeroglu, are you the lover? The lover sits up and listens, and you spoil the world! You're not the lover!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u28	I want you to call him to class for this "funny type" thing, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u29	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u30	What has been said is unacceptable. I don't want to make categorisations in the House. Mr Kegeroglou, as a Member of Parliament, voted against my choice for CEO, which was an option for Vangelis Venizelos of the previous government and would say to me "a funny guy"? Gather around, Mr. Kegeroglu! You're out of reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Georgiadis, don't make personal reports. You're answering Mr. Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u32	I'm coming back now. The liquidity given to the enterprises by this government has no precedent. Of course, the crisis has no precedent. That's the right answer. So we're a government that we've looked indifferently at the micro-medium, which we've left the small enterprise alone, which we haven't taken measures, which we haven't given back to seven hundred thousand businesses? If you say that, you're good for us. Do you know why? Because the one who has received a repayable advance and lived as a businessman for the first time in his life...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u33	It's the Ministry of Finance. It's not yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u34	You're wrong. They're both ministries together. It's a return payment, a joint ministerial decision. All five and four are a joint ministerial decision at all times. So I come to tell you that every businessman who has entered into the'refundable advance' account and hears you pretend here that this government has left the small and medium-sized enterprises alone, understands that you are lying and then supports us. Is everything ideal? Of course not. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Today we are in the greatest crisis of mankind since World War II. Are you telling the greatest crisis of humanity since World War II that it's all ideal? Did I tell you there wouldn't be a cigarette reduction? Do you think you can quarantine and close the economy and close flights and close hotels and not have a cigarette cut? That would happen, do you think? So you come and tell me self-evidently things with a muddy look, without recognising the very great efforts made by the government, and that very simply reduces your credibility. To make a news, I, the "funny guy" v. Kegeroglu, will announce this. I'm sorry about the characterization. I'm trying with Mr. Kegeroglu, who's also played in the past. I was once the "funny guy" in governance with Mr. Kegeroglu, but he agreed to sit in rule with "funny guys" Mr. Kegeroglu in the past. So I come and say this so people know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u35	And close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u36	The Greek Development Bank plans and in January will draw up a new instrument of EUR 450 million with a limit of EUR 50,000 for small businesses only, with a greater guarantee, so that we can rebuild new businesses that will need further financial support to meet the great crisis that obviously brings the closed retail trade to the holidays. And to close the core of your question, what will happen in April and May? This is the real concern of businesses today. Businesses are not struggling for the moment, because today we are supporting them all by reducing the rent to 80% and by making repayable advances with the guaranteed loans as well as with TEIX...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u37	Close, Mr. Georgiadis. You won't make a budget speech. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u38	The crucial question for business today is what will happen then and the answer I have always given is the same. Today we do not know exactly when the crisis will end - will be in April, will it be May, will it be June, will it be March? - I don't know when "then," because I'm not a prophet. When the crisis is over and we will know when it is 'then', you and all the businessmen who are right to fight for us to sit and logically find those measures that will enable them to meet their obligations. None of us are going to tell them 'pay all this money or close it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Georgiadis, close up. You're done. I'll turn off the microphone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u40	We're neither foolish nor crazy. As so far we have been in agreement, so will we.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u41	After the storm...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to make it clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Kegeroglu, your turn will come now. Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u44	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u45	For Mr. Georgiadis, we're done. We move on to the second question, to which he will answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u46	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u47	Calm down! Mr. Georgiadis, we're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u48	It can't be done. He's said serious things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u49	If he wants to clarify or repeat them, I'll give him some time when his turn comes to say it. We're not having a conversation here. We're done! You're not going to dismantle the meeting now! We therefore move on to the debate on the first under number 251/14-12-2020 in the first cycle of the MP for the Eastern Attica of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'The Government and the Ministry refuse to resolve the problems of transport in eastern Attica'. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Kefaliannis. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The two crossing their swords out now, so Mr. Skouriakos can speak and Mr. Kefaliannis can hear. Please! Go out behind the benches and discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u50	I don't understand why you didn't give me the floor for a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Kegeroglu, let's get this over with. We want the plenary sitting shortly for the committee. Here you go, Mr. Darkness, who stoolly awaits a speech, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u52	Mr Minister, since last summer, long before the second wave of pandemic, with our continuing questions to the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are stressing the problems that have arisen in eastern Attica with public transport and service. But, so far, there has been no substantial response. In eastern Attica, some five hundred and sixty thousand of our fellow citizens, who since March 2020 and the first application of social distance measures complain that the operation of public transport has been completely dismantled. All over the region, the citizens move with the CBEL, the suburb of OSE to Piraeus-Chalkida route, Metro and buses of urban transport, and the transfer of students is made by the CBEL. According to complaints from residents, operators and mayors, which we have repeatedly submitted to you with parliamentary questions, the routes of Line 3 from and to the airport are now being carried out every one hour. The administration of the CBEL did not issue a discount card for the students in our area and dramatically reduced the routes to and from the Municipality of Oropo. The route Athens - Chalkida is operated by OSE only every two hours and the routes of the urban buses are either abolished or significantly reduced. In view of the above, you ask how you plan to restore the proper functioning of public transport in East Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u53	Me too, Mr. Darkness. Here, Minister, you have the floor. The question was quite clear and polite. Laconian - I hope - and the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u54	Mr Colleagues, you are well aware that the return to normality with the health requirements imposed by the coronary epidemic has proved to be a difficult test for public transport, I would say worldwide. You also know that the health crisis is adding to a ten-year economic crisis which, unfortunately, has left a disinvestment in the public transport sector and has often been misused both with resources and, of course, with human resources. So you realise that the combination of these two situations, unfortunately, has led public transport, public transport, to a marginal situation. I fully understand, Mr Colleague, that there is a dissident attitude to raising issues, but at least to agree in this Chamber that these should be based on concrete, real data, so that the citizens who listen to us can understand and draw some conclusions that are actually close to them. I will state publicly that I obviously also feel the agony and anger of our fellow citizens and of the eastern Attica, when they obviously had to experience some delays on certain routes, whether on the buses or on the means of fixed track. For us in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport even a bus to delay and a Metro train to delay, we need to find a solution. We don't close our eyes and see what the reality is. But the picture - you will allow me to tell you - which you are unfortunately describing is far from the reality of a paradox. I think it is based on inaccurate data, and in some cases - if you like - on a bad information. I'll start about what you said about the Kappa Tau and the schoolchildren. Indeed, I have received many written questions from you about discount cards that the Attica CBEL did not, according to the question, grant to students in the region. I have to tell you one thing, Mr Colleague: there is not even a student in our country who pays for his transfer to and from school. Watch out, there's not even a student. And, of course, this is a state obligation to all students of all levels of the country. From there, the discounts to which you and your colleagues are probably referring are the transfer of students at the end of the school hours. Of course, as you can see, and as is the case throughout the country, any discounting policies by the various transport operators, especially the private sector, are based on the conventions concluded by those operators with the public sector, but there is in no way the mediation or participation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in this particular situation. So what the Attica KATS implements for discounts - I repeat - out of school hours, for various categories, including that of students, is a policy that it is implemented as a private body. You realise that this is something that needs to be kept in the Chamber and I will say it once again: there is not a single student who has been found without a discount or is not moved primarily for free, as far as the part of his school is concerned. From that point on, with regard to the routes you have raised for buses and metro, so that I am not being abused and your time I will say it in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'll make an observation before I get into details. You've been invoked with sanitary conditions. It is precisely because these conditions exist, that the routes should be increased and not reduced. From that point on, you told me that I was claiming inaccurate data. Minister - I say this very well - I ask you when you return to your office to check your information. Because your partners gave you this information, but listen to the voice of the citizens of Eastern Attica and my own, because in the eastern Attica I live there are my friends, my social relations, my relatives. I'll give you information, which I ask you to check, personally. Orosh - Dionysos: KATS routes have been dramatically reduced immediately after the second lockdown. The administration of the CCEL announced the dramatic reduction in the route of the Attica CCEL for the Municipality of Oropo and Dionysus. This communication raised very big reactions to local communities and the administration of the Attica Central Attica retreated and added two other routes, but for just one week. There are only four routes to and from Athens for these municipalities at the moment. Four routes a day! The Priastikos from Athens to Chalkida - which serves three municipalities of eastern Attica, Acharnes, Dionysus and Oropos - operates on routes every two hours. In other words, no improvement of the services since the beginning of the pandemic. Let's come to the Marathon. For Barnabas and Grammar it is only three daily routes from the Attica CCT, from the eight that operated before the lockdown, while both the CCT and the urban transport services for Marathon and Nea Makri have been dramatically reduced. In addition - and I will table it - there is a request from the Association of Parents and Prefectures of the Municipality of Marathon for a vote to the municipal council on the regulation and permanentisation of the student discount of 50% for all movements on the routes of Attica. You know, Minister, there are lessons in other areas in the eastern Attica: Odeia, care centres, sports children, the Pallini Music High and Lyceum and others, which must in a way be moved to these areas in the eastern Attica. Markopoulos: No student discount - card - 50% of the municipality's students for the routes to and from Athens, where lessons are held. There are students, students from these areas. Koropi: In Metro, instead of coming every thirty-five minutes, they are 30 minutes late, so we have routes every one hour. I must inform you that from this station, from the Coropio Station, there are too many East Attica residents serving to go to their jobs. They park the car there and take the subway downtown. Saronicos: We have a reduction and abolition of OSCE routes and an exception to the students of the Municipality of Saronicos from the discounted student card. Mr. Minister, Saronidas, Anavyssos and Fokia, we now have buses of Rethymno and Chania. You know, the citizen is forced to pay three times: once he pays through his taxes, to have public transport, second time through his taxes to subscribe the Rethymno and Chania bus that comes to Saronida and a third time the ticket. Three times the citizen is burdened with this patent which you have brought from the region to the center to save the situation, since you are not making the buses. Don't go into any more of those shrewd ones. Lavrios: The routes of the CCEE to and from Athens were every one hour and at the moment are only three daily routes. The student discount is very important. By the summer of 2020, students received the discount card for the CBEL tickets of 50%, for their trips, except for the municipalities, as well as for the routes to and from Athens. With the start of the new school year, now, in the midst of a pandemic, the CCEE administration decided unilaterally to abolish the discount. Then there were serious reactions from the parents and guardians of the Eastern Attica, as well as from the mayors. Today the Attica CCEL has given the specific card only to the students of the Municipality of Marathon, after consultation with the mayor, while the Municipality of Markopoulos has only been given for the intra-city travel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Darkman, I can't leave you any more time. Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u58	I'm done. I submit to the Minutes and the resolution of the Parents and Wardens Association and the mayor's decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u59	As you can see, the Minister cannot at this time give you an answer on fifteen routes that you have mentioned. However, if you had included these in your question, you could have answered them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I was accused of bringing in inaccurate evidence. I had to give the exact evidence. I beg the Minister when he takes the floor, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Darkdog, you didn't understand what I told you. If you had included these, as you said, in your question, they would have to be ready to answer you in detail today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u62	It's evidence yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u63	Well, if she's yesterday, she can't answer you today. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, the good fellow Member will understand what I want to say, because we really need to understand and know who is responsible for what. Mr Colleague, you have been referring for a long time to specific voyages of the CCT. Let me inform you, therefore, that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on these routes which you have mentioned does not have any competence. These are determined in accordance with Law 2963/2001, by a decision of the regional director - in this case the District Director of Attica - who is the only one - the Regional Council and the Regional Director - responsible for the issue of CATEGORIES. The CBS is a private body and does not fall within the competence of, or even under the supervision of, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport sets the legislative framework, but what you have just described evade our competence. I tell you so that you can do the corresponding actions in the institution that has the specific responsibility. Mr Colleague, listen to me, to be practical and to the fellow citizens who are listening to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u65	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u66	So let's go to public transport. In July 2019, Mr. Comrade, your government handed us eight hundred fifty buses and trolleys all over Attica. Today you know how many traffic in the Attica streets? There are a thousand two hundred fifty, a 50% increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u67	It was OSCE and you cut him off and brought the CCTB...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u68	You want to hear? I listened very carefully. I haven't interrupted you a second. So listen to the evidence, to be specific, because I tell you you have inaccurate evidence. Thousands of hundred and fifty buses and trolleybuses are currently on the streets of Attica, of which you know very well, Mr President, that in your region - that is, in Gerakas, in Artemis, in Koropi, in Drapi, in Druffy, in all these areas - these buses are circulating with the partnership they have made with the CCEE and which are much younger than other OSCE buses. So yes, there is better transport work in East Attica and I always talk about public transport, not about the Attica CC, which I described to you why it is not our responsibility. I want to tell you something else, because you have another bad information. The distances you have told me about both the Metro and the Suburban do not apply. Since 2004...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u69	Every hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u70	Listen to me. From 2004 until today, the route to the airport has not changed once. Time intervals are thirty minutes. A damage may occur within the day, a delay, and this can actually cause delays. But what you are telling me in the question, which you have reiterated in your prototype, that it is now an hour away, but - I repeat - some exceptional incidents that may occur in the day. It's thirty minutes, look at the routes. I think after you see it, we might agree. Also, you referred to the Suburban. I will tell you that according to the official figures, which I have, because I am not telling you anything that I am going down from my head, even between the Transformation and Koropian Stations, the time periods are twenty minutes and not the forty or forty-five minutes that you have invoked. Corresponding to Athens to Chalkida, the frequency ranges are per hour. Mr Colleagues, I would also like to say that for the first time this government has also recruited public transport operators. Now we will have six hundred young workers at SSY and OSH, drivers and craftsmen, namely in critical specialities, in order to be able to operate public transport. It is something that is happening for the first time in twelve years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u71	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u72	I'm hanging up. So what we will leave as a legacy regardless of the coronary is more public transport and more human resources, so that we can actually have the services to the citizens who deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u73	It will now be discussed the first with number 252/14-12-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vasilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Thirding, turmoil and delays for the Northern Axis of Crete (BOAK)". Instead of two minutes, I'm putting you three to tell you both your protest or your complaint that you said I didn't leave you. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, during the debate it has been heard that the Change Movement has no positions, does not make any proposals, and in any case the Minister, rather than answering the content of the question, to the questions, has chosen another way toward us, which is inappropriate, because we are putting forward proposals and that is well known. I will present the last two to him today, which concerns the strengthening of the postal and delivery system, e-shop and, of course, the city courier, which he said was blocked. I shall also present our question and proposal for a health-proof opening up the market. I'll testify everything to his knowledge. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously, the designation is not about his face, but about how he tried to answer Mr Katrin's questions, which he then justified because he said 'Yes, the liquidity of the market does not reach and we do a new tool'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u75	All right, you gave the explanation that was the reason to explode with the words 'funny guy' and the misunderstanding is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u76	It is not about the person, but about the way and the management of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u77	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u78	Minister, it is known that since 2012, eight years now, it has not been auctioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Kefaliannis, I'm sorry, but it's not the time for you to speak with Mr. Skourikos. Mr Kegeroglu is developing his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u80	Minister, it is known that since 2012, eight years now, no part of the North Road Axis of Crete has been auctioned and, apart from the fact that a auctioned section was cancelled in 2015 by SYRIZA, time has literally been shaken, without substantial preparation. The previous government opted for the scaling-up of the project, i.e. a section with concessions, a section with a public-private partnership and a section as a purely public project and did not go substantially into the preparation of the studies. That's well known. The debate that took place in 2019 - and before the elections, but immediately thereafter - was for the certainty of what you announced and during the government's programming statements, that, on the one hand, the way in which the previous government would go ahead of the project was to relate from Kissamos to Sitia and all the connections with the vertical and will have generous funding from the profits that Greece is entitled to from the European Central Bank. That was your proposal, ready to move on. Over the past few days, you announced the design of the project. In addition to the great delay and the loose programme you announced, with the first projects being carried out in the second half of 2023, you finally told us that we would put it in the Recovery Fund. Parenthesis: thankfully the pandemic has come, you mean. You have caused a lot of questions, but also anger, firstly, because you were not ready and, secondly, why you are copying the plan of the haircut of the previous government. The BOAK, which you will finally give by concession and will enter the Recovery Fund, is to the Linopera, barely in the Heraklion Prefecture, about half of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u81	What's the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u82	The question, therefore, is whether you will immediately review this plan to put in a tight schedule to implement the project and whether you have canceled even one of the previous decisions of the previous government, which had launched it in a distorted way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u83	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u84	In fact, Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer a very important issue which concerns not only our place of Crete, but also Greece as a whole, because you know very well that the region of Crete is the last region that does not have a modern motorway, with a time-consuming responsibility, of course, of all the governments. And you are really giving me the opportunity, because, unfortunately, unlike you, some others, either because of ignorance or because of haughtiness, are resorting to populism on this particular subject. I will reply specifically to what you have raised a moment ago. I would remind you, Mr Colleague, because you are asking what the differences in the planning of our SYRIZA are and the planning of SYRIZA, that the design initially advanced by the previous government said that the project would stop in Chania. You know that very well and I think at least that we can agree on it. Secondly, I have repeatedly said that I and the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, have unfortunately assumed the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in July 2019. And I have also caused any representative from the previous government, even from that ministry, to tell us whether there was any curriculum maturity. I therefore tell you, Mr President, that unfortunately, apart from a genogram, which existed from the previous government, no action had been taken but a theoretical declaration of first-stage tendering interest, as they had called it. But beyond that, none. To understand and know what we're talking about in this Chamber. In fact, five years - four and a half, in fact - governance of SYRIZA to the BOAK had not fallen a single study. Unfortunately, it is true that not only was there not a study carried out, it did not go any further, but also said Panormos - Exante, a project that had been joined, auctioned, so we went back five steps. As I said before, Mr Colleague, I will repeat this once again, the individual pieces are the design to Kissamos, which is the option, the new part. One difference in terms of the design of the SYRIZA is that it will indeed be auctioned up to the Hersonissos, not until the Linoperms - and I will explain what the difference is - as a concession contract. A new element also exists in connection with the planning of the SYRIZA Government is that we are now integrating the linking of Chania airport - and you know how important this is - with the BOAK. In fact, I would like to tell you the news that next week the procedures for the assignment of a technical consultant to the study of this section are under way. The second section is indeed the Hersonissos Naples, which will be auctioned as a PPP. And the third section is - be careful - Naples - Sitia has not changed programming, which will be auctioned as a public project. So the design of the BOAK, whether it will be a concession contract, whether it is a PPP, whether it is a public project, it is not because a minister decides it from his head, but is made on the basis of specific models, there are specific technical parameters that one should consider. Such, for example, parameters are traffic loads, are the expected passages, so that there is what the engineers say the value engineing. For all this, we also need to see the sustainability of the track in order to see what we are deciding as the best way of implementing. I shall finish my prototype, Mr President, and Mr Colleagues, with the following: for the vertical links you refer to Ierapetra and, to be precise, for the Pachia Ammos - Ierapetra is provided for in the study prepared in the four-dimensional section, i.e. two lanes per direction with a separate pavement. And also to close my protology by saying this. A timetable has been announced for which you know very well - and you are experienced, you have been Minister - that when we talk about a project of enormous importance, about such great work with various difficulties to say that it starts studies in 2019 and starts work at some point in 2023, I think it is a very realistic goal, not to mock our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u86	Minister, I'm not fooling anyone, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u87	I didn't talk about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u88	There is, of course, a colleague of yours who is protesting. I don't know if he's right. It's a matter of parliamentary control. He has, however, publicly expressed his different view that the timetable is very relaxed and should be withdrawn and revised immediately. It's Mr. Voloudakis' statement, I'll put it in the Minutes. I am not counting on it, just to mention it to show you that there are protests from your area. It's not a party matter. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let's go see the substance. You haven't changed anything SYRIZA has done. You added the piece Kissamos - Chania and the connection to Chania airport. That's what you did. Now listen to what you're saying. We will grant a concession of 800 million - I do not know how much - from the Recovery Fund - public money - the Kissamos to Hersonissos in order to get tolls to pay the rest of the project. In other words, the Lino-periphery section - Hersonissos, which is ready for work, public work, and while we are entitled as taxpayers to pass through this public work, without making any intervention in this department and without making a new path you will make us pay a toll to the work that has been done today with public money. Haircutting is a reality and you confirmed it. This means that the project will go at different speeds, at different rates, so the easter ones are rightly complaining that they do not exist on the map. Not only are they protesting now, they have been protesting for a long time and they are also about Ierapetra, Sitia, Agios Nikolaos, the different treatment. Those who are treated in the worst way, however, are those who will move within Heraklion Prefecture in public work paying again. If you want to do a concession and work in Chania and Rethymnon, you will put it up to the Linoperamas, where it will be connected to the ready work. I mean, if you want to do it by concession, the way you've chosen, so that they can get into that toll. If you want to have a different approach, study the single one. While maintaining the old route by 82% - and I would like if there is this element to give it to us, Minister, I do not know if it is accurate and I would like you to tell us the new route in just how many kilometres it will take and in what parts there is a new route - while we have a public work of sixty kilometers, these sixty kilometers you give them a gift to get into tolls. It is clear that there is a huge distortion both of the procedures and of the institutions and of the choices you have had. All of them contribute to the long delay in the loose programs, but above all to encapsulate the project within a concession design, which is not necessary. It is not necessary and it is not from the Constitution that your position that stipulates that on the islands we must have another treatment, there can be no closed road system with tolls on the island. That's too far gone. If a price were to be paid, it should concern only the maintenance and management of the project and not its construction for another reason, Mr. Kefaliannis, you are in the relevant Ministry....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u89	Please complete with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u90	I'm finishing up with this last one. We all say that all parties have responsibilities for the long delay. So when the Greek state did not finance the implementation of the BOAK, which we all have a responsibility, does it not now have to finish the project? After prioritising the rest of Greece, the works have been finished and now that the time has come for Crete, we say that we will give it to a private person to do so. Review, Mr. Kefaliannis. You're in the appropriate department. We need Crete to get what belongs to her and the time she belongs to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, you have put too many questions out of question, but I will answer one by one for our fellow citizens to listen to us in Crete. I will tell you one thing, which you know very well and we must not do what we are deaf, Mr Colleague. Even if we had a magical way to find the money to build BOAK - but listen carefully to what I say to you, please - just to keep it, because of the lack of traffic loads, there should be funding, whether it be called tolls or another way, so that there can be annual maintenance of this road. You know that well, and if you don't know it, when the time comes, we'll give you the official information about the traffic burdens, to tell the truth to the Cretan people as well. That is the only reason that has been chosen, among other things, if you like, for this specific financial model. But I do not really understand where it appears that the funding from the Recovery Fund and the integration of the BOAK project into it does not include the parts, as you have said, of the regional unit of Heraklion and Lassithi. Because you know very well, Mr Colleague, that the project, regardless of the limits of the regional unit it runs, is, in fact, a single project. The fact that parts of it are made in a different way, if you like, does not deny the fact that we as a ministry, as a government, consider this work to be a single one. I would remind you that our government - I will say once again - redesigned this work, not only constructionally, because, as you know, a huge project over two hundred kilometres has had some technical difficulties, whether these are geographical or sometimes reasonable remarks from the part of archaeology. You realize we're talking about a two-mile project. All these difficulties, and the good cooperation we have had with the relevant ministries, have overcome them. That is why - I repeat - in conjunction with the maturation of the studies, we are now happy to say, as the Minister from the Step of the House in the budget announced, that the environmental impact study will be completed by February at the latest to send it to the relevant Ministry of Energy and the Environment to take GDP. So I'm explaining the redesign once again, maybe because you don't want to understand it. What did SYRIZA design say? Only for the part of the concession - I repeat the part of Chania - Hersonissos, while we call Kissamos - Hersonissos the part of the concession - SYRIZA predicted 944 million. We, because of the new elements that we put in - and I will say what the new figures are - will go to 1.5 billion, only for that part that I am telling you. What are the new facts, which I am telling you, why may you perhaps have a misinformation? Even the built pieces of sixty kilometers you say, that is, commonly the three bypasses of the cities of Heraklion, Rethymno and Chania, will in fact be built almost from the beginning. Why? Because as you know very well, there are roads that you and I are on a regular basis and do not have the elements of a modern motorway. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] For example, the stadium that exists in the Greek-popular until you go to Hersonissos, is not a breast on the basis of the modern standards. Also, the pavement is not what a modern highway needs, like entrances and exits are not what a modern highway needs. Even these sixty kilometers, which were indeed built as a public work, will rebuilt. The plan provided for a financial contribution by the Greek State on SYRIZA. Our own budget, based on data, is at 800 million. All of this will indeed be covered by the grant side - pay attention to grants - of the Recovery Fund. And because you mentioned that Lassithi is outside the fund, I inform you that the Naples-Saint Nikolaos department has also been proposed to join for full funding. So no county stays out. Finally, with regard to the part of the axis of Agios Nikolaos - Sitia, I mention the following. First of all, the Kavalios - Froze Bridge - Palais Ammos bypass, the Kavossi - Achenas - Anchonias and, of course, the vertical axis of Paleia Ammos - Ierapetras will be integrated into co-financed projects with the NSRF. So no part of Crete stays out of planning and I say it again. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would also remind you, Mr President, that in addition to the long-term interventions we are doing in the construction of the BOAK, you know very well that restoration work is already under way from natural disasters, but, above all, road safety interventions. Of course, do not forget that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is going to intervene and the vertical axes. I remind you now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u93	All right, let's not say now the whole transport problem of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u94	I shall conclude with a phrase, Mr President. Just yesterday, as you know very well, Mr Colleague, the vertical axis of Heraklion - Anogia joined the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport Municipalities and this is a project that is also linked to the design part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u95	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Food Policy, Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Foreign Affairs, and the State Secretarys of Civil Protection and Prime Minister - there has been nothing left outside the Government, namely - submitted on 17-12-20 a draft law: ‘Confidentiality for the protection of public health against the consequences of the COVID 19 pandemic, strengthening public transport, speeding up the award of pensions, regulating debts to local authorities and other emergency provisions’. The above bill has been classified by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. We move to the third with number 253/14-12-2020 on top of the second question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport - Mrs Styliani Mendoni, who is always present - on the subject: 'The uninterrupted functioning of the New Mesara Museum'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. The Mesaras Museum is a project that was essentially carried out in the crisis by the Ministry of Culture and is a jewel for Crete and especially for Mesara. The interest of all is, therefore, for granted in order to function unnecessarily. However, there have been doubts and doubts as to what the Mesara Museum will include in terms of exhibits and activity by extension and, above all, there has been a widespread concern and confusion at the same time about what the new law applies. In the new law, there was a change in the procedure for private collections and this was somehow linked to the operation of the Mesara Museum. So the question today is to ask you, through parliamentary control, to ensure that the Messara Museum operates uninterruptedly, to inform us about the development of the project and its complete operation, when it will begin. Why has the implementation of the museology been delayed so far? How many exhibits does it include? And of course, if there is, as I raise in the second question, a request or a proposal or an intention or thought to extract exhibits from the Heraklion Museum, the Mesaras Museum, the EMCDDA or other Crete museums, in any case, to see whether it is related to the new law. We want your position and, above all, your political decisions and opinions on the issues raised. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u97	Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I thank you for the question, because it is an opportunity to make it clear once again a few things which seem to be difficult to understand. Indeed, as you said, the Mesaras Museum joined the regional program of Crete 2007-2013 in 2011, after decades of promises that it will be made. So he joined and was handed over by the technical services of the Ministry of Culture at the Embassy of Heraklion at the end of 2015. From there on, a very long delay begins, in the sense that the musical and musical study, which was filed in the first half of 2016 by the Cabinet at the Ministry's Central Service, was finally adopted by the Museum Council on June 19, 2017. Automatically, that's where we've been a year and a half late. In addition, implementation studies had not ensured that they were finally approved in May 2019. I have said on other occasions that the situation in the evolution and absorption of the ESRB projects between 2015 and 2019 was not the best. At least in Crete we had only 9% absorption. Since July 2019, a systematic effort has been launched which has given 100%. The simplest result is that absorption in 2020 increased by 100%. Finally, we managed to include the exhibition of the Mesara Museum on October 2, 2019, with a budget of 2.4 million and a timetable for the project to end June 30, 2023. The project is currently in full progress. All the necessary contracts have been made, the staff needed have already been hired, digital applications have gone through with a separate allocation from the Crete MAGP 290 million and an effort is made by everyone not to waste the time of June 30, 2023, but to postpone the start of the museum in 2022. Now, the museum and museum study predict the eight hundred and twenty-nine objects report. The museum is performed with great responsibility from the Educacy of Heraklion and fully modern standards. In these eight hundred and twenty-nine objects, which were adopted, as I said, in the museum and museum study in 2017, twenty-one objects were included from Saint Tito, Gortyna, which are currently exposed to the Historical Museum of Crete. These twenty-one objects, as I have said in the very recent discussion of the law you mentioned, will be regularly returned and will be included in the exhibition of the Archaeological Museum of Mesara. What we did with the recent Law 4761 is to ensure from now on that the Historical Museum of Crete and its collections remain uniform. It has nothing to do with one regulation on the exhibition of these exhibits and their inclusion in the report of the Mesara Museum. From there on, about your question about 20-year-old lending, what to tell you. You are an experienced parliamentarian and I think you are reading the provisions that we are going through. If one had read the provision carefully, one would see that it relates to non-public museums. Therefore, neither Heraklion Museum nor Mesara Museum nor any other public museum is subject to this arrangement. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I thank you for the answers, but I have to raise a few questions. Of course, you were clear both about the progress of the project and about the course of implementation. I note, however, and I cannot say it, that while the project was, in fact, built by a decision of 2011, under the Ministerial Decree of Mr Geroulanos, if I remember correctly, the question of implementation, the implementation of a musical study until the first visitor is too late. I would like to know how this huge delay is justified. We've been talking for nine years. The project as an infrastructure has been completed for a long time. You have already given two dates, that 2017 was a milestone, but the implementation study is actually starting now with the inclusion of the project to 2.4 million you say. That's what you were analyzing. Where I wish to insist, however, it is, of course, the piece with the exhibits and I say that the museum's dynamics are about eight hundred and twenty-nine exhibits. I also raised a point in discussing the draft law implementing the CSCE decision on the return of objects to the Mesara Museum. When I return, I say it in the sense that it's from Gortina the twenty-one objects. You've covered that, too. But here, there is a letter sent to you by the vice mayor of Heraklion. There are publications which I will present to you and there are MPs and archaeologists, where they speak of two and a half thousand objects belonging to the Mesara Museum and which would go to the Museum, supposedly according to the archaeologists, at the Mesaras Museum, where eight hundred and twenty specific objects are provided for. The eight hundred twenty-nine is one of those two and a half thousand or is it different? And they say both the letter that has come to you - and I will submit it - and the publications, but the colleague had put it that these two and a half thousand will go for export. Is it in the collection of the Historical Museum of Crete? Where do these two and a half thousand objects refer? What if it's in the collection of the Historical Museum, the museum has said that it will ask for the use of the law for export or rather for borrowing, as stated in the law? My political position on the subject was in the bill. I'm not gonna do it today. There is no reason for me to repeat the same. We are not opposed to cultural diplomacy. But they must be in accordance with rules, the guarantee of the CSCE and, of course, they must be in the limited time in which all of us have the possibility of monitoring. But give answers to what is in the air, Minister, because there are no doubts or if there is a real problem, see it and see how we are dealing with it. I want clean answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u101	As regards the first part, Mr Kegerolou, and the nine years of delay, Ms. Mendonis has been a Minister of Government for a year and a half. He will not apologise for the past seven and a half years. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u103	He knows very well to tell us why he was Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u104	I'm saying, Mr. Kegeroglu, because you put it all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u105	Mr Papoutsis, precisely because I know well, I tell you that the project joined in 2011 to build the building. The building was delivered according to planning made by the governments 2011-January 2015, which was for the end of 2015. We had planned things well and delivered the building within a timescale. From that point on, it is obviously the safety of some who did not coordinate the ESDP projects. I have said so many times that the services are doing, but we also need a central coordination, because they are difficult work and involve more services of one kind. So when we get the service right to prepare the studies, musical and journalistic, in 2016, to pass through the Museum Council - where the Ministry's Secretary-General presides, so he makes the agenda - in June 2017, you automatically have an excuse for a year and a half. If it took about two years after June 2017 to carry out the implementation studies, someone again has a responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u106	They couldn't be done together?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u107	But that's what I'm telling you. These are coordination issues that are not just dependent on Heraklion. Therefore, what is being embodied and in this case is that, in 2015-2019, the projects of the ESRB had actually been left to their luck. There was no central coordination. We arrive, therefore, while the building has been delivered in 2015, while all could have been approved in 2016, at the latest in 2017, we arrive in May 2019 to approve the implementation studies. Once adopted, it was the main prerequisite for integrating the project into the NSRP, when it became applicable. We incorporated the project in October 2019. From there on, the work is running properly today. With regard to your concern about the findings, the report, I repeat, lacks anything that was approved in 2017 and the twenty-one objects from the exhibition of the Historical Museum of Crete. I think that as Heraklion you recognize both its value and its importance and that it is a jewel for Heraklion and for all of Crete the Historical Museum.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u108	I'm already on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u109	So these objects will leave the exhibition of the Historical Museum and go to the exhibition of the Mesara Museum. From there on, perhaps any of the other objects of the collection of the Historical Museum could belong to where? In Messara? Not in Heraklion's office, if they belong somewhere. They come from the Prefecture of Heraklion and from the wider Crete. You know very well the composition of the collection of the Historical Museum since 1952. So what happens is that probably some of the objects you say, which would be in the warehouses of the Mesara Museum, are exposed and will continue to be exposed to the Historical Museum of Crete. I think there is no reason why visitors, but also the citizens of Crete themselves, can not see them because they will be in the warehouse of a museum just to be in the warehouse. That goes beyond me personally and, in any case, that is not a proper policy. From there on, on the last law, with Law 4761, I said earlier that the article concerns non-public museums. The only museum from Crete that could ask for long-term lending of twenty-five years would be the Historical Museum of Crete. He didn't ask for it, nor, as far as I know, he's in his plans. If, after a few years, it is ready for that, then the people who have to discuss it. Today, however, there is no prospect of this in the near future.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u110	Only Benaki has asked Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u111	Greece today has only requested it from the Benaki Museum. We talked about it, and we talked about it again in detail. Only the Benaki Museum. Furthermore, there are clear conditions for how a museum can establish another, its own subsidiary museum abroad. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u112	And we reach the last question, in the third with number 267/14-12-2020, a top-level question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The Scholarships of the Foundation of State Scholarships (IKY), which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a serious issue lately, since there are too many students who, while they are entitled to scholarships awarded by the State grant institution or who are entitled to housing benefits because of the social criteria, are ultimately excluded from receiving the specific aids in question, under the pretext of late submission of certain supporting documents required. We must say here that in similar cases in previous years the administration of the state scholarship institution or other state bodies itself, anyway, asked in writing for the documents to be completed - it was not characterised by a consortium - and so they gave the right, in the whole process chosen, to receive the benefits they were entitled to. Of course, because we have also received - and I imagine you too - letters and protests by parents and families who have lost the allowance, it is reasonable to ask whether the lack of a single supporting document should lead to a rejection of classification and, indeed, of secondary importance, of importance, or whether the institution of state grants itself had a responsibility to look for it. There are, finally - and this is extremely serious - very serious complaints of opaqueness and lack of objectivity in the examination of the objections of students whose application has been rejected. You understand that losing these students and these families is another blow. So we ask you what you are going to do, so that no student, who is entitled to it, is excluded from receiving a grant, housing allowance, relocation, all that is needed, due to a delay or a justification. We are also asking you what you are going to do to broaden these criteria, because the number of beneficiaries of all these benefits must be increased, because the needs and costs themselves have increased, ultimately, in higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, Mr. Delis, let's start with the basics. The IKY is an independent body with a board of directors and has the power to manage the grants. The Minister of Education shall have the power to appoint the Board of Directors of the IKY and to adopt, together with the Ministers responsible, the decisions necessary for awarding grants under the various programmes. Such a case is also the IKY-EKO programme, which you refer to in your question, of the "Human Resources, Education & Lifelong Learning" program, which is funded by the European Social Fund and this year supplements four cycles, starting from the academic year 2016-2017. The most important thing, Mr Delis: Ministerial decisions are legislative texts. Invitations shall have specific terms and conditions which must be complied with. You understand that the agencies, the agencies, can't close their eyes. We all understand that some applicants may have failed to submit any documents, but at the same time some other candidates had complete files. That's not a pretext, Mr. Delia. It's legal and it's rules. And we cannot, for the sake of easy populism, invite the services to announce. We would be happy - both the IKY and the head of the Ministry of Education - that all applicants could receive these grants. But, to better understand it, the NRP has specific rules and is subject to strict compliance checks with the relevant notices. The aim is to ensure, on the one hand, transparency and, on the other, equal treatment of all candidates. So the issues with the IKY-EKY invitations begin with the previous administration of the IKY. There was a major problem, which is linked to what you have to say in your question. What happened? The administration of the previous IKY had interpreted, without any solid basis, that those who did not provide within the deadline one or more supporting documents or inadvertently stated modulated criteria which did not fulfil - i.e. declared criteria that brought them above - were able, through objections, to correct the above criteria. I'm telling you what the relevant CIA says. Where there is an inaccurate or inaccurate record of data, or where it is submitted in due course, or where it is not accompanied by the supporting documents required, or where it does not fulfil the conditions and conditions of the decision, or where the status declared and numbered, the application shall be rejected as eligible and replaced by the list of parties concerned. That's the same thing the CIA says about this year's proclamation. So - and despite its good intentions - which the previous administration of the IKH did, we cannot ask that the present administration do so too. And I mean badly, because it involved four hundred nineteen objectors, who thought they were rightful, but, unfortunately, non-compliance with the rules has an impact. I will submit for the minutes the document of the Special Management Agency for the Operational Programme, which reads: "We would like to draw your attention to the interpretation and the absolute respect of the terms of the current CRL where documents, supporting documents, can only be clarifyative of some of the remaining documents. Documents or supporting documents which come to treat shortcomings in the applicant’s file should not be accepted.’ You understand, Mr Delis, because I said 'bad' before. Such practices will lead to ineligible expenditure and not only. I would also add that I had also sent a document to the then board of directors of the IKY - which I will also present in the Minutes - to which I mentioned what is generally applicable in administrative law, namely that the submission of missing documents after the expiry of the final date is not permitted even if the supporting documents are complementary. Furthermore, according to the case-law of the administrative courts, a derogation from the above-mentioned principle to ensure and respect the principle of legitimate expectations of the rightholder and good administration can only be made where the documents submitted, which were submitted, show errors due to the administrative body which issued them. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll mention more about this year's notice in my dentistry, so I won't take any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u117	Yes, Minister, I have listened very carefully. You said about the invitations that they are, in fact, Community texts and, in any case, that the funding of the ESDP is subject to rules. What we want to tell you is that these rules must be respected to everyone. Because, as I have said, there are serious and numerous complaints, names, opacity and procedures. How can I tell you? I have even received a letter from a student from a mother who was excluded from the grant of this grant from the IKY, who denounces with very specific information and an in-depth text all about this notice. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I don't know if you know. It is well to read it to see what is going on there at the IKH and how for some of the supporting documents they need are baptized "specified" and accepted, while for others the supporting documents they need are baptized "missive" and not accepted, so some get the allowance and some don't get it. We say that those who take it well do and take it, but that everyone who deserves it, and not the pretexts of all these documents, of late or late or late, which are also due to successive extensions throughout the first quarantine of April, May etc., which all these people and their families should watch the IKY announcements. In any case, we think that it could be more widespread in dealing with this issue. However, the question we raise, and on this occasion, is more general. And this letter I tabled is extremely important. We say that the criteria and beneficiaries of all these grants, scholarships, housing, students should be widened, because they simply need much more. Of course, here I can guess your answer in advance, that there is a problem of money and where we will find the money and everything, we do not have the money tree, etc. It is the permanent argument, not only of your own, but also of the previous governments. The answer, which I give you in advance because I know in advance what I will hear, is that when you are going to give money to 'Fulbright' institutions, which belongs to the State Department of the United States - yesterday you have legislated this - you find it or when you are going to finance - so far 30 million, you have planned to suppress, repressive mechanisms and braces in the universities again. However, if it is for students' homes, for the needs of students or for these necessary social benefits, then you call for the lack of money there. In any case, in order to close this issue, we think that the Ministry and you and the leadership, as a whole, of the Ministry of Education should see this issue more widely. This letter will help you in this regard in order to restore the many injustices, which have certainly existed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u119	Mr Colleagues, if there are any surnamed complaints, they will be properly investigated. I can assure you of that. Now, as far as the EEIG programme is concerned, this programme has been involved for 2018-2019, which is what your question, seventeen thousand candidates, is about to provide three thousand seventy-seven scholarships, with a budget of EUR 13 million. The first five thousand seven hundred were selected and were invited to submit the certificates. You can understand that this is a process with a number of supporting documents, complex, but it is not right what you mentioned in your dentistry. The previous administration of the IKY invited these applicants to submit late submissions, i.e. the invitation made by the administration of the IKY had infringed the notification of the programme, which was in breach of the principles of administrative law, which I mentioned earlier. This decision therefore led to the intervention of the managing authority, resulting in the retroactive withdrawal of scholarships and annulment of planned contracts. So the result is we all saw what it is, that is, the withdrawal of scholarships, the disappointment of scholars and the conducting of procedures for the performance of responsibilities. We cannot repeat the same mistakes. But I would like to come to the second part of your question, which I consider to be important. You guessed wrong, Mr. Delia. I will not answer you the way you think. I'll tell you that we all support our students, the weak and the other students, because they encourage excellence. We support student care. There will be significant initiatives in the Recovery Fund for students at our universities, especially in regional areas. However, in returning to scholarships, Mr Delis, a provision of law was passed yesterday with which we grant scholarships. The IKY will grant scholarships to the first graduates of each university section 1000 euros in order to be able to reward excellence but also to give them one, even small, help, starting the next phase of their lives. These scholarships, Mr Delis, I was sad to see that your party did not vote for them yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u120	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-18-S1-commons.u121	With the consent of the House at 10.47 minutes, the sitting for Monday, December 21, 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, on the agenda to be distributed.
