ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 13 January 2020 that the topical and urgent questions to be debated are as follows: The question under number 352/7-1-2020, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Konstantinos Vlassi. The question under number 341/7-1-2020, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. The number 343/7-1-2020 and 344/7-1-2020 topical questions which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport Mr Eleftherios Aygeakis. So we begin with the second, with number 341/7-1-2020, a top-level question from the Member of the Aetolokarnania Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Amendments to the operation of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies of the University of Patras based in Agrini". The question will be answered by Mr Vassiliou Digalakis, State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u2	Minister, the university community, the local actors and the Aetolokarnania society, I'd say it's in a turbulence. With the changes made by Mr.Gavroglou, tertiary education was downgraded in Eitolokarnania, namely the part of Nafpaktos closed, the Messolonghi is in decline and Agrini is now in operation. And today, with your own regulations, you are validating this injustice. With Law 4610/2019 the Ministry of Education abolished the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies of Agrinio and founded with a furniture - I would say - majority and pressures the Historical - Archaeological in Patras with operation in Agrinio. All this, Minister, on one night, at a rough night, without a feasibility study, without an opinion of the IPTO, without consultation. One wonders why all this. Rather, to satisfy university collaborative interests and, in particular, LPIS members. I should like to stress here that the department was abolished while it was constantly improving. He had excellent logistics, a modern curriculum, a postgraduate curriculum that works as well today and a certification from the ADI with effect up to 2023. He also had seventeen LAG members, three hundred in active students, seven hundred graduates. I'm coming to today. Today, Minister, on the substance of the matter, two parallel sections operate in the wilderness. In other words, the History - Archaeological for the first year and the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies for the active undergraduate and postgraduate students. However, there is a common finding. The new department's curriculum does not correspond to its curriculum and this should be kept. And that's because it's reluctantly trying to incorporate old and new students, as well as existing LPI members. In fact, many teachers remain unobjective, with the result that the department is in danger of being dismantled by LPIS members. Here, Minister, it must be stressed that there is no provision, but no provision, to guarantee the professional rights of students who are administratively subject to the Historical - Archaeological and who will receive a degree from the old department, likewise for graduates. Minister, I would remind you that this section has been in occupation for two months and a solution is therefore needed here and now. For all of us, a unique and sustainable solution is the establishment of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies. After all, no one has any objections to the functioning of the two sections, which can indeed be a school. In addition, both sections are required and should be included in the 2020 computer. Do not forget that there are infrastructures that can really be exploited. It is a proposal that local society, institutions and the academic community require. That is why I will table their decisions and resolutions. After that, Minister, you ask: Do you accept the deterioration made by the Gavroglou law in higher education in Aitolokarnania? In fact, I would say here that as a opposition, you had then staggered it, and you had denounced it. What do you intend to do to remove the injustices and how will you resolve the problems created by the abolition of the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies and, of course, what do you respond to the fair request by everyone for the establishment of this section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u3	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Constantopoulos, in your question you have made a description of the situation created by the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies of the University of Patras, which is, unfortunately, another example - as you have said - of the many problems caused us by the laws of SYRIZA in higher education. Since the beginning of the Ministry of Education's political leadership, we have raised these problems and the issues, where in a rough and violent way the previous Minister of Education has changed the academic map of higher education. Parts have been set up overnight, even with parliamentary amendments, with criteria, but not academically, but on the basis of micro-political purposes. You know them well, you were present in the previous House when all these bills were passed. So such an example was Mr.4610/2019, who was voted at the end of April, shortly before the elections, and also at the University of Patras. Without any justification, this Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies was abolished and a Department of History and Archaeology was established in its place. I would add here that looking historically will see that the specific Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies since 2004, which was first established, changed to fifteen years, three times a university. Started at the University of Ioannina, he went to the University of Western Greece to end up at the University of Patras. We are therefore opposed to these logics, with all that has happened in previous years, and that is why we are trying to resolve, with respect for procedures and institutions, with legislative initiatives. In this direction, therefore, the first bill we have tabled on higher education is being launched and is being introduced into the Morphic Affairs Committee tomorrow. It is an important initiative to upgrade higher education in our country, as with the enhanced new authority, the National Higher Education Authority, essentially the strategic planning and restructuring of the Charter of Higher Education will be based on recommendations from the independent authority and not on what the Minister of Education wants. So as far as your first question is concerned, the former TEI departments that were converted into or joined university departments have new entrant students, while still studying students in the previous years of the TEI departments. They are therefore invited to meet two parallel curricula and this raises issues in all these sections and not just in this section. Also, for the reopening of the Management Department, which is the question you ask, I should like to tell you here that on the basis of the draft law we have submitted, any proposal for the establishment, rename and reopening of a section will be passed by the independent authority, which will be proposed, in order to avoid, precisely, phenomena such as what we are called and are discussing today. The University of Patras therefore has the right and the opportunity to submit its proposal either for the reopening of the department or for the rename of the Department of History - Archaeology, which also includes digital means and to be able to accept the students of the TEI in order to be consistent with the objects of the two schools. We therefore want, on the basis of the National Authority for Higher Education, to form and implement a national strategy for higher education, to take advantage of all the possibilities for the creation and operation of academic departments and institutions on the ground, and to do so on the basis of feasibility, sustainability and connection studies with the labour market, so that the graduates of the departments have professional prospects.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u6	Minister, this Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies was certified on 9-1-2019 by the IPP. That's what you keep. However, Mr Gavroglou has abolished it. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that crime against Aetolokarnania - and in particular on higher education issues - is lasting. I would remind you that since 2012 the only university to be abolished has been the University of Western Greece, based in Agrini. In 2015 we succeeded in this Chamber - personally, the suspect, I had brought twice-time questions - and they remained the three university departments in Agrinio, because the Senate had decided to transfer the three university departments, which had remained since the abolition of 2012, from Agrinio to Patras. In 2019 with Law 4610/2019, the Law Gavroglou changed, in the hand, the university map of Atolokarnania. In fact, here I would say that there were two measures and two stations, universities of applied technologies for TEI in Rethymnon and, at the same time, the departments of Aetolokarnania in dismantling or moving. In other words, the model of Rethymno was not applied to Messolong, which had and had the prerequisites and logistics to host a corresponding university institution such as Rethymno. The University Departments of Agrinio dismantled and hostage. The Agricultural School, which was founded with two sections in Agrinio and three in Messolong, has two suspensions and three functions. It was abolished and the only Department of Telecommunications and Informatics that Nafpattos had. The conclusions of yours. And all this because? Because Aetolocarnania, despite the fact that she embraced the higher education departments and was looking forward to their aid, received degradation and dismantling instead. I have already tabled the decisions and resolutions of the bodies which even condemn the abolition of the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies. The dismantled section had a spearhead of new technologies and cultural management, unique and innovative objects in Greece, and indeed with concrete and tangible professional rights, because the right to all sections is professional rights. Modern culture is a widespread field of study in Europe, and this has not been taken into account. Today, however, it will work Historical and Archaeological Department. And indeed one wonders how this department will work with an archaeologist, a philosopher and two historians. That is why it is crucial and imperative, Minister, until the decision is taken to suspend all, but all the moves of the IGC members. We've got to stop this corn by transferring the ICP members from Agrinio to Patras. Besides, the back thought of some led things here. And that's sunlight more obvious. Because if this is the case with the transfer, i.e. the transfer of members from Agrinio to Patras, the department is generally in danger of being dismantled by teachers. Minister, Greece as a pillar of culture with enormous cultural wealth needs specialized scientists and, of course, the management of our cultural environment. There is archaeological wealth of all the historical periods in Ietolokarnania. There are ancient cities, theatres and related historical monuments. It is also located in the center of the triangle, Ancient Olympia - Dodoni - Delphi. Reset, then! This is imposed and imposed. Creation of the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies. The functioning of this section is consistent with the history, but also with the culture of the place. I heard before you mention that, once the Patras Senate is recommended, or the re-establishment, you will do the thing. Do you commit? Because Ms. Kyriazopoulou told the city council of Agrinio that after they wanted it, they didn't have any problems with institutions, students, teachers, the academic community as a whole, they don't have any problems. And he threw the ball on you. Will you do it, Minister? Do the thing. Besides, do not forget - and I will end - that the autonomous operation of both departments is both reasonable and sustainable and can both be a school in Agrini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u8	I will probably have to repeat a few things to be clearer. In our minds, the design of higher education and the map of higher education must be based on certain criteria. These criteria are as follows. First, the student and the professional prospects of the objects they study. Secondly, respect for the self-employed of the university on the basis of which the suggestions for the creation of schools - departments, curriculum programmes start with the university itself. Thirdly, these recommendations should be judged and assessed by an independent authority, in this case the new authority, the National Higher Education Authority, which we have established in the new draft law that we have tabled in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u9	The PPP had expressed a favourable opinion, but Mr Gavroglou did not consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u10	Clearly the IPD had certified this section. I am talking about restructuring the map of higher education, which should be based on the criteria I have mentioned. In other words, it must at the heart be the student and not other micropolitical criteria, as were the practices that have been followed in the past. On the basis of an evaluation of the proposal of the University of Patras, which will be submitted to the new independent authority, the Ministry will follow the recommendations of this independent authority, on how it is best for students to form the curriculum of the University of Patras dealing with this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u12	Minister, a political decision has been abolished, with a political decision to re-establish itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u13	But that's how we're going to repeat mistakes of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u14	There's no way. The children are already in possession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue, let me make the following announcements: First, MP, Mr Ioannis Burnus, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period 14 to 17 January 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Secondly, the Ministers for Home Affairs and Justice tabled on 13-1-2020 a draft law: 'Election of Members'. Thirdly, the Ministers for Education and Religion, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Interior, Tourism and State, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, tabled a draft law on 10-1-2020: "National Authority for Higher Education, Special Accounts for Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology Bodies and other provisions". Finally, the Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance and Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 13-1-2020: "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Georgia on cooperation in the fight against crime". We are now continuing with the third under the number 343/7-1-2020 current question of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Problems faced by classical sport in Thessaloniki and especially the National Katanzoglio Stadium". The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Delis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, our question, which has been tabled for some time now, concerns the Katanzoglio Stadium of Thessaloniki, the largest sports centre in Thessaloniki, northern Greece and one of the largest and most important sports in Greece and its relationship, of course, with the classic sport that is, and here I think the President - the alpha and the omega of sport will agree. This, then, is what the Katanzoglio Stadium, Minister, which consists of the central stage and its auxiliaries, beside those who know it, has dealt with and is still facing a great many problems and cannot respond to its role as a classic sport in the city, as we have said in northern Greece. And yes, after the coordinated efforts of the Thessaloniki SAGAS restored the pot and the coachery, the assistant's special carpet, as the grass was restored to the main stage, but there is a very serious problem. It can't be any kind of practice, it's dangerous for athletes the main stage. What does that mean? It means that at a stage in which more than two thousand athletes are struggling from about fifty unions - and we understand the crowd that is happening - there is virtually no sport. Once the central-stage tart can't respond, not all these athletes can concentrate only on the helper. I note here that there is a closed one, a small one, just behind the central stage which, of course, is too small for the bad weather and does not fit the athletes. The tartan, the plastic carpet of the main stage had started to happen since last spring, but suddenly stopped in August due to the rains. Okay, it doesn't rain all the time. At some point the rain has stopped, but it has not been announced until now when this will happen so that athletes can find a rhythm. In any case, these are the problems. The problems are very serious. And today by a similar meeting in the city again, I think the alarm and the problems of the stage were struck. Our question is what your government will do, because you are now in power, in relation to the Caucasus Stadium and the role it must perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u19	Mr Colleagues, I welcome your interest in the work of repairing and maintaining the facilities of the Katanzoglou and as you know from the very first moment I have to be in this House and replying. But a trip abroad did not allow me once and then a coma of yours did not allow us to discuss the matter in the House earlier. But we are here today to inform you of the point you raised in your question. Now, on the basis of the Kakatanzoglio Project Convention - repair and maintenance works were performed and the works for the restoration of the track, the auxiliary field of Kakatanzoglou, with the coating of a new rubber box, replacement of the existing turf of the main field with prefabricated turf, replacement of the existing turf of the auxiliary field with prefabricated material. Also, the contract of the project National Katanzoglio Stadium - replacement of the elastic carpet of the Municipality of Thessaloniki - Thessaloniki, the object of which is to replace the track of the main field, replace the wagons and supply new separators, started and is performed normally, according to the information I have from our technical services. Indeed, the contracting company carried out the work in accordance with the approved schedule after the completion of the construction of the traffic insurance. It was required a month for drying it, while on the basis of a time schedule the new synthetic rubber is only needed two months. However, the contracting company responsible for coating and installing the tyre requested, at its request, the supplier and the placement company, an extension to work as it considered it necessary for the proper application of the system materials, under which there is a need to be atmospheric humidity below 60% for the whole day, so that the materials can be homogenised, stabilised and acquired physiological resistance. Therefore, the reasonable delay in the completion of the project is not due to the satisfactorily neglect by the contracting company in order to achieve the correct execution and quality of the work in order to make safe use of the match by our athletes. The coating will be completed when weather conditions are appropriate, according to experts’ assessments of these operations. With regard to the capacity of the closed coachhouse, mentioned earlier, of the Katanzoglio Stadium as it exists today, it depends on any configuration of the space for the needs of the sports it houses. Management and operation, Mr Colleague, is the responsibility of the administration, which I trust and support and cooperate perfectly with local sports clubs. On the subject of the old times of the sports bodies mentioned, the situation of which is also the responsibility of the Management Committee, is to conclude a programme contract with the Region of Central Macedonia and to supply new institutions. We recognise - and I conclude with this, Madam President - that the situation currently in place at the National Katanzoglio Stadium is critical and many athletes are struggling for the preparation and completion of the work so that they can train in normal conditions within modern facilities. Unfortunately, this situation is not unprecedented. They are years and the previous government has very serious responsibilities, as it has recognised the problems which it has not dealt with responsiblely, rather than remained in announcements. As far as we can deal with the situation, we are moving decisively and I assure you of that, in order to facilitate and correct the current problems we face. In addition to the regular grant received by the Katanzogolian budget of EUR 650,000, we understood the criticality of the situation a few days ago, we approved an exceptional grant of EUR 65,000 to cover the exceptional costs of the sporting organisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Minister, we have said that the work that had to be done on the field was indeed done. With a long delay, of course, after ten years, but anyway they were done and delivered to the middle of 2018. The point is that this auxiliary field is not enough, it is not enough for the needs of two thousand athletes if the central stage work is not completed. You spoke about the situation and you described it as critical. We'd say it's a limit, Minister, it's a situation. We have met there with people who are hurting and working with the city track - people for years, for decades - and we have seen closely the difficulties of responding to this role. We saw track organs, what the sports of the track need, from obstacles and edges to bullets and discs, to be in too bad a condition and essentially inappropriate, to be used. All right, the competitions need to run, be done. But that can't last for months. You also talked about the work of coating the rubber carpet at the main stage and about humidity rates. I do not know if, since August and for all those months that have passed since then, some days have not been found that they have any moisture. Thessaloniki is generally a wet city, but, as far as we know, there are days when this coating could take place. I wish there was nothing else to hide, because the project was to surrender, Minister, in August 2019, and we are already in January 2020. I would like to make a small comment on the High Sports Center, which operates a department in the city of Thessaloniki. It is about twenty-fifths of these high-level athletes, who are sporting, and who also face the same problems that other athletes face. We don't split athletes into one. We want the conditions to be the smallest of the academy to the champion. Of course, in this whole situation, we see that the Greek track still brings successes, discrimination and medals. It is to their credit, but we think that at some point the state should show its interest. Excuse me, Minister, but the sum of EUR 650,000 for a huge sports centre like the National Katanzoglio Stadium is not enough for the most basic needs. The funding must be increased because the National Caucasus Stage is currently in the area of abandonment, Minister. We saw it with our eyes. We also saw the auxiliary and indoor areas dripping from everywhere with a small rain. There should be very important projects, that is, you should give money. At last, put some other priorities. Leave NATO a little complaining, leave some of the subsidies, incentives, all that your Government gives to big capital and give for sport, along with the education and health and the social needs of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u22	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u23	Mr Colleagues, let me assure you that we are absolutely not hiding anything. What I have to tell you, and I state it very clearly, and I take responsibility for the work that you have put forward, and of course the concern you have put forward. We fully understand your anxiety and this is clear, much more when the year we are in is Olympic year. However, in my brief term as State Secretary for Sport I have been faced with a number of issues about the smooth operation of the facilities throughout the country, without any discrimination. Unfortunately, I, too, are also called upon, but above all technical services, the officials of the General Secretariat of Sports, to deal with self-evident things, such as the training of our athletes in human conditions. Since taking over our governance, we have made steps to improve and maintain sports facilities and it is our main priority to upgrade the National Caucasus Stage. We are launching the procedures for moving the football section of PAOK in order to proceed with the construction of the new stadium in Toumba. Our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as well as the State Secretary for Sport, do our utmost to make progress immediately and to facilitate the plan of PAOK. We are in coordination with the new administration of the National Caucasus Stadium, which expects to cooperate and host the PAOK team until the work of the new field is completed. Of course, we will be charitable and facilitate licensing issues and wherever else required. At the same time, we are already in cooperation with the region for a number of upgrades and maintenances for the National Katanzoglio Stadium. Our aim is to help the fullest of the teams, how rather those that are starring at sport, football, to implement their construction plans and have their own modern and secure football courtes. We simply want, Mr Colleague, the AEK to struggle quickly on its new stadium in New Philadelphia. We want the Panathinaikos study to be developed quickly for his new country plan. We want PAOK to move forward for a modern European standard field in Thessaloniki, which will further upgrade its status as well as the wider region. We want the Panghret Stadium to upgrade and acquire modern structures so that it can be the home of our National Group and also the attraction of European organisations. We are here and we are open to all sports federations, to all athletes, but of course also to all fellow Members, on the basis of dialogue and realistic plans, to make the footage at the outset of athletes a reality. Soon, in the next few days, we conclude and sign a Memorandum of Cooperation with the "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT" concerning the facilities to be created by the "ELLENIC S.A." and will meet the needs of the facilities of Agios Cosmas. We are already in the first phase of the real utilization of Olympic property. I am referring to the closure in Liosia and the AEK, where it will be completed and, as it seems, in a very short time with the absolute cooperation of all eight sports federations in these facilities. Finally, the proposal to make use of the first section of the OAS, the tennis fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st High Tyrnavos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here is the second question under number 344/7-1-2020 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Sports and Culture on "Problems at the premises of the National Sport Centre of Larissa". The Secretary of State for Sports and Culture, Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis, will answer. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. [[At this point, F Vice-President George Lambroulis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Allow me to welcome for a few seconds the kids from the Tyrnavo High School, the compatriots. I'm coming to the question. As you said, Madam President, the question concerns the problems of the facilities of the National Sport Centre in Larissa, which have been a key pillar, namely, the development of sport throughout the Larissa Prefecture for a decade. However, they pose serious problems because of the inability, if you want, to ensure their proper maintenance, the lack of the necessary support structures, as well as the weakness of the General Secretariat of Sports, or of the Directorate for Sports and Infrastructure, to cover the financial sizes, the financial sizes needed to meet the needs, the obligations of maintenance, repairs and the issues of upgrades, such as energy upgrades of gymnasiums and other infrastructures. Both the management of the OSCE in Larissa and the workers in the previous years - because it is not a situation which has emerged in the last eight months, nine months, but a situation which lasts for years - with their interventions, with documents and to the General Secretariat of Sports, has hit the risk bell for years and lastly, in this summer. I will table for the record the letter to the General Secretariat of Sports and the proposals with the problems of R & D&D&I, at the core of these sports infrastructures in Larissa. So they are hitting the alarm over the state of infrastructure. On the other hand - I will say in my dentex - it concerns the facilities of both the Alkasar Land, the closed gym, the heavy sports hall, the swimming pool, and all the buildings and infrastructure that exist in this core. We in Larissa call him "Pyrena I", because there is also "Pyrena II" on the closed field of Naples. At the same time, there is a huge hypotension problem. Incomplete is the staff employed, which works, so that the administration can also be able, but also the facilities and facilities more generally of the corresponding care and repairs are provided. What steps will the Minister and the Ministry take to ensure, on the one hand, that all the necessary repairs are made, that the necessary projects are carried out, that the R & D infrastructure in Larissa is maintained? What action will you take in order to provide sufficient permanent staff for these units to function?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to welcome the students from Tyrnavos and thank my colleague for the question. Of course, I too would like to see, in my turn, that there is a real interest, because there are few times when we have spoken and telephone, in trying to deal with and highlight the problems of your prefecture's sports facilities. With regard to the implementation of the repair and maintenance projects through the Public Investment Program, it has already been ensured, sir, that the funding for the facilities of the National Sports Centre, in particular, the repair and upgrading of the heating system and hot water use of the closed Naples Fitness Center, EUR 185,000, the anti-memorandum protection work of the closed Neapolios budget gym of EUR 150,000 and the monitoring of the study of static adequacy and study of the static enhancement of the closed swimming pool and the tidals of the EASA Laris stadium, a budget of about 450,000 euros, on the Alkasar Stadium sports facilities. Our services are compiling the tender documents and the necessary steps are taken to open the tender in the next two months due to the immediate priority of the static adequacy of Alkazar's premises. With regard to the upgrading of the heating system and hot water use of the closed Naples Gymnasium, a study by the Management Committee of the Region of Larissa has been submitted by the Administrative Committee of the Region of Thessaly and is being explored to enable the region to take over the project as a body implementing the General Secretariat of Sport through the Public Investment Programme for a faster development of the project. In addition, our service compiles studies on the implementation of the active fire protection study approved by the Fire Service of the closed gym Alcasar and the reconstruction of the natural turf on the football stadium at Alcasar Stadium. Once the studies have been completed, the necessary steps will be taken to ensure funding through their inclusion in the Programme of the Public Investment Programme of the General Secretariat of Sports. The preparation of the books and the auctioning of the anti-military protection work of the closed gym of Naples will begin as soon as the tendering of the static adequacy studies and the strengthening of the sports facilities of the Alkazar Stadium is completed. Regarding the staffing of the centre mentioned by the required number of staff, the National Sports Centre Larissa has submitted the needs for permanent and seasonal staff for the four-year strategic recruitment planning of the General Secretariat of Sports. It should be stressed, however, that, due to the financial management of recent years, the state has been making every effort to enable all national centres to fulfil the purpose for which they have been established, namely to provide sport as a social asset. In this context, the amount of the regular grant for this body will be up to EUR 760,000 for the current year, while the planned revenues to be paid to the Larissa EAG in the year will amount to more than EUR 120,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. I referred to my prototype on the issue of sub-financing, to start with the last thing you said, Minister. Indeed, the budget and the funds allocated to such an sporting core, such as the Larissa EEIG, the EUR 600,000 or the EUR 700,000 or the 800,000. I also said it in my prototype, and I will put it in the Minutes - perhaps you also have it in mind - the document of the EPC administration with its respective speeches from the summer of 2019, that is, last summer. The cost was about, based on their own calculations, not final but approximately, about one million, which concerns all sports infrastructures. For the Alkasar stadium you also referred to the turf as well as the stagnation of the stands, as well as the existing spaces used within the stands of various sports. As, of course, there are also the shortcomings that have been mentioned in the previous question about the necessary equipment to do with the need to train athletes, athletes as a whole, not only in the track but also in the other sports. The Public Investment Program has been in place since the summer of 2017 and has been delayed - we illustrate it in the question - and the issues relating to the flood protection of the building of the closed Naples, as well as the repair and maintenance work of the OAS in Larissa, as well as the energy upgrade of the facilities to modernise them and, of course, the reduction of their operating costs. Also, as far as the closed gym in Naples is concerned, we consider it and we have pointed it out for years, since the nearby area was allocated to the closed area of Naples at the "Save of S.A.", that intervention is definitely needed and that this serious problem created by the concession of this area to "S.A." is required, thus putting it at serious risk and the safe operation of the installation of the closed gym in periods, i.e., which hosts matches or, if you like, championships, etc. It is a serious issue that both the administrations concerned have at times pointed out, and the latter and with its document the administration of the ESDP in Larissa. At the same time, it requires, of course, staff. Why don't you check it out. All this must be done and funds must be made available and it must be given. It has been said before. We give billions for military needs, at the same time that the Greek people are brewing and lacking basic needs for education, health and sport, we give them crumbs. This cannot go on. We think yes, that the state should have the responsibility, the responsibility for creating new structures, if you like. The specific facilities which have been asked and are being discussed today, i.e. on the basis of the accumulated problems, in the direction of repairs and the problems arising from their use over time, are too many years of operation. It's forty and fifty years. And now, you see, the staff can't handle the basics, the day-to-day operation and maintenance of these facilities, much more that the number of athletes, the teams that participated there, has risen sharply. Of course, we are also saying that it is also necessary to set up new sports facilities with the responsibility of the State and not only in Larissa, but also in the region of Larissa, as part of the prefecture. So, Minister, three axes come to the question. The first is therefore all these projects which will be necessary and must definitely be launched and implemented immediately, so that we do not have any potential risks for athletes and not for people. The second is personnel. And the third is funding. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u30	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, you will allow me to remind you once again that we are in the Olympic year. It is the year for which all our athletes are intensively preparing to distinguish and conquer a busy medal. Tokyo will hold the Olympic and Paralympic Games, in which I am sure our representatives will give their soul to win a place on the big list of our Olympics and fill us with indescribable moments of national pride. We in this effort, both as a Ministry of Sports, but also as a Parliament and as a government, are sick in their dreams and of course will support them in practice. Mr Colleagues, we are well aware that the economic situation in which the sports centres are located is not the best. As far as we can do so, we are trying to help both staff and infrastructure. In this regard, on the Larissa R&D&I a few days ago, we have approved an additional exceptional grant of more than EUR 50 000 to help cover the Agency's exceptional obligations at the request of the new management committee, which I trust and fully support. In addition, we must provide incentives and encourage sports centres to look for own resources. We are in contact with Thessaly Region and we will jointly implement a plan for the development of both the Larissa SA and the rest of the facilities in the area. In this philosophy, we are also moving with regard to the rest of our country's infrastructure. This is why cooperation projects are to be drawn up with the other regions. It must be made clear that by adopting the budget for 2020 we are aiming to escape misery and fearful attitudes and to go boldly, improving and modernising our country's sports facilities. We are implementing programmes for the modernisation, maintenance and energy upgrading of sports infrastructures, which will make a significant contribution to the drastic reduction in the operating costs of these infrastructures, as well as of course to the protection of the environment. We continue and expand, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, the 'Philodimo II' programme. So far over a period of just four months we have completed another fifty athletic budget projects of around 35 million euros. It is our great goal to absorb even more money from the Public Investment Programme for 2020 for the benefit of sports infrastructure and by extension of society. In this direction we have taken a number of initiatives on sports infrastructure and their upgrading. This is the first time, Mr Colleague, that a government has aheadied athletes and their needs and put them first. We believe it and we do it. We have held a meeting with the Olympics of our country and we have heard their request to make real use of the promotion of sport and the Olympic spirit. Under this law we introduced a provision a few months ago, which reminds us that it was passed by all the parties in this House, the provision of the secondment of the Olympics to the General Secretariat of Sports and to the supervised bodies throughout Greece. At the same time, sport for everyone is our priority and our policies focus on strengthening the institution. It should be noted that, for the first time this year, sport programmes for everyone started in time. For the first time, I note that the programmes have been implemented since October and not since Christmas, as they were starting in previous years. That is to say, five thousand programs, where about a thousand two hundred graduates of physical education are employed and about a hundred thousand fellow citizens are involved. Our programme for sport has in the first place the upgrading of professional and racing sport. We are going through steps that are firm and decisive in supporting high-performance sport and improving sport law, stressing the treatment of violence within and outside the field, dealing with mismanagement and, of course, transparency. In this context, we have already begun the implementation of an aptitude assessment system of federations, the innovative and innovative system of evaluation of 'Chillos', with perfectly measurable data, which captures data on the complete activities of the federations. The State grant will be distributed with absolute dignity and transparency by the following year. This system is implemented on the basis of the basic principles of the Council of Europe. I would just like to make one reference to the key issue of fanatic violence. We are working together with the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which has the first reason, with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Digital Policy, with actions coordinated with both the SGP and Super League, focusing on effective intervention in order to deal directly and in time with the incidents of fanatic violence. Also, in terms of doping to note that, in the context of the fight against doping, we are institutionally strengthening and supporting the mission and work of the National Doping Combat Council - commonly EKAN - which, as we are discussing today, has been converted into a National Anti-Doping Agency, in line with the comments and proposals of the Anti-Doping World Organisation, in common WADA. We set up a Scientific Committee to support the work of the Agency, proceeded with the process of transferring the anti-doping laboratory from OAS to 'Democritus', and proceeded with the procedures for purchasing the necessary equipment of EUR 2 million. Furthermore, thanks to the recent law adopted by the government just before the holidays, the Ministry of Finance - with two very important provisions that have become the law of the State - has made a reduction in the tax on business contracts to 22% since 45%, but also to tax for all of our country's amateur trade unions. These two provisions will contribute decisively to the development of amateur sport and are arrangements that will give breath to the area of amateur sport and athletes as a whole. Now only one last reference in the context of extroversion. The draft law titled "The Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan" is currently in Parliament. The ratification of this agreement strengthens cooperation between the two countries, with Japan and Greece, with a modern superpower in the field of sport, infrastructure and science ahead of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, and note that we have already signed a memorandum of cooperation with China a few months before the visit of the President of China to our country. With these steps, in general we believe and work in upgrading sport, and, of course, in strengthening our athletes and the efforts we are doing. We are sure that no one in this Chamber wants more or less the good of our athletes. We are also sure that, in such matters, we have a bright field to come to an agreement, to cooperate and to achieve the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the first with the number 352/7-1-2020 topical question of the Halkidiki Parliamentary Radical Left Coalition Mr.Syria Malama to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The need for immediate action to repatriate Greek seafarers in Djibouti", which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Vlasissis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as you know, at the moment we are talking, they have been trapped in the three nautical miles outside Djibouti four Greek seafarers, who have been abandoned for four months at the mercy of luck. These people worked on two ships from outside of the ship of the shipowner Alexander Chaku. This company has been bankrupt so far despite our constant interventions to your Ministry and to the Ministry of Commerce, we have not been able to repatriate these people. Unfortunately, the life of these Greek seafarers has become, let me speak, a "black" between the ministries, the insurance company that was supposed to ensure their return and the shipowner, who has been extinct all this time from the whole case. A few weeks ago it was possible to return one of the five Greek seafarers on board, who had serious health problems, as well as some of the seafarers who are still trapped. At that time the Minister for Trade Maritime had declared through his account on social networking that efforts are continuing for the rest of the four. I can assure you that since then there has been absolutely no attempt, with the lives of seafarers on a daily basis getting worse. The communication with their families is based solely on the honorable efforts of Greece's Honorary Consul in Djibouti, who provides them with prepaid internet cards, while food and medicines are now dramatically absent. Because we have the feeling that efforts to repatriate seafarers have been hailed lately, and because it is unacceptable to give up on the fate of four Greek seafarers off the sea, on the occasion of today's debate, we should send a clear message to these people and their families that Greece has not left them on the boat of hope. In this context, then, I would like to ask you, Minister, how do you intend to act from now on so that people return to their families in the best possible conditions? Secondly, why, while attempts to repatriate one of the original five seafarers on the two ships, for the other four was not the same positive conclusion? Thirdly, how does the Greek state intend to force the shipowner Alexander Chaco to take responsibility for the fact that he does not care about the workers who I was intercepting? Also, how will the insurance company ‘P&I CLUB’ be controlled for the fact that it does not meet its obligations to replace the crew and to return people to their families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u35	Madam President, thank you first of all for your question. Believe me, we share the same concern with you and, of course, the concern of the relatives of these seamen who are currently trapped on two ships. But surely they have not been left at the mercy of their fate, as you said. I shall begin at the end with regard to the shipowner's responsibilities. Unfortunately, the question of responsibilities evade the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I cannot give you an answer to that, however, since the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was informed of the Greek seafarers' issue on ships "POLEMIAOS" and "ARIMPAS", concerted efforts have been undertaken with our authorities abroad and the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy in order to provide all possible assistance to Greek seafarers and to achieve their return as soon as possible. The Embassy of Greece in Addis Ababa, in close cooperation with our country's honorary consul at Djibouti in the framework of consular assistance, are in constant day-to-day communication with Greek seafarers and are informed of their state of health and living conditions. In this context, and after consultation with the insurance company, the provision of food, first-time and medical care to crew members has been ensured for as long as they have been on board. In addition, the authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have activated all available channels of communication with the Djibouti authorities in order to allow the landing and repatriation of Greek seafarers. The World Transport Federation, the diplomatic authorities of other Member States of the European Union in Djibouti, as well as the European Union delegation, have been informed in order to exert the necessary pressure on the Djibouti authorities and to allow our compatriots to repatriate again. As a result of these actions, one of the crew members has been repatriated, without that meaning that we are satisfied and will not fight until the end, so that the other crew members will be repatriated as soon as possible. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall remain in constant coordination with all stakeholders and continuous efforts shall be made to end the adventure of the four Greek seafarers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u37	Minister, it is incomprehensible for the Greek fleet fund and Mr. Tsakos in particular not to have taken any responsibility, but to have no responsibility at all. It's really tragic. We also do not know whether it is true - there are well-founded complaints - that the insurance company has not yet replaced the crew, because it does not wish to cover all the living costs of the new crew to take over the ships until they are auctioned. In other words, one bankrupt an offshore, the other does not want to pay, the state does not push our seamen, who are supposed to support Greek shipping in the seas of the world, starve literally neglected at the mercy of the sea. So the demands of families, Mr. Minister, are that people return immediately. To return back and take responsibility for those who are to blame for this more than four months of exclusion from these people at sea. We will continue to pressure so that the responsibilities behind procedures and blocks are not hidden and we want all those involved to be controlled. The country and its people are above the speculative appetites of aggressive armaments capital, and the state must immediately prove that it is not impeding such serious cases. So we expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to act quickly and tell us exactly what it will do so that the seamen return immediately, if possible tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u38	Me too, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u39	Madam President, I will return and say that as far as the responsibility of the shipowner is concerned, it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so it is important not to repeat yourself. Not only do we not act as an impediment, but believe me that this problem - which is a huge problem, not to say 'a problem' - is daily on our agenda. As regards the concerted actions of the authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would like to inform you that six private communications have been sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Djibouti so far, through which our country has asked the authorities of the latter to allow the immediate removal and repatriation of the Greek seafarers. With these private communications, our country has made it clear to the Djibouti authorities that their refusal to allow the evacuation and repatriation of the Greek seafarers is contrary to international law and in particular to the Convention for the Navy of the International Labour Organisation. Furthermore, the embassy of our country in Addis Ababa, as well as the honorary consul of Djibouti, are in daily contact with the authorities of the latter, noting the adverse impact on bilateral relations of extending this situation. In addition, both the French embassy in Djibouti and the European Union delegation there have been informed, which have shown an active interest in this matter and will help us to support our request. In fact, within the next few days, our embassy's command to Addis Ababa, Djibouti will go to Djibouti in order to coordinate our actions with the French Embassy and the European Union delegation there, and to make contacts with senior officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to resolve the problem. Taking into account - and I think that they will all agree - on the specificities of the region and on the objective difficulties in direct communication, the repatriation of one of the five Greek seafarers is a very positive development. It is also particularly good that, following the actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, visas have already been issued by the authorities of Djibouti - visas - and for the other four seafarers. This will speed up the procedures and allow for the rapid repatriation of our compatriots once they are discharged from the ship. I can assure you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a sense of responsibility closely monitors the situation and makes every effort to repatriate the other four Greek seafarers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you know that, unless the crew is replaced, there is no way they can let them go. You know that. Who will replace the crew once security refuses it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u41	I want to think that soon we'll have good news.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question under number 786/19-9-2019 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To apply Presidential Decree 45 on the professional rights of science and technology of materials, of the University of Crete and Patras", will not be discussed as a result of an exceptional obstacle of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs. The second question under number 1457/23-10-2019 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Union treatment of teachers, successful in the written tender of the 2008 CSCE”, will not be discussed due to the extraordinary impediment of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs. These two reports will be discussed next Monday. Also, it will not be discussed by a Minister with MP the first under number 351/7-1-2020 in the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion, the Radical Left coalition, Mr Socrates Vardakis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "To carry out the full implementation of the transport equivalent programme for Crete". Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-13-S1-commons.u43	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.16, the sitting on Thursday 16 January 2020 is closed at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
