ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on consular privileges and immunities'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Before giving the floor to the first rapporteur, a communication to the House. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Following the Minamata Convention on Mercury". On the basis of normal practice, we begin with the parliamentary order. My colleague from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Papanastassis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this agreement may be a formal ratification of consular privileges and immunities based on the Vienna Convention. However, it has one particular feature, and this one is that it concerns the consular facilities and immunities which Greece will provide to the United States and its nationals in Greece. What does that mean? It means that the provisions of the Vienna Convention embrace not just visitors, tourists, workers, students or diplomatic staff. She puts under her umbrella the sarah and the marsh that our people say. Those who will come to our country, in increased numbers, according to our people's criminal agreement to extend the bases, the one that the government has today tabled for ratification. The advantages of this agreement therefore include those who will in practice be called upon to implement military violence. The New Democracy Government in good cooperation with SYRIZA - and we are not misled by their alleged differences, because they are supposed to be! — in addition to the concession of land, air, and sea, it also relieves them of all responsibility for their operations. For example, a walk to Chania, Heraklion, Rhodes, Larissa, Volos, Alexandroupolis, Syros, and wherever the American ships are bound, it is enough to realize that when their crews are disembarked - which are hundreds - the locals are closed in their homes. The cultivated by American government personnel and services feel of superiority and impunity to their military personnel and their training for the blind execution of their robbery mission where land makes them unconscious. And obviously the people of these regions are not being deceived by their Marckinist terrains with fleet sailors cleaning parks. As for the possible counter-protect of reciprocity, we think that there is no need for an answer to the correspondence of the Greek presence in the United States. The Communist Party of Greece, assuming that this agreement is an extra tool to serve the policy of granting facilities for imperialist interventions in our region, is voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u3	Me too, Mr. Papastasis. Mr Hetas has the floor for his party to express reservations with the Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u4	I don't have anything to say. We agree, Mr President. We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u5	Minister, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u6	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u7	The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is therefore concluded: ‘Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on consular privileges and immunities’. The vote shall include the principle of the draft law, the first article, the nominee article and the entire bill. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may be assisted. I would remind you that only the rapporteurs and special speakers are voting, not the other colleagues, regardless of where you are and are doing well. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u8	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u9	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u10	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on consular privileges and immunities’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u12	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u13	Mr President, I have a request, a request to convey to the President of this House on my part. What about football, all this legislative initiative, can the government give us in writing a record of it? Don't lose the species. Twenty years in this Chamber has never happened before. We congratulate them on their efforts in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u14	Incidentally, the Special Secretary shall be present which shall immediately transfer it. I'm sure Mr. Tsouula heard you. Thank you for the cooperation we had in the first contract. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the second bill. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Preparation of the Protocol amending the Mutual Defense Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It shall be introduced for discussion in Parliament in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 112(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament because of the qualified majority required by Article 27(2) of the Constitution. As regards the discussion procedure, what you will hear in the Conference of Presidents has been decided unanimously: I propose that the list of speakers with four circles should be extended, including one Member from each parliamentary group, as decided, at the Conference of Presidents on 23 January. As far as speaking time is concerned, this was decided by a majority today. The rapporteurs and the special speakers have 10 minutes of speaking time and a secondary right for five minutes. The minister in charge ten minutes. Parliamentary representatives 10 minutes. The speakers appointed by the parties five minutes. Finally, the roll-call vote provided for in Article 27(2) of the Constitution and Article 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the House will be held, following a decision of the Conference of Presidents, at 19.00. We have said today to serve those who need more time than the rapporteurs and the speakers, to be able to ask me to incorporate their denominations into the time of dominance, so they will not have a second one. But it can help them better this way. So we shall begin with the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou. When we get to ten minutes, I'll ask you about dentistry or you'll be down in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting is a top institutional process, and this is because, as a national delegation, we are called upon, in accordance with the constitutional order, to ratify texts of international agreements which bring significant results both to upgrade our country's international position and to strengthen our security. And it is clear that in those sensitive issues, which concern our national issues as representatives of the Greek people, we must work beyond political ideologies and calculations. Because in foreign policy there are no party interests and calculations. Our foreign policy must be taken seriously, sobriety and rational in terms of national and collective interest. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, in foreign policy, we have historical responsibility for dealing with it with due responsibility and attention without any divisions and breaches that harm our national positions and our national unity. In this context, the two draft laws tabled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs serve the need for responsible and reasoned foreign policy, strengthening our strategic alliance with the United States of America and upgrading the partnership we have forged. I would like to focus on the content of the Protocol amending the Agreement on mutual defence cooperation between the two governments. First of all, it should be noted that the mutual defence cooperation agreement between Greece and the United States was signed in 1990 and provided for an eight-year period of validity and the possibility of its annual renewal by exchanging financial communications six months before the end of the year. According to these forecasts, the agreement has been renewed since each year and this has not changed with the new arrangement. Due to the length of time and the change in the security situation in the eastern Mediterranean, the 1990 agreement requires updates to reflect the changes that have occurred in our defence cooperation with the United States since new forms of defence cooperation had already been developed in various facilities and to meet the new needs and prospects of deepening this cooperation. That is why we had, as a government, to update this agreement on the basis of the new data. This was also done by the Greek Government by signing the amendment protocol signed between the two governments in Athens on 5 October 2019 during the visit of US Foreign Minister Mike Pompeo to the Greek capital and in the context of the second strategic dialogue between Greece and the United States of America. The amendment protocol provides for two main categories of arrangements. Firstly, many locations and facilities where there has been no defensive cooperation between the two countries or an American presence have been eradicated. These facilities relate to the seamless station of Nea Makris, the Greek air base and the key communication stations. Also, paragraphs of the agreement are deleted, which refer to facilities that do not exist, namely, to the grid of the Heraklion communication station and the hub of communication stations in the mountains of Father, Parnitha, Sister and Lefkada. Secondly, there are activities and use of facilities in which defence cooperation has been developed, particularly in the last three years. These activities were carried out on the basis of short and renewed technical arrangements of half-yearly or annual duration and since these activities are no longer carried out on a single or occasional basis it was considered appropriate to include them in the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Governments of the two countries with a view to operating in a single institutional framework. Therefore, according to the purposes of the Mutual Defence Cooperation, the United States Government is allowed to maintain and operate military and auxiliary facilities within the facilities of the Hellenic Armed Forces, namely the Larissa Air Base, the Stefanovich Air Force Base and other facilities of the Hellenic Armed Forces, where mutually agreed by the parties. Those activities and missions shall relate to operations of flight, maintenance and support of aircraft of maritime cooperation and aircraft recognition of the United States and to a limited process, landing in the ground, operations of flights, maintenance and support of air transport and logistics including supply, communication in and out-of-station, including radio and television services of the Armed Forces. In particular, the Souda Air Base will use those frequencies that will be made available by the Government of the Hellenic Republic in accordance with the standing international communication procedures and any change in those frequencies will be subject to prior consent of the Government of the Hellenic Republic. Administrative and logistical support activities provided for in the text of the Annex to the Mutual Cooperation Agreement shall also be maintained in this Protocol before its amendment to the Amending Protocol. Missions and activities that may be carried out by the United States Government in the above facilities involving visits, training, exercises, unit movements and formations, transit, support and related activities, supply of aircraft, landing and recovery of aircraft, temporary maintenance of ships and aircraft, accommodation and development of forces and materials, installation of equipment, supplies and materials, common and combined training activities, assistance activities in response to humanitarian crises and natural disasters, emergency operations and constructions to support commonly agreed activities are also provided. Note that both Parties to the Agreement or their representatives may determine each other in accordance with their respective internal procedures and other missions or activities. Apart from the use of military facilities and infrastructure in Greece by the United States, the US government is granted a priority status for the use of civilian facilities and other locations, since their use is not expected to be continuous or exclusive throughout the year. In particular, there is provision for unobstructed access and use at the port of Alexandroupolis and other locations where mutually agreed by the members of the Agreement. It is further laid down that this scheme concerns planned and exceptional requirements including reception, parking and promotion, as well as other administrative and support activities as mutually defined. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between Greece and the United States and the Validation of the Amendment Protocol entails a number of advantages for the Greek side which I would like to give you briefly. The advantages for our country are on two main lines. Firstly, in the area of our defence and security defence policy in the wider region. Secondly, in the field of the geostrategic upgrading of Greece through the emergence of Greece as a pillar of stability and development in wider areas of cooperation with our allies. As regards defence and security, this amendment agreement shields the Greek Armed Forces for better addressing the security challenges in the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean at a time when, as we all know, significant changes take place, serious threats and expansional views are expressed by the neighbour and significant challenges are emerging to safeguard our sovereign rights. Continuous readiness, modernisation and safeguarding the integrity of the Greek Armed Forces is an essential factor for our foreign policy and defence policy in our country, as it strengthens our deterrent power towards threats and protects our territorial integrity. In this sense, the training activities with the American Armed Forces in modern conditions make us stronger. A major advantage also arises from the fact that this agreement improves not only the merits of the Greek forces by strengthening our know-how in the use of modern means, but also improves the infrastructures and facilities that are upgraded and modernised through the American presence. Since the US presence on these facilities is periodic, these infrastructures will be used by the Hellenic Armed Forces, and often for more time than the US units use them, while under the agreement the administration and control of military installations, within which the US forces will be hosted, remain on the Greek side, while the United States is responsible only for the administration of their own units during the limited period of their presence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall use my dentistry as well. Equally important is that the upgrading of these infrastructures will be carried out at the expense of the US Government, without the Greek budget being charged, while no explicit provisions on costs or provisions which entail a loss of revenue other than those normally provided for in international treaties, exemptions and exemptions of taxes and duties are contained in the Protocol. The inclusion in the agreement of the facilities and infrastructures provided for in the Amendment Protocol is therefore legally paving the way for the allocation of funds by the US Congress for the execution of projects and improvements to upgrade these facilities for the benefit of the Greek side. These facilities are Marathi in the Souda region, where boats from the United States Navy have been berthed for years, the Larisa Air Base, where in recent years they have been parking unmanned aircraft, the Air Force Incubators in Stefanovicio Magnesia, where in recent years there have been periodic exercises of US Air Force forces and the port of Alexandroupolis, which has been used to transport personnel and materials from and to other allied countries, such as Bulgaria and Romania. We believe that through the implementation of these infrastructure projects, as well as the presence of American staff, as the previous experience has shown, local communities will also benefit financially. In the field of the geostrategic upgrading of the country, and here the resulting benefits are extremely important. Through the agreement and the relevant provision for access to and use of the port of Alexandroupolis, the strategic value of this installation and of the wider area is exploited and upgraded. The city's fully developed infrastructure, including port, airport, land and rail link, operates as a bypass of the Dardanelles road to Romania, Bulgaria and other countries in the Balkan region. At the same time because of its geographical location Alexandroupolis is transformed into a strategic and energy hub through the TAP pipeline, the gas pipeline of Greece - Bulgaria, as well as the gas terminal. This strengthens the national objective of our country to upgrade the role of Alexandroupolis, by achieving the energy interconnection within Greece and the interconnection of Greece with other countries in the wider region. Therefore through the agreement Greece strengthens its geostrategic value and position in the wider policy and security plans of allies, while at symbolic level the upgrading and expansion of the US military presence in Greece, beyond Souda, shows that the US government recognises Greece's strategic role in the Eastern Mediterranean. In other words, this agreement creates an additional umbrella of security above the country in a period of particular tension and threats from our neighbours, helping to develop closer ties with the United States around strategic interests mutually for both sides. However, there has been criticism from colleagues in the Opposition on the need and benefits of the signing of this Protocol of Amendment to the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement, which I have been critical of, and I would like to briefly refer to it. First of all, I would like to remind my SYRIZA colleagues that the preparation of this agreement had begun for the days of their own governance. So how can you now ask us to step up an agreement that you had seen as a government for a few months as beneficial and necessary for the country? Ladies and gentlemen, we have decided without delay to do so. And we decided because we believe that this agreement serves our national interest and ensures significant benefits for the Greek side that I have already mentioned. You criticise us, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that we did not guarantee, as a government, exchanges from the American side, such as the transfer of material, the safeguarding of used material or old weapons systems. But let me tell you that this logic of policy is inconsistent with our own understanding of the country's foreign policy and diplomacy, because the Hellenic Armed Forces do not need old-fashioned weapons, as has actually happened in the past. What the Greek Armed Forces need is continuing training in modern weapons systems, in modern techniques, in modern conditions. What they need is know-how, the continuous exercise in the use of modern media, as technological developments in the field of defence and security require. And through the exercises and activities of education that we ensure by this agreement we become stronger. That is the reason for this agreement, and that is what we are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, the common aim of both Greece and the United States is to achieve stability and development in the wider region of the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. In achieving this aim Greece is a reliable strategic partner, a friendly country with a particular geostrategic position and value. Upgrading the institutional relationship of both countries is a common intention and a strategic priority for both governments, as it involves common benefits for both sides. The ratification of the two draft laws reflects the common will of Greece and the United States to deepen their cooperation and to further commit to the security and prosperity of the wider region. And this strategic choice as members of the Greek Parliament must be consistently and responsibly served in the interests of our country and the good of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u16	The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Theodores Dritsas, has the floor. Mr. Dritsa, will you use your dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u17	I'll try to keep my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u18	All right, I'll give you ten minutes and, if necessary, I'll put you another five, just like I did to Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the seriousness of the agreement which is currently being introduced as a draft law: 'Understood the Protocol amending the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America' is not exhausted in the technical, practical, real and legal terms of this agreement. Obviously, we all understand that this is a matter of great importance. It is no coincidence that we are now called on to vote on the basis of the provisions of Article 27(2) of the Constitution, which states that 'without a law adopted by an absolute majority of the total number of Members a foreign military force is not acceptable to the Greek territory or cannot live in it or pass through it'. This agreement is also part of the original agreement of 8 July 1990, the protocol of which is proposed to amend and ratify the Greek Parliament. The Constitution provides - it does not expressly say - that such an approach and similar regulation are required, because quasi-equity is given, anyway, national sovereignty. And that gravity and that seriousness has such an agreement. It's not any transnational agreement. I will not only invoke the tradition of US bases in Greece that have given birth to too many debates, controversies and struggles. In any case, a stable demand in any case is the presence of the US bases, the Souda base and others, not to jeopardise the country's international relations with regard to Greece's constant aim of being a peaceful country with relations at many levels with all its neighbours, peace, cooperation and co-development relations, and on the other hand, not to create relations of dependence. Of course, if we look back at the '50s or '60s, the post-war and post-war period of the Cold War, in fact, these kinds of agreements were part of a framework of relations that one would call them, and relationships of indifference. But now for our country, although we remain a small country, we remain a country that is not strong, and although the role of the United States remains, with all the changes that have taken place, like other countries, as an interventionist, imperialist role, is in the past or must be in the past. Therefore, any agreement must be made as far as possible in terms of equivalence and reciprocity and the guarantee of all those guarantees which are relevant and which concern them, the sovereign rights and, above all, the interests of the country and the Greek people. And only in this light can one question the general question and opposition to military bases in our country or the escalation of military armaments in general, only in that sense can approach them and see them. In this context, and at this very juncture in the debate here in the 2020 budget plenary in December 2019, the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, ending his speech beyond the financial and budgetary issues, said this because it was a topical issue, since the visit of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the United States and the talks with President Trump. Alexis Tsipras said: 'You know - and I conclude - as a government we have fought and ensured the strategic dialogue with the United States and we have prepared the revision of the defence agreement that we are discussing in the next few months to adopt', that is to say, the one that comes to Parliament today, 'which concerns four military installations in our country. We have obviously done this not by ideological approach but by a national responsibility, recognising that our interests, the interests of the country with the United States have converged in the need for Greece to become a strong pillar of peace and stability in the region. However, if the United States, because it had already seen gray clouds, "they think that we can play this role, while at the same time our sovereign rights will be threatened in such a clear way, then Greece should not be given a given role. As we should not be seen as one.” He followed it, in my opinion, a hefty position before the Greek Parliament of the President of SYRIZA, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who in a rather or less consensual climate, in addition to what he had taken into account for the budget and for the finances, agreed on the need not to be given. But that was forgotten very quickly. The Prime Minister's visit to the United States was not confirmed. On the contrary, we have seen another reality, a reality that was defined as 'predictable', i.e. given. Here too, what we have asked for and then through the President in the debate on the Parliament's budget to which I referred in many other ways, to freeze the adoption of the agreement and to review the data for its adoption or not, this has not happened. On the contrary, a powerful weapon not of the government, of Greece, sacrificed it in the judgment of choice, how good relations are cultivated and created with our allies or with the countries with which we want to have cooperation are cultivated and built. Even the title of the Protocol speaks of mutual cooperation. And we are now coming here to see the data since the Greek Government, with Alexis Tsipras, with Foreign Minister George Katrougalos, with the Minister of Defence Vangelis Apostolakis, actually proceeded with this negotiation, which the Prime Minister referred to in what I read to you before and established a draft of understanding and agreement, without any text. We, when we left the government, had no official final text. Therefore, there were still a lot of things openly, much more than this text had not been signed, as was then signed with the signatures of the Greek Foreign Minister, Mr. Dendia, and the US Secretary of State, Mr. Pompeo. There was no text in this negotiation and we had succeeded in not accepting the request from the United States so that the Souda Convention and the other conventions would have a five-year duration. We have insisted - and it has been kept - on having an annual renewal process. Furthermore, apart from Souda, which is a multi-annual regime, that is to say, the administration of the United States, the other facilities, Stefanovicio, Larissa, the facilities at the port of Alexandroupolis, the administration insisted that the Greek authorities should maintain it and not the Americans. These are two things that were secured from our side then and remain in the final text. What changed, meanwhile, since the Greek government was and things have been the way Alexis Tsipras described them? We have important developments. We have the invasion of Turkey by violating the borders of a Member State of the United Nations, Syria, with the tolerance of both the United States and Russia, with the tolerance of both Europe and the international community.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u20	Can I get you the time of your dentistry, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u21	I'll take a few minutes from my dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u22	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u23	We've got a lot more to do. Most of all, however, we are evolving with the signing of this memorandum on the exclusive economic zone between the Libyan Government, the one that exists, and the Turkish Republic. This is a completely new given, which not only has a separate self-interest, but also forms a completely new field, because, as you have all seen it, many players are now involved in the Mediterranean, in the Middle East, in the wider region, and now things change very much as far as we know, with serious issues with insecurity and uncertainties in the previous years. We have a completely new reality. In these circumstances, the Greek Prime Minister's journey to the United States did nothing. Despite the fact that we must make demands - and we insist on this - for practical support in the event of a crisis, as things are going on and for the cancellation of the Libyan memorandum - Turkey to the post-war reality of Libya, where we wish that democratic conditions for this country to be restored for the Libyan people. Such guarantees, not just guarantees, but serious, binding assurances, which do not necessarily need to be given in public, are the minimum in order to establish the concept of reciprocity in relation to the ratification of this protocol, which we could hold 'frozen'. At the same time, the overall Greek foreign policy must enrich its processes with all these new data and developments, which require not only political parties, but also the Greek state as a whole, a new approach and an evaluation of the data. From this point of view, the fact that some military facilities are in operation in Stefanovich or in Larissa, as the Minister has said in the debate in committee, does not say anything. Because they do, but they operate under natonic umbrella, they do not fall within the framework. It would be incomprehensible if they were working, and the protocol has not yet been signed and approved. They operate under another regime, and this protocol gives another dimension and another character. As far as the Souda base is concerned, the agreement itself gives the possibility, as long as it has not been renewed, of de facto prolonging. There is no reason why the Greek Government should not freeze this agreement as a strong negotiating possibility within the framework of the need to reset the data in favour of the Greek people, in favour of the defence of the country, in favour of the interests of the Greek state, the Greek state and the Greek citizens. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In this direction, therefore, our criticism is yes, but it is clearly clean and stable, without playing any game, which has to do with political tactics. We could therefore, in these circumstances, proceed to a leap, expressing categorically our opposition to the signing of this agreement now, with a vote 'in a vote', which would not have the physical sequence of what I described before and the synonymity of the data, which we also wish to be as Acoustic Opposition and as a country responsible within it, not just realistic, but complex, pro-active, but always philanthropic in favour of the national interests, the interests of the Greek people, orientation. From this point of view, our vote, which we are voting on before the House, will be'residents' in the evening, and it is the one that states everything that I described in the most outgoing way, raises the subject, opens the debate and will be be ringing bells that both parties and the Greek Parliament and the Greek state must look at the new data and look forward to the future of our country and the wider region on very different terms from last year or year, which were also very difficult, but which now have a separate dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u24	The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Francis, for ten minutes. Mr. Francis, will you need the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u25	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u26	I've been giving you 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is an amendment to the provisions of the Annex to the mutual defence agreement, which was signed on 8 July 1990 and entered into force on 8 November of the same year. This allows the United States Government to maintain and operate military and auxiliary facilities within the facilities of the Hellenic Armed Forces. The defence of our national interests is the lung of our national survival and is based on our defence power. The defence of the country, however, is not the sole privilege of the Armed Forces. It is a multifaceted and complex process involving a number of factors and sizes of the country, as well as the actions of the state mechanism actors. These factors involved in obtaining or calculating the power of the State, therefore also of strong national defence, make up the three main pillars of national power which are: national resources, technology, human-economic and natural resources, national performances, internal and external quality of the government, quality and effectiveness of diplomacy for international cooperation and alliances, internal cohesion, state's prestige, intellectual and ideological resources. Finally, the military capacity of the Armed Forces that depends on resources, defence structure and combat capacity. The aim is for the State to achieve its external objectives in the international and regional environment concerned. In this context, Turkey continues its consistently revised expansion policy, committed to its objectives, regardless of its internal problems or the economic situation in which it is found. It calls into question part of our national sovereignty and our sovereign rights. He raises irrational claims, displays infractional behavior. We have reached the illegal underwater research and drilling attempts within the maritime areas of the Republic of Cyprus, until the recent manifestation of its aggression, and forged it as one of the regulators of the crisis in Syria and Libya. On the issue of Libya, for us, the only acceptable political solution includes the cancellation of the Turkish memorandum - Libya. With its latest moves Turkey is trying to extend its strategic interests to the Eastern Mediterranean. With the tolerance of the powerful, Turkey has been engaged in a armaments race for years, showing military power trying to lead the Greek side to negotiations under unfavourable conditions. Given the geographical and geopolitical position of our country, in particular as the challenges and instability in our space are growing steadily, we must always keep this in mind. The demand for an improvement in combat and defence and security is self-evident and is not an effective demand, but a national check, both the number and the quality of the personnel and the required weapons systems. The operational environment, where the Armed Forces will be invited to act, will be the wider air and marine environment, the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, through the execution of aeronautical operations. That is where our country's Armed Forces are required to have estimated power. In designing the Hellenic Armed Forces of the future, the new operational requirement for the development of maritime crash units, as well as the one needed to support airplanes for the execution of aeronautical operations, is crucial. It is clear that support for our country's Armed Forces in these areas is urgent and that every effort must be made in this direction. The smaller national power there is a country the more it is subject to the influence of other countries and the more vulnerable it becomes to geostrategic changes in the status quo. Diplomacy, as a high-strategic instrument, proves particularly effective in improving and maintaining the country's national strength, by ensuring cooperation and by exploiting the balance of power to create axiss through alliances. [[The President-in-Office occupies the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis.]] Our country's international relations, whatever our cooperation and alliances must be based on the equal and mutual treatment of the two cooperating parties. Our homeland is located in a geostrategic and geopolitical environment, that of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, which is considered one of the most sensitive and unstable worldwide. Our position is becoming even more difficult, given the financial situation that has been testing our society for years. In the unstable environment that has been formed, NATO has a neutral attitude, wanting to maintain balance in order not to displease Turkey. Our country is looking for alliances to curb Erdogan's plans. From the point of view of the European Union, it is France that is actually warmer than it is. Turkey is openly approaching the forces of Eurasia, namely Russia, China, Iran, Pakistan and has influenced the fundamentalist organisation of Muslim brothers. Furthermore, her people's masses have been affected by Iran's Islamic revolution. Under these circumstances, NATO's eastern border is vulnerable, which increases the strategic value of the Greek space for NATO. The West can exploit Greece's aeronautical space operationally with its huge strategic depth. The sovereignty and control of the Eastern Mediterranean energy resources by Western-friendly forces and the safeguarding of maritime hydrocarbon crossings to the West are in the highest interest of our country. It is a role that Greece can cover as NATO's country, with a western value code, in cooperation with countries in the region, such as Israel, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and others, such as Egypt and Cyprus. Greece's strategic value, therefore, in the liquid geopolitical environment is maximised, while any risks of systemic risk can be converted into geopolitical advantages. Greece must show in the alliance all the parameters that make it an equal strategic partner of the West. So in this complex and dynamic landscape we come today to vote on the "Definition of the Protocol of Amendment to the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America", prepared by the previous government without any substantial consideration and on the same pattern and path, the current government continues with the signature made. As regards its content, the Agreement includes the air base and the Souda Shipyard, the Larisa Air Base, the helicopter base in Stefanovicio, the port of Alexandroupolis, as well as other facilities of the Hellenic Armed Forces, as mutually agreed by the two or some of their representatives, in accordance with their respective internal procedures. This is a general and vague report which promises a great deal on our part to the US Government. At the same time, the Greek State has lost revenue from the operations of military and auxiliary facilities to the United States government at the reported installations of the Armed Forces. Exemption from taxes, duties, charges, other charges as well as duty-free admission of goods, supplies, equipment or personal objects of the members of the Force, of civil servants and dependent persons. At the meeting of the competent committee of Parliament we asked the Minister of Finance to cost the sum lost by the Greek State and to assess at least the minimum order of size, in euro, the annual financial loss to the public and to inform us. To date, this has not been done. As far as the amending provisions are concerned, some of them, as in paragraph 5 of Article 1, are general, vague and vague about the use by the United States Armed Forces who will be installed, deployed or parked and probably not covered by us as a country in national security matters. On the other hand, we are likely to be targeted as a country, since more official US bases are actually being created on our territory than those that existed so far and clearly with greater potential. In short, the protocol amending the agreement is cut and stitched mainly to the US measures and not to our country. Since 1990, the agreement was signed, there has been a U.S. accompanying letter on defence aid signed by the Ambassador, Mr Sotiarch. Therefore, it confirms the US Government's support for free financing foreign military sales to Greece with the amount of $345 million over a period of one year and the contribution to the modernisation of the Greek Armed Forces. Guarantees are provided for the continued effort to make surplus material available for the modernisation needs of the Armed Forces. There is talk of the provision of defensive material available from the implementation of the agreement on conventional forces in Europe. The possibility of refinancing foreign military sales loans and the intention of the US to allow the Greek Government to take advantage of the resignation of non-recurring costs related to the United States purchase of a major defence material. The present agreement is not accompanied by such a agreement. Or at least if it is accompanied, it has not appeared so far for the Greek Parliament to know. The Greek fleet needs ships with an air defence capacity of an area that would correct the current imbalance in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean. The above-mentioned need, as well as other critical weapons systems could be investigated under this Agreement. The truth is, Minister, you have given a lot to the US Government and made promises and wishes, which I hope will happen when needed. Within the context of the shaped instability in our region and at the expense of developments, Greece is an island of stability, supporting the West and its interests. But what did we claim for our country? What is the counterweight to our offer, in terms of protecting our national sovereignty against Turkish provocation, strengthening our defence capacity and financial rewards? Only the recent letter of Mr Pompeo's promises we have. Or at least that's what we know. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, this agreement is a fact that it has already been signed by the two governments. The Change Movement, conscious of the responsibility and the criticalness of our national conflict issues, will vote for it despite the above-mentioned problems. Our country must maintain its credibility, particularly in these critical and changing conditions in our region. It must not make the forefront - which, unfortunately, are doing other political forces that have governed the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u28	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, George Marinos, has the floor. Mr. Colleague, will you use the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u29	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u30	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. This afternoon, in Athens, in the Constitution and in many other cities in the country thousands of workers, young people and young people will give a decisive response. They will condemn and vote against with the JRC the infamous Greek-American agreement on military bases. The agreement prepared by the SYRIZA government with the Americans and has the courage to bring it to the parliament for ratification by the New Democracy Government. We demand that this abortion be withdrawn. And to know that it will never be legalized in the consciousness of our people and their children. The struggle will continue because the Greek-American agreement on bases is a decisive link in Greece's deep involvement in the imperialist wars and interventions. It puts the country and the people in enormous dangers. SYRIZA as a government also gave his soul to the United States, NATO and the European Union. He was clapped by US Ambassador Piatt, President Trump, with the American staff. He co-signed all NATO decisions. And today, the New Democracy continues. SYRIZA was - and is - given the imperialists, like the current government. Even the most reluctant workers can perceive SYRIZA's misleading and slandering slogan of progression and think about how anti-grassy, reactionary is the policy that restores capitalist growth, the interests of monopolies and imperialist alliances, the policy that tried to hit the anti-imperialist feelings of our people and to make American bases necessitate in Greece with - allegedly equal or mutual terms and other bad-familiar jokes. SYRIZA upgraded the Souda base, this fort of imperialism in the Mediterranean, the murderous man from which many missiles launched the American destroyers submarines, aircraft against the peoples of Iraq, Syria, Libya. He created the U.S. unit of unmanned aircraft in Larissa, helicopters in Stefanovich. He gave the United States the port of Alexandroupolis to promote naval troops. Now, he hypocritically spoke of suspending the vote on the agreement in Parliament, bearing in mind that they are already working. They have joined the naval war plans against Russia and Iran. Now, he's trying to play with "a present". The Government of New Democracy makes use of the strategic partnership with SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the other urban parties and blunts the machines. That's what we're living today. It upgrades the regime of the US bases and paves the way to plant as many death bases as the Americans want in units of the Greek army, strengthening its tie to the Natali forces that implement a nightmare design, aimed at surrounding Russia, which is even the first nuclear blow. You are about to set up nuclear weapons in Araxos and commit a crime with the dispatch of Greek military forces in warfields abroad. For it is a crime against the people that the mission of Greek military forces in Libya crossing large monopolistic and state interests and mimics a very hard battle race. It is a crime the Saudi Arabian military mission, the transfer of a Patriot missile array necessary for the country's defence. And you have it, in consultation with the Americans, in a country that kills the Yemeni people and is ready for war with Iran. What are Greek warships doing in the Straits of Ormuz, thousands of miles away from our country or the fresh “SPETSAY” in the French armada carrying out a mission to the service of French imperialism? Leave the peace mission stories you work with SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the other parties. You play crowns - letters the lives of officers and soldiers. You're forcing them to go to imperialist campaigns. The Minister of National Defence said so: we have given our blood next to the Americans and we will do so in the future. It's a big challenge. The Communist Party of Greece denounces and warns you: You assume enormous responsibilities and you will not know where to hide. Understand what we're telling you. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Greece has become an imperialist invasion and, at the same time, a magnet of attacks - retaliation. Tell the people the truth. US bases in Greece and foreign missions are on the target of Russian and Iranian missiles that will be used if it is estimated that Russia and Iran are at risk. Your policy is extremely dangerous. You are actively participating in the US, NATO and the European Union's tough competition with Russia, China and Iran to serve the interests of the bourgeoisie and its geostrategic upgrading, because it is an account, in order to grab a piece of prey, to win new investment and profitability areas, as provided for by the national line you are all facing and has nothing to do with popular interests. The government, like SYRIZA, is counting as a strategic ally Israel that runs through the neck and murders the Palestinian people. Together you celebrated for the East-Med pipeline involving Greece in a grid of very hard imperialist contradictions for the energy pipelines, to win monopolies. Our people must strongly condemn the disgraceful plan of the United States for the Palestinian people who perpetuate the Israeli occupation and warn against the imperialist arrangements that are being promoted in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean Sea, the Cyprus issue. No one can whistle indifferently. Since December 2015, there has been a unanimous decision of the Parliament to recognise the Palestinian State and that decision should be implemented immediately. Gentlemen of the government, the claims you're using are perforated. You claim that the alliance with the United States and NATO serves peace and security in our region and our country, but every time events disprove you and risks increase. These forces of Euroatlantism have committed hundreds of crimes. No one forgets their responsibilities for imposing the military dictatorship in Greece, the coup d'état in Cyprus, the Turkish invasion and occupation, the diplomatic plans on the island. What do you expect? The Americans took advantage of the alliance with the Kurds in Syria, but supported the third Turkish invasion and cleared their allies. These days you praise France and McCron, but France plays its own geostrategic games and aims to strengthen its role in the European Union's aggressive plans after Britain's departure. He created a military base in Cyprus in 2007 and strengthened it in 2017. He stepped foot in the Middle East area. The French "TOTAL" along with the American "EXXONMOBIL" and the Italian "EVI" control the energy land of the island, but the occupation continues. Turkey is trespassing sovereign rights. Its drills pierce the Cyprus Exclusive Economic Zone. You are appalling for the military exercises in the area and the role of French ships, but the helicopter "DIXMUNT" a few days ago was in common exercises with Turkish freshnesses, because this is how imperialist games are played. You have cultivated consciousness about Turkish aggression, touching your hopes on NATO, the US and the European Union. You're consciously hiding the truth. Turkish aggression is manifested between two naval allies, through the competition of the urban classes and your ally Turkey, with which you decide it at NATO tables against the people, promotes the doctrine of the "blue country". He's breaking the Greek border. He signs the unacceptable agreement with Libya, the Erdogan-Sara agreement. Turkey's challenge is based on the backs of the United States of America, who are trying to keep it at all costs in the Natali, the Western camp, to be distracted by Russia's influence. Euro-Atlantic imperialism has great interests in the neighbouring country. Germany has a strong investment base and has found a good sale of military equipment. The unacceptable European Union-Turkey agreement, which traps thousands of refugees in our country, fulfils its role in developments and the Ministry of Defence is preparing dams - traps in the Aegean Sea against the refugees by strengthening repression. The government spokesman the other day held on TV channels the announcement of the American Foreign Minister Pompeo as the plate of Moses, while the announcement insisted on the transaction with the Turkish Government to proceed with the consideration of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. New Democracy and SYRIZA have cultivated false expectations of Trump's interventions and he in the recent telephone conversation with Erdogan put the American line of co-management. He called on you to find them, to grant sovereign rights to unreservedly block American and European monopolies in the region and to grab the hydrocarbon deposits. Scenarios of compromise are being reached, and this is the case with the International Court of The Hague with a promise. And your JRC asks again: What will the promise contain? You hide it, while the Turkish side puts the grey areas, the demilitarisation of the islands and will take advantage of Mr Simiti's disgraceful agreements in Madrid and Helsinki in 1997 and 1999, with the umbrella of NATO and the European Union. At that time the Prime Minister and President of PASOK signed Turkey's vital interests in the Aegean and about bilateral issues, legalising the Turkish claims that the Imian crisis gave rise to, Mr Simitis's "thank you" to the Americans and the United States mediation. Now you and your mechanisms for forge the false dilemma: compromise, collapsing or war, to fear, manipulate the people. The policy of involvement and the exchanges you are following is a vicious cycle. It is time for the American bias in the event of a hot event and it is clear that bazaars and divisions open up new wounds, widen competition fields with the participation of more players and tougher conflicts. And we say you're co-responsible for what happens. The Communist Party of Greece and today is identified with the struggle that is developing in Athens and in dozens of other cities and will fight to cancel the Greek-American agreement on military bases, to close the Souda base and the other military bases, not to be a single Greek military officer outside the Greek border. Our people must make substantial conclusions, strengthen their struggle to overthrow this barbarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u32	We continue with the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I usually don't go out on the subject, and I won't go out today, just say a lot of years. It is the 30th of January today, of the Three Hierarchs, to hear these in here, John the Chrysostom, Kingdom the Great, Gregory the Nazis. Since we have abolished everything in that country, we must report to them today, those who have learned the lives of the three who have contributed very much to the development of letters and charity. Of course, as Greeks, Mr President, you will allow me to say that we have done exactly the opposite to what the three people have taught us. As Greeks we have become arrogant, greedy and selfish. In any case, I am moving forward and coming to today's bill. It is, Mr Treasury, that the Amendment Protocol to the Agreement on Mutual Defense Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America is to be ratified. Or else, you will allow me to put a title, 'for sale as furnished'. I'll tell you something, Mr. Teddy. Do not pass on to us that we are opposed to everything, as we heard here the dear colleague of the Communist Party of Greece. We're not against the Americans. No, no relationship. 'Cause I saw you guys grabbed your head a while ago. We're not against the Americans. We're just in favour of Greece. We don't reject everyone. We just want in a partnership to win. I'll give and get it. That is our logic, that is the basis on which we rely. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the bill you are bringing for a vote today, you are once again confirming our worst fears. I am afraid, therefore, that this law, when the present procedure is over, will prove that you are missing and unable to understand the enormous risks to which you are putting Greece in its vote. If I am not mistaken, because you are a very experienced foreign policy exercise, Mr Deeds, it means that there is a national strategy. Second, good planning. Thirdly, a coordinated and organised promotion of national interests. It still means continuous and firm support for our positions on the international political scene. All this, of course, is not saying that it is easy. I know your role is too difficult and not achieved from one moment to the next. To be realistic and to know what we're talking about. This is something that needs to be played and diplomacy, which should normally be aimed at making the positions of our country, our country and promoting these positions in the right way. But here, you will allow me to say that we are going to the unknown boat of hope. Have you wondered what you're doing with this bill? You sacrifice our national interests to the Americans. And I'm going to be specific. You give them, if not everything, almost everything, in return. That's the point. In other words, Article 1(3), which I listened to and the New Democracy colleague, allows the United States Government to use specific facilities, the Larissa Air Force Base, the Stefanovich Air Force Base. Of course, to tell the truth, and to tell you everything, we have arrived here because SYRIZA has made sure he does the dirty job the past five years. He opened the strategic dialogue with America, upgraded the Souda base, added drone bases to Larissa and helicopters to Stefanovicio, and now the New Democracy is coming to offer all this handsomely. Do you know why New Democracy does this? Because, as we have been shouting for a long time, in all the great and important matters, the state has been on its way. He's always on it. It's another proof that you're the same. You are the same in these policies. In the big and important, you are the same! You're not changing to anything and you're not different to anything. This follow-up therefore also includes the possibility of granting other facilities which were not provided for in the original agreement. In other words, you've developed it even more, give it more than that. To put in order, therefore, I have prepared a table, Mr Minister, which I will be tabling for the Minutes as soon as I read it. To see the benefits, to hear today the Greeks and Greeks what we are providing the Americans with today's ratification of an agreement that we are going to vote on. It's a huge plate. What do we give the Americans? We give: operations, maintenance of aircraft for the recognition of the United States, air transport support, visits, exercises, landing and recovery of aircraft, parking and development of forces and materials, maintenance and support of aircraft, maritime cooperation, communications, radio and television services of Armed Forces, education, movement of units and formations, support etc. It's an entire plate. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me ask you something. Is there anything left that might not have been granted? Is there anything that America is not allowed to do in our military facilities, in our military facilities? Is there a limit to our concessions? To understand, ladies and gentlemen, is there a limit? Is that diplomacy and the result of a diplomatic policy? And as if not all of this were enough, listen, for every Greek to hear today, a national domination is granted in civilian facilities. I read exactly the wording: 'Priority status is granted to the United States for unobstructed access and use of civilian facilities, to the port of Alexandroupolis and to those of the other parties'. This provision is so general, it is so abusive that, at the same time, it becomes extremely dangerous in its implementation. What right are you doing this with? Who gave you permission to grant this inviolable national sovereignty? Listen a little. We are here to serve the public interest, not to sell it, inside or out of import, at an opportunity price. I have heard, among other things, in the New Democracy argument that even these areas will be upgraded - it says - the turnover will increase in shops. I told the committee to say it here too. ‘Welcome the jumbolures. The dollar's welcome." That's what we're gonna live on. Also, the convention provides, among other things, that in the context of eases - because we provide various facilities to the United States of America - the US flag can flow along with the Greek flag, at the same level, in the same size. Fury, we're going to have more enemies. I wonder, Minister, how you baptize these moves as foreign policy and exercise diplomacy. I know what you're gonna answer. You said that in committee too. Just know that we disagree with that and you didn't convince us. I know your answer. So this is the way to make use of the unique geopolitical position of our country, Greece? Because an abadiz we have as a country, our geopolitical position, the one we need to understand at some point that gives us a huge advantage. So what is the advantage that Greece's geopolitical position gives us? The advantage of the negotiation. It's where we are. It's over. It's an advantage, it's a huge advantage to us. Greece, however, despite the fact that it is an apple of Eris, precisely for this geopolitical position, the Greek governments for some reason, which no one has understood even we cannot understand, have never been able to capitalise on this. Make it a chapter, an avadase in the negotiations. On the contrary, all governments so far, mostly, have been substantiated and fearful. I'm sorry to say that, but that's the truth. What do we get? Once again we give land and water to the Americans. And what did we get? We got a hit on the back. Where is the provision of specific military equipment? What do we get? Specifically, what military equipment do we get? Don't tell me we're taking knowledge of technology and there's times when we got guns, now we're getting other things, we need knowledge of technology. Our fleet doesn't need ships with anti-air defense capability? Why didn't we ask for weapons systems, multiple missile launchers, with unmanned aircraft? I wish I could say, at least, that we have received some guarantees, Minister, on our sovereign rights, that this Turkish claim, as the President of the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos, rightly states. Because we're not talking about Turkish provocative. The Turk doesn't cause. The Turk, unfortunately, claims. So if we were to get guarantees from the Americans that at least we would have peace with the Turks, I'd say bits would be done. Do you know what we got, Minister? We got a letter. We got Pompeo's letter. What does that letter do to us? It advises us to find and resolve our differences peacefully. Believe me, this letter of Pobeo would envy her, Mr. Dendia, and Pontius Pilate. Unfortunately, when we have foreign policy in our own country, you can see that they think we are being considered, as the Prime Minister of the country clearly said. He wants the government to hide, Mr. Dendia, and joy doesn't leave it, because given that you're ready to say it's our country. Twenty-four years were completed by the crisis in Imia. This is twenty-four years of ruthless Turkish indulgence and Turkish arrogance. At that time, it was marked by the death of three officers of the Hellenic Navy. They found tragic death three of our officers because of Turkish insolence, arrogance and provocativeness. Then, this Turkish challenge we baptized "accident", so we said it was an accident, and we were subjected to as good children as Americans' subjugations and orders, and we told them and thanked. What do we do today? We learned from our mistakes? Are we looking at the story back? Not at all. We continue to dance at the rhythms of the Americans without righting, when we must, and so we must, our stand. Is it now, Minister, that our relations, as you say, are very good with America and with the planet to ask for America to intervene so that the Greek fishermen can go back to Imia to fish for the Greek shepherds to be able to shed their sheep in the Imia? Because now we can't even walk. It's a grey belt. We lost something of ours. Since we have such good contact with the Americans, let them intervene to help us in this. Okay, one question I asked. You don't have to answer. Now hear something about the national interest in Greece - I say it clearly - and I have told the committee, Minister - it is in no way a field of political opposition. However, the fact that we have been ravaged so long and specifically the President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos has been ravaged by shouting not to go to The Hague, that we should not get to The Hague, we do not do it for opposition, we do not do it for some whim, because we are screwed and we are talking about The Hague. We do it because our national interest requires that we not go to The Hague, as you are about to go to The Hague. Unless, Mr Dendia, the "worms" you have left in your media, because we call them "guns" for those who are slowly leaving it to be understood that there is nothing wrong with losing AEZ in Kastelorizo to win AEZ in Lero and Rhodes. 'Speakers' are them. What is it? These logics are not Greek logics. The logic behind us in the Greek Solution, Mr. Minister, and Mr. President, is that no pebbles are given from the Greek island. And you better make your "guns" limit them and collect them if you can because I know it's hard. In this context, therefore, we are saying that no agreement and in no way corresponds to unconditional concessions of national sovereignty. For us - it is important that I say and close as I started - all agreements must first and foremost serve Greece and the Greeks. I don't know if it's hard to understand, but for us it's very simple. First Greece and first the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u34	Thank you. We are closing the first circle of rapporteurs and speakers with Mrs Sophia Sakova from Mera25. Do you want your dentistry, Mrs. Sacorafa?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u35	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to ratify two agreements between our country and the United States. Once again, we condemned it once again in the investigation of consular privileges and immunities and in the "Structuring of the Amendment Protocol to the Mutual Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America". Although we voted for the first, you will allow me to say a few words, very few words, Mr President, on the agreement on consular privileges and immunities. As in all the relevant agreements, it is stated in its preamble that privileges and immunities are not intended to facilitate those individuals, but to facilitate the effective functioning of the authorities of the State of dispatch in the host country. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, express reference is made to the number of beneficiaries only of the six general consular posts of both consulates that we hold in the United States of America. I would point out, however, that there is no mention of the economic and commercial affairs offices and their staff. Such offices, according to the organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, hold four of the six cities of the United States that we generally hold consulates in Washington, San Francisco, New York and Chicago. It is therefore necessary to clarify clearly on the part of the Government that the economic and commercial affairs offices in the United States, as well as their staff, will also fall within the scope of this agreement, because these offices have not always been part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and at times the stability of administrative structures is bent on the fulfilment of a government's internal balances. Ladies and gentlemen, the mutual defence cooperation agreement is neither defensive nor reciprocity. I shall now proceed with a brief assessment of the role of the United States in the region to place us on the defensive side. The United States is escalating its military strengthening in Europe. In Central and Eastern Europe, but also in the Balkans, there is a serious change in the areas of NATO influence. NATO's lines are constantly moving closer to Moscow. The United States, in its attitude, especially in recent years, has not only exacerbated the existing tensions in our region, but has also created new, equally dangerous, for stability and peace in the whole region. The United States has recognised in Turkey the right to take over Syrian territory, which was not a truce agreement, since there can only be a truce between the two barriers, Syria and Turkey. The world's power, as the United States is called, legitimised the rethinking and aggressive violent snatching of part of Syria's territory without the consent of the defender. The previous similar act in history was in 1938, ladies and gentlemen, in the Munich Agreement. Then Czechoslovakia is today's Syria and Turkish-Syrian border, Sweden. Then Germany is the current Turkey. Then England and France are the current United States of America. Historically what followed the Munich Agreement we all know about it and before the Twin Trump - Erdogan, relations between the United States of America and Turkey were not different. Turkey, as a regional superpower, places demands on the United States that the United States cannot and does not want to satisfy. The United States, however, does not want to displease Turkey with the increased geopolitical position. In this situation, the price of the US-Turkish trade is paid at Greek expense. For example: When the Turkish soldiers invaded the outcome of the United States intervention, it was not the confirmation of the Greek sovereignty, but, ladies and gentlemen, of the region's crumbling. The United States follows a dangerous policy in the Middle East according to the doctrine 'the present enemy is my last ally'. Only consistency is found in strengthening the aggression of Israel's extremes. These tendencies have unfortunately been confirmed once more by the appalling agreement of the century, as its inspirations have called it. It is an agreement written in Israel's measures for purely election reasons and personal purposes. It is an agreement dictated by the Israeli government and the Israeli American lobby. The contents of this draft annulled in practice any institutional acquis of the United Nations, despised all decisions and resolutions adopted up until now and abolished even all international law concepts. The United States has cultivated Erdogan's aggression to allow an unprecedented luxury: to talk and play privilegedly with both the United States and Russia. The United States has succeeded in making military cooperation between Turkey and Russia. Furthermore, Mr Trump's policy strengthens extreme forces in Iran. The White House acts like a troublemaker in our area. On a mandate from the President of the United States, and without approval from Congress, Iranian General Kasem Suleimani, a State official of a recognised country, by the United Nations Organization with whom the United States is not at war, was murdered. This murder destroys international law and cynically violates the concept of national sovereignty of states. This murder poses a threat to democracy itself and to international rules. It is certainly one: for anyone who knows the situation in the Middle East, for the Iranian side, the issue, ladies and gentlemen, is not over. And what does the government do? The Prime Minister, while the whole world was calling for restraint and de-escalation, welcomes first and only of all European leaders the assassination of Suleiman during his visit to Washington. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not an image of an independent state Prime Minister. I would remind you that, in order to be more American than the Americans, we have shown, in the case of the Iranian tanker 'GRACE 1', for which the Minister for Maritime Affairs has announced in all directions that there is no possibility of approaching Greek port, it cannot be tie to any place throughout the country, in violation of any principle of free navigation. The government, despite objections from military and under pressure from our defensive allies, from the United States, sends a series of anti-aircraft and anti-Baltic Patriots to Saudi Arabia and frying in the Persian Gulf. Colleagues, the Greek Army has no business there. His mission is solely to secure the country's defence and to defend our national independence and territorial integrity. But questions arise: Will they be sent along with the array and a hundred forty soldiers? Does the defence and security of Greece weaken or not, after the removal of its defensive array and naval force sent abroad? Ladies and gentlemen, the protocol we are debating is not just a long-acting American base. The military presence of the United States is being upgraded with new bases that are multiplying, several colleagues have told Marathi, Larissa, Stefanovicio, the port of Alexandroupolis and where otherwise it will be declared mutually agreed. Reciprocity is a fundamental concept in international relations. According to this principle, rights and obligations by one State are recognised in another State and subject to the recognition of equal rights and obligations by the other State. In the preamble to the agreement, however, the two countries confirm that their cooperation in the field of defence is based on the principles of mutual benefit and full respect for the sovereign equality, independence and interests of the two countries. Colleagues, let us also see, in substance, whether this agreement strengthens our defence, because in reciprocity, there will be no Greek bases on the American soil. It is said that the 1990 agreement had strengthened Greece's sense of security. This should be reflected in the economic outcome of all our markets for equipment. This means that in theory there should be a reduction in expenditure on equipment after the 1990 agreement. The reality, however, disproves this view. Between 1990 and 2018, our armaments expenditure increased from 87% to 10% of the post-government average. They would increase more without the economic crisis. So the 1990 defence agreement did not strengthen our country's sense of security. On the contrary, the sense of insecurity has increased and instead of reducing arms, our equipment has increased. The agreement against Greece was heterogeneous, such as the agreement we are discussing today, which does not provide for any predictions or guarantees against the threat of the security of Greek sovereignty. On the contrary, I'd say. While our country has facilitated the United States plans for the integration of the Western Balkans into NATO, not only has it boosted its security, but has been forced to retreat to national issues. Furthermore, Article 5 of the Agreement does not provide for the activation of the alliance to protect its member against its members. The Foreign Minister stood in committee at the benefits that the agreement has in modernising the country's Armed Forces, using American know-how. This know-how, however, concerns the material we do not have or should have to be provided by the manufacturer as a compensatory benefit for the Greek defence systems. On the other hand, is it economically and productively right to acquire know-how in material that we do not have and is it not known whether we will have it and when? The Minister himself stressed that the concept of exchanges of this agreement is not a concept of transfer of used, obsolete material. In this regard it referred to the example of the four destroyers, which were given in 1990 by the United States. He referred to the elderly destroyers who were finally immersed in order to lead to anti-parathist associations with armored armored, which many in Athens saw positive, to take as consideration. I would like to ask: is this debate being done to load, as published in the press, the old TICONDEROGA class sanctuaries that have huge operating costs and do not fit into the shipyard? I will not go into the comparisons between older TOMA BRADLEY, which we do not have with TEMPUS M113, used by our infantry, which is at least 55 years old. I want to give another example. The M13 has also been used by the Israeli army, which has reconstructed them and upgraded them on various transfer platforms for the benefit of Israel's defence industry. What prevents us from doing exactly the same? Do we commit to the opposite? Ladies and gentlemen, the United States is not prepared to offer any consideration. The Agreement on Mutual Defense Cooperation between the Governments of the Hellenic Republic and the United States, whose protocol is amended at today's meeting, does not govern any reciprocity. This agreement does not protect our borders. Our country must protect its borders, with its own forces, so that we do not live what we live today, a Greece with de facto reduced sovereign rights, whose exercise depends on what the United States tolerates. We do not have to go along with the United States as an inappropriate trustee. Strengthening our security is not guaranteed as a given allies, with blind commitment to the US and Germany, because the latter will press for retreat in order to consolidate our relations with Turkey, as these countries want. In our defence agreements, our national interests must be reflected. The protocol we're discussing has been worked out by SYRIZA. SYRIZA retreated the most extreme version of the acceptance of atlantism. The maximum part of the harmful agreement we're discussing is SYRIZA project. Don't forget. Then the New Democracy also negotiated it for a two-month period and the results are there. SYRIZA, above all, but today's government also shows that it is not in a position to promote our national interests. So we have a duty not to blind ourselves. Allies deserve us as much as we deserve them. Ladies and gentlemen, since I have remembered politically myself, I hear Kisinger referring to Greece as a very important ally and Turkey as a country that is irreplaceable to the United States. The same goes for today. What do you not understand when we are excluded from our conferences, such as the Berlin Conference? Ladies and gentlemen, we must increase our special weight. The defence of the country requires a prosperous national economy, not an economy of the most parasitic oligarchy, Greek and international, which has always been strong in Greece, but has been strengthened to the supreme extent with the monuments. No, ladies and gentlemen. We refuse to vote on this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u36	Well, we will now move on as follows: Mrs Papagasa will take the floor for ten minutes, and then she is the first five minutes of the four cycles, Mr Lambropoulos, Mr Amanatidis, Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mr Papastasis and Mr Mylonakis. At the same time, Parliamentary Representatives who will take the floor approximately 16:30, Mr. Gregoriadis at 16: 45, Mr. Pafilis around 17: 00 and Mr. Lebanese around 17: 30. You can change the time. You have a right at all times. And of course, the Minister will tell the Bureau when he wants to make his speech any time he decides. Mrs. Pappiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u37	There has never been, there is neither today - from whatever government it has passed - a Greek-American defence agreement. It doesn't exist, it doesn't. All the agreements signed between Greece and the United States were agreements on the use of the territory of Greece with military bases, with various means - they are being modernised, even with armed forces, to carry out aggressive, imperialist wars for the distribution and redistribution of prey, for the divisions of states, for the attachments of states and territories, etc., so as not to make a full analysis of what has happened since 1950. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] And Greece, with all the governments, responded and responded today. And let SYRIZA not now say that he was preparing a progressive defensive agreement with the United States. He had a proxy. Is there anything new in the New Democracy today? There is. It has certainly widened the possibility for the US forces to use all the military facilities available in Greece, in addition to the strictly defined within the agreement. On this occasion, if we are attempting to make a ranking - which is usually done - we can say that there are countries and - I will not say countries and peoples, because the peoples, while they do not take the case, have no responsibility for them - governments which are considered to be aggressive policy, because they claim land and the respective states - this is where Greece ranks - which do not claim and want peace. To go in Greece's case with Turkey. Of course, Turkey is questioning sovereign rights and borders and even with an escalation. It started from the Aegean Sea with a focus on the Imia and a few hundred islands, and now it was enlarged in Kastelorizo due to oil, EOZ etc. in order to be able to obtain that border with Egypt, Cyprus and Israel and now go to Crete. I'm not saying all things are the same. Is Greece a peaceful force as a state, a state policy, a government policy? There's no war that hasn't taken part! It's true he doesn't claim. He doesn't claim land. However, this does not make it less dangerous for its own people and for the people of the region. And the Greek bourgeoisie - to speak with our own terms - and the Greek governments have painted their hands with blood next to their allies, such as the United States, etc. And so I truly consider it a challenge to speak of a defensive agreement and in exchanges for Greece. What is Greece asking for? One is aid to any Turkish threat and the second is to take part in the distribution of prey. That's what he's asking. And, if you want, we ask the people a question. Even if you are supposed to guarantee for some time - you are not going to guarantee it, but let us say it - for five to ten years, is that peace? When, due to the policy of governments and its allies, the country participates in a bloodbath at the expense of other peoples, are you feeling well? There is no imperialist intervention that Greece did not support and not just politically. Could the war be done in Iraq without Souda? Could the Yugoslavian war be done without crossing the naval troops? And where has Greece not been? And what trade are we talking about? To offer military, imperialist services and to get some trade for the country's defense. You know very well - and I am sure all parties know that and I will say it again - that we are not smarter. We're just starting from another starting point. Greek-Turkish differences are used by the European Union, mainly by the United States of America, but also by other states as an element of extortion. They're blackmailing both Turkey and Greece. The time can come when they talk more positively about Greece if they want to scare Turkey and pull it with them. Because that is the main point, having Turkey together for the well-known reasons you have invoked. It is evidence of extortion that Souda, Stefanovicio, Alexandroupolis, Araxos will be used against Turkey if Turkey takes a more increased aggressive step against Greece. Don't be fooled. You know that very well. Because both government ministers and MPs, and the former Minister of National Defence on SYRIZA said that at the critical moment we will be on our own. Honestly, the last two years also come true through mouths and Ministers, even university professors - who teach International Law - and for The Hague. They come true because - I am talking about elected to New Democracy - they cannot come to a full extent with what they read about international law or what they actually follow, regardless of whether they remain in the general strategy that is being followed. We'll be - he says - on our own! That's a double point. It is used as follows: On the one hand, the dilemma 'constitution or war' comes in, to go to the conspiracy. On the other hand, one truth has to be said in order to prepare the people in such a direction. And I will say that the greatest preparation of today's people - with the exception of some voices in favour of the war - is that Greece should accept a war against neighbouring peoples and accept compromises relating to sovereign rights, with borders, etc. And check it out. As long as there is a nationalist organization - and there will also be in the context of capitalism and in the context of the socialist states that will be formed within this century, and we are doing so, if you want, to live in a period where there should be no border and there will be no war, there will be no need for frontiers - there is a question for the Communist Party of Greece and for the defence of borders and for the defence of sovereign rights, regardless of the fact that it is the case that the bourgeoisie and its military are doing so. We are, of course, saying that the people have the opportunity to draw political conclusions and to be vigilant and ready to take the case in their hands if we are at this moment. That is - if you want - the main issue. Look at that. It is the case - and my partner, George Marino - of Palestine. Cyprus and Palestine are the two issues left by the United Nations to be positive at the time when both the Socialist system and the Security Council existed the Soviet Union. There was a better correlation than the dramatically negative that exists today. And we have two decisions. Where have these been applied? And are we waiting to help Greece and support the allies in Greece towards Turkey? It's the Palestinian and the Cypriot. And this plan comes, which must raise up all the peoples of the region and not just the Palestinians, because the bell is belling for many states. Syria is a single state? Libya is a single state? You run every day all the parties apart from us and you expect to see a phrase of routine in the United States, a phrase of intent to interpret that the United States is throwing us more upright than in Turkey. Now we've found a savior to McCron. Who is responsible for the situation in Libya? France and Italy. When did they get over the overthrow of Gaddafi, with which we were never, nor good day, said, nor did we have anything to do with the regime, but also with Libyan political forces? When Gaddafi had the dream of becoming a sovereign leader of the entire African continent, in contrast to the South African Union, and when he started agreements with the Chinese to give them the oil. Then France and Italy came in and overthrowded Gaddafi. Germany at the time played a role, not with military forces - Germany has a fleet problem in the Mediterranean, has no easy exit to the Mediterranean - when it started agreements with the North African states. And if ten years ago or 15 years ago we were talking about the problems in the Aegean Sea, now we are talking about the problems that will affect the Greek people in a much wider region, the Aegean, the Southeast Mediterranean, the Middle East, the Libyan Sea, etc. For of course, it was also said by my colleague, George Marino, here are alliances that are being ordered and reassigned. If the world power of capitalist, imperialist forces, such as the United States, the European Union, China and others, who are struggling with regional allies, cannot solve the issues as they solve them by now, and you have a more general explosion in Greece will not become an objective? Will Turkey be the only problem? It'll be done and done. You say 'we are preparing for war to impose peace'. No, prepare to serve the Imperialist war case today and tomorrow. This is the preparation that is being made. There's no defensive deal. And for us, and to end, are NATO and the European Union talking about defence? But the attacks are reported. The European Union has clearly said 'we are intensifying militarisation' and for the first time officially, because it has always been in the background, it involves dealing with popular uprisings in the field of Europe. You are not only fighting for the war, but you are struggling to prevent the real, the real awakening of the peoples to take over the question of sovereign rights, borders, and above all to serve the wealth that exists in the region. We are voting against it is perfectly understandable. The 'no' which can be heard by other parties in the House is in the logic of the exchanges. SYRIZA's "present" is like the tear of the memorials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u38	Thank you. Mr. Lambropoulos has the floor. I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we be within five minutes due to the procedure, which must be completed at a certain time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u39	The previous ones haven't kept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u40	We're starting with you, Mr. Lambropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u41	With little tolerance, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Protocol amending the Mutual Defense Cooperation Agreement between Greece and the United States of America, which we are debating today and are invited to vote on, was signed in Athens in October 2019. It was written almost whole by the previous government of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. We remember Mr. Kammenos, a partner for four and a half years of SYRIZA, calling on the Americans to do bases all over Greece where they want to. Now they're not voting for protocol. They remembered their old self, became anti-American again. Greece has been involved in NATO since 1952 and is a stable US ally. We participate in the same alliance consistently in our obligations. Today our relations with the United States are at the best event that has been confirmed by the recent visit to Washington by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Those who rushed to meditate and cheap to politicize when the Prime Minister's meeting in the White House had not yet been completed had been interrupted. Our provision of military facilities to the United States is mutually beneficial to our security, our armed forces, the economy and not just. Greece and the United States believe in the same principles and values, in the same culture, in democracy, in human rights. Greece and the United States were together in all struggles for freedom, independence, in all major crises. Greece in both world wars has been drafted with the forces of freedom. We fought hard, gave a lot of blood and in World War II we gave the allies the first victories against the axis of evil, fascism and Nazism. We were post-war, and we were firmly committed to the Western world. Today we are facing threats and doubts of our national rights we demand support and assistance from our allies. It is not meant to be a member of NATO, to be threatened by a member country of NATO, Turkey, and the Secretary of the alliance is washing his hands. Where was Turkey in the two world wars? When we were sheding our blood together with the Turkish allies, whether it was across the street, World War I, or they remained neutral, World War II. When imperialist Turkey is now invading Syria, Iraq, goes to Libya, violates Cyprus' sovereign rights, continues occupation of Cyprus, threatens Greece with weapons provided by our allies and friends, it is not fair and it is right for President Trump to equate the perpetrator with the victims and say "find the" after the positive letters and statements of support of the US Secretary of State and US Ambassador to Athens. If it is possible at the same time that imperialist Turkey threatens Europe to drown it with the immigrants, a large European partner and our ally, to care for it. Turkey needs all of them to support its economy and operate its weapons systems. The Greek Government and all Greeks united are striving for peace, but we are determined to defend our national rights in every way. The great diplomatic marathon that the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs have begun to put all our allies before their responsibilities for safeguarding peace in our region and we are convinced that this will be the case. The Greek and American people with a link between the hundreds of thousands of Greek Americans who find themselves, live and progress in the United States, will continue faithful in our history to serve together and with passion, the same culture. I invite you to vote on this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Lambropoulos for the time. We call on Mr Amanatidis to continue in the same context.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u43	It is the first time you have been presided over so I will ask for your tolerance, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, welcome from Zagreb. Finally, I would say that it is your policy that we should see enlargement more seriously and not get results as we had the vetoes in relation to the countries of the Western Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen, in an environment of geopolitical instability and conflict and in a particularly unfavourable environment, what have we done? We have implemented an external multi-dimensional active policy, and we have managed not only to maintain, but to enhance the role of the country as a pillar of stability in the wider region. I would like to remind you of Alexis Tsipras' visits to countries, to foreign leaders' visits, to our country of emblems, to our participation in the development of the European Union's foreign policy at the conference of leaders of the countries of the European Union of the South, which has been left with the tripartite and quadripartite cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean and of course in the Western Balkans. And of course, these tripartite and quadripartite alliances have become even with countries which have opposite interests, such as Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Jordan. The practice of and mild politics through the cooperation of ancient cultures, as well as the conferences on conflicts and religious pluralism, which must exist in the countries of the Middle East. Of course, the Prespecies Agreement is top of the agenda. Why am I saying this? Because agreements, ladies and gentlemen, must be considered on the basis of data at this point in time and in this environment. Election, what did New Democracy do? He has worked on critical issues and indeed on critical foreign policy issues, migration and, of course, the elimination of our national position in Macedonian. May I also remind you of the unexplained links between Macedonian and evaluation, or with pensions and migration? He had a reason for tearing and destructive, especially when Alexis Tsipras went abroad to defend national interests. What did New Democracy do after it became a government? May I remind you of the fine lines of Mr Petsa, the Government representative and our attitude to Turkey in relation to immigration? Depression, inertia, speech and embarrassment. I would remind Mr Mitsotakis' statements to the UN where he met Erdogan and similar statements after his meeting with NATO, a policy without compass and without clear messages. This attitude, which we pointed out, succeeded in another attitude as much worse, predictability and that it is a given one, but also a overthrow of a many-year foreign policy. I remind you of Mr. Mitsotakis' differences in relation to the murder of General Suleimani. As a result, this was the non-participation of our country in the Berlin process, absent. The final state was completely unrelenting to deal with the big issues. What did we ask the government to do with a policy of equal distance, which several states observe? When you keep an equal distance from the one who violates international law and threatens your sovereign interests, then it's not in your interest. We have asked for this agreement to be frozen. You're asking us what's changed. They changed the data, changed Turkey's violating, upgraded behaviour in the wider environment. We were the ones who consistently promoted the upgrading of bilateral defence and diplomatic cooperation. The talks began on our term of office. However, this was based on the convergence of interests and on such initiatives that at each step we had a mutual benefit for the interests of the two countries: the Tsipras visit to Washington in 2018-2019, the establishment of strategic dialogue, the EastMed pipeline, the introduction of three plus one, the EastMed Act, the upgrading of F-16 on privileged terms. Mr Mitsotakis' visit to the United States did not provide the clear messages and the essential assurances for Greece's support in the event of a crisis and they certainly do not justify the study, Minister, with which you bring this agreement, while Turkey is escalating its threats. They needed more serious negotiations in this direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We started this agreement. However, we disagree vertically, Minister, in what you have done, namely consider predictable and given. It is a logic that you are promoting it without at the same time claiming serious assurances of practical support in the event of a crisis or on the next day for Libya, the cancellation of all the memoranda, which are both irresponsible and illegal. That is why we shall vote 'the present'. We, ladies and gentlemen, will continue a responsible and patriotic policy towards defending our country's national interests and sovereign rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u44	Thank you. Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very serious issue today. Our homeland has been going through one of the most critical periods of its history and especially the history of the last sixty years. Every day's air breaches, the violations of the Cyprus EEZ, the agreement between Turkey and Libya create an explosive situation in the Aegean Sea and the south-eastern Mediterranean region. Mr Erdogan's aggressive, revisionative and provocative rhetoric maintains tension and fuels concern for the future. It is therefore our duty to immediately take all necessary and effective measures in both the diplomatic and defence sectors. We must formulate a national strategy that will allow international initiatives, a grid of alliances that will create an effective shield for the country and a discouraged element for any artisanal persecution. We must respond to critical choices, such as, for example, recourse to The Hague, with exclusive issues and with the continental shelves and the EEZ. We need to take all the measures to fortify our country. We must strengthen Greece's international speech and role. Ladies and gentlemen, under the present circumstances, the eastern borders of NATO are vulnerable, which greatly increases the strategic value of the Greek space for NATO. The sovereignty and control of the Eastern Mediterranean energy resources by Western-friendly forces, while at the same time ensuring sea hydrocarbon crossings for their uninterrupted flow to the West, is in its highest interest. So the strategic value and importance of Greece in this liquid geopolitical environment is maximized, while any risks of systemic risk can be converted into real geopolitical advantages. So that, ladies and gentlemen, we must make use of this, that is what we have to show. Greece must show in the alliance all those parameters which make it an equal partner with the West. In this cloudy, changing, the restless, if you want, landscape is coming today to vote for a defensive agreement between the US and Greece which - to say things by their name - has been prepared by the previous government and has already been signed by today's post-base and sector. That's the reality. The Change Movement comes with a sense of responsibility to vote for this agreement that has already been signed by the two governments, despite any problems, some of which I have already mentioned. A serious state must maintain its credibility and its long-term strategic alliances, especially in such circumstances as the present ones. Honestly, I do not understand - and I cannot say this - that in these circumstances and indeed while the one who was preparing this agreement exactly is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, how, therefore, today, SYRIZA with arguments, which I admit nobody can understand, is voting'residents' in this agreement. His right, we live in democracy. But we are all judged and judged by the people on the basis of their honesty and credibility. Ladies and gentlemen, voting on this agreement does not mean that we have no serious objections and questions, Minister. This very serious question arises: Has the amount lost by the Greek State been costed? We asked the Minister of Economy to assess at least the minimum euro size order of the annual economic loss to the public and to inform us. The General Accounting Office notes that it detects financial losses. The agreement appears to be unilateral, it seems to be heterogeneous without the necessary and necessary compensatory measures. We, Minister, are we claiming something for our country? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Did we even get any guarantees on our sovereign rights to end the Turkish provocation that we experience every day? We have received some compensatory benefits even with a few minor economic reductions to strengthen our defence industry, which you know is a matter that hurts and hurts a lot? Did we achieve any economic benefits from the rental of the reported bases? On the contrary, we also have financial losses in the budget, according to the report by the State Accounting Office, which the annual financial loss is not mentioned. I think, ladies and gentlemen, I think, Minister, that these are perfectly reasonable questions. We therefore believe that answers and explanations are absolutely necessary on your part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u46	Thank you. The new Lebanese Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I should first like to ask our colleague, Mr Tryphoon Alexiades, for permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u48	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u49	I distinguish him as a human, not as a fellow Member - as colleagues, we are all on the same boat - for his courage and also from the experience I have so far as a political adversary for his documented opinion and for his efforts towards mild dialogue between us. So, good recovery and a speedy return to his duties in the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today's ratification is an excellent opportunity to have a serious and structured debate on the more general way of conducting foreign policy. We are a small country, but it has a very important geographical and geopolitical position. We are the natural border between the West and the East and the main stable and reliable interlocutor between the European Union and the United States in the wider region. We are therefore building up appropriate and stable alliances, in view of precisely the national interest and with a broad perspective, because relations between states are forged over time and not by chance. So our alliance with the United States is an alliance deep, long and time-tested. Our prolongation in contrast to all the other forces of the Greek Parliament has always been in favour of this strategic alliance. We did not hesitate, however, when the circumstances required it in the past to take brave decisions, such as leaving NATO's military arm. At the same time, however, our unscrupulous position in the alliance of the Western world does not mean that we are binding Greece's hands on relations with the other countries. It was Constantine Mitsotakis who upgraded diplomatic relations, recognizing Israel and Antonis Samaras who deepened strategic dialogue. Mr Tsipras rightly helped deepen relations with both Israel and the Arab world. It was Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis who opened the communication and dialogue paths with Russia and China, who launched an essential strategic dialogue with these countries and a climax of this policy was the opening up of the port in Piraeus by the Chinese, who are now watching, seeing and approving all the positive results. Nowadays, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Nikos Dendias are the head of foreign policy, which seek through the presence of the United States at the port of Alexandroupolis and our general policy of transforming northern Greece as an energy hub, to shield our defence policy. Because the foundations of successful diplomacy are realism and correct alliances, the foundation of which is credibility. Today's agreement, ladies and gentlemen, in our view, represents a success of the Greek diplomacy which has operated together, both from the previous government and from the present one. The presence of American troops in our country is an incomparable advantage in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean. We are living - we are all aware - at a time of major changes and instability. Traditional forces are encircling while new ones emerge. The ending Brexit hurts the European Union, and we are all aware of the discussions that are taking place on NATO's future. Our neighbourhood, therefore, is in full turbulence with Turkey to implement a direct review policy, even challenging conditions - pillars of peace in the region, such as the one in Losan. So against Turkish provocativeness Greece responds with its commitment to international law and legality. As the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has declared, however, we will all defend our territorial integrity in any case where necessary. Our national sovereignty and national interest are unnegotiable and this is the red line of all our political forces. The Turkish challenge, however, is not a bilateral issue between us and our neighbours. It is a European issue and as such we want and must be dealt with. The work on the refugee issue by Turkey and the violation of the agreement with the European Union pave the way for the implementation of wider alliances, bilateral or multilateral, in Europe and the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. A first resounding today was given by President McCrone, who fully co-signed Greece's position that the resolution of immigration is going through European solidarity and co-responsibility. The government's multi-dimensional foreign policy already records major diplomatic successes. The Department of Foreign Affairs of the United States, Mr. Pombeo himself and President Trump have taken clear positions in favour of Greek positions and interests. You have all read Mr Pompeo's letter to the Prime Minister. This convention - both of which I mean - which you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, today, do not vote on, the United States Secretary of State calls it a key point in the enhanced security agreement between Greece and the United States. As diplomacy requires, however, we do not put all our eggs in the same basket. The result of this multi-dimensional foreign policy by the government is the convictions of almost all the West of the illegal acts of Turkey and Libya. We also saw yesterday all French President Macron condemning Turkey's challenges unequivocally and demonstrating France's full support. We have all seen the French helicopter that was berthed in Piraeus and will take part in the exercise "Mess Alexander 2020". The European Union's leadership through Joseph Borrell, a representative of the European Union for foreign policy, described this agreement as illegal and improper. The legal service of the German Parliament has come precisely to the same conclusion. At the same time, it has been made clear to everyone that no political solution for Libya will be accepted without the simultaneous cancellation of the illegal Libyan and Turkish cooperation memorandum. But, apart from the dogmatic opposition of the Communist Party and the meaningless small magnification of the populist right - the Socialist Opposition to turn the government away from the fact that it brings this defensive agreement before Parliament. According to the Chief of Officerial Representation and also with speakers in committee and today, the government should delay ratification of the convention until it has made commitments from the US Government to defend Greece's rights in the South-East Mediterranean. It is, you will allow me to say, as a matter of urgency - not to say politically naive - that postponing the ratification of such an agreement could act as a negotiating instrument for Greece to the United States for the Greek-Turkish. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that it was your government that recognised the national importance of this agreement and successfully negotiated it with the United States. If that's not unreliability and political probation, then what is it? Of course, we are not surprised, because you were the ones who had signed the contracts for the extraction of hydrocarbons, but when that government brought them to ratification, with funny excuses, you were fortified behind 'partners'. But you should be aware, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the 'present' is essentially equal to 'abs'. And history will rank you as abstaining from the strategic deepening of relations with the United States. But the irrationality to refuse to vote on what you have been negotiating, to tell us to delay ratification of the convention is also contrary to the democratic principle. This agreement, in fact, applies. There is an increased military presence in the United States, forces stationed on it. Who, then, allows the government to do this? Who allows an agreement to be implemented, which is basically that agreement that allows foreign troops to be present in the country without the approval of the National Representation, which, according to Article 27 of the Constitution, should also be ratified by law? The foreign policy field is not being offered for a micro-policy, especially for an agreement that strengthens our country's defence forces, allowing it to exploit American know-how and maintains command over bases. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. At the same time, the costs of altering the bases will bear, as you have already heard the Minister, entirely the American side. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again that we all know in this Chamber that whenever we acted in unity and unity, even under adverse conditions, we triumphed. Whenever we're split, we're lost. With these thoughts, therefore, we call on you to revise and vote in reasonable and realistic terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u50	Mr. Papanastassis Nikolaos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Levane, as far as the dogmatic position of the Communist Party of Greece is concerned, it is well known that a dogmatic position is the position which is not documented, which is not proved. If this view is taken of the positions of the Communist Party, you should take note of it, because it is a completely wrong view. Usually, our opponents' positions should learn from the right direction and the right way. Now, with regard to today's position, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement being discussed for our country, our peoples and the peoples of the region is absolutely dangerous and we demand that it be withdrawn immediately. Today the government successfully completes the dirty work launched by SYRIZA. He started the strategic dialogue with the USA, upgraded the Souda base, triggered the bases of unmanned airplanes in Larissa, transport and combat helicopters in Stefanovicio, as well as the port of Alexandroupolis. And because many words are poverty, let us just say it: it has successfully accomplished its mission. Give New Democracy the door open and the dogs tied up. Today - and this must be understood - the government grants land, air and sea to our country. Days ago, Minister Dendias in the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs reiterated about what the Prime Minister in Washington said on his recent journey, namely that this agreement ensures peace, security and stability in the region. Ever since, indeed, Minister, the aggressive collection of information with the UAVs, with the MQ-4Cs, the drones as they have been said, gather information on US and NATO robbery plans, and this information helps to ensure peace, security and stability in our region? Since when, then, is the action of American Stefan helicopters with a mission to strengthen the naval forces, of the Russians, who are on the finger in the trigger, a peaceful act? Is it an act of peace and the supply of tomachok missiles to the US warships in Souda to rebuild Syria or Libya or Iran? Is portrayalism an act of peace on the same basis of US submarines, nuclear and airplanes, on their way to the missions of death and the uprooting of millions of people? Do you want to present this country as an island of peace and security? You mislead the people, Minister. And such are your contractual commitments - and this is abrupt to this agreement - which at the time of the peak of Turkish aggression you are sending a fresh accompanying to the French airplane for the Arab Sea. You are also sending a cluster of Patriot anti-missiles, accompanied by dozens of Greeks in Saudi Arabia, and finally, you are willing to move apparently selected parts of the Armed Forces to Libya. The question is this: Do what? You know the answer well and you hide it. They will be extended to those who are already there, Libyan and Turkish, and who knows where else's troops with their very likely risk of being involved in warfare. The consequences of your policy and commitments relate to another part of Greek society. She's our militant youth, she's the executives of the Armed Forces. The enthusiasts of this signature may explain to all of them why they must kill or even kill, defending Aramco's refineries in Riyadh or the oil interests of Italy, France, the United States, in Libya's deserts. Of course, you have guns of persuasive people in your patron. You will bear them thousands of euros and they will be "blooded" these euros. The Communist Party of Greece, and from this step, is addressed to the members of the Armed Forces, our soldiers. We invite them to feel the consequences of these involvements. We call on everyone to take a stand against all this, to ask themselves, to take their personal responsibility. It is time for a universal refusal to take part in these missions. We invite them not to be redeemed. In these professedly difficult choices, the Communist Party of Greece promises them that they will not be alone. Proof of the hundreds of mass operators, who today demand the cancellation of the Greek-American agreement. In the near future, thousands of people will be opposed to this ostensible text. It will be a gathering that will testify to the promise of a resurrected struggle, in order to permanently close the Souda base, to expose all the American naval bases from our country, to be released from NATO and the European Union, to stop the mission of Greek Armed Forces to imperialistic missions abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The floor will now be taken by Mr. Antonios Mylonakis from the Greek Solution. The Minister of National Defence will follow and immediately after the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Villardos. Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased to be a member of the Greek Parliamentary Group, a party which, as I have said before, entered Parliament to offer home and Greek society. What has been happening over the last few days is the end of the absurd. You failed everything, gentlemen of the government. Yesterday you just got the impossible. With completely wrong tactics you managed to turn against you the entire Greek people, because the fans of Olympiacos and PAOK are almost two thirds of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u54	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u55	Well, Mr. Lazarides. Go upstairs and then I'll see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u56	I was in Kavala. Everything was fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u57	All right, all right. Our President, Mr. Velopoulos, told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u58	There is freedom throughout Greece, I am informed by the Members and by the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u59	We in the logic that we are talking about and decide to squash you, but you cannot get involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u60	They're unrepentant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u61	They're unrepentant! We in all the big issues have our own view and offer at home and to the Greek people. We also took a very clear position in the Presidency of the Republic in the electoral law, but we also took a clear position yesterday and anyone who understands it understands our offer. We're coming to see today. Are we looking, Ministers, for prostates? We're looking for a pimp, and I didn't get it? What is this deal that SYRIZA brought and you validate? Unless you think you're dealing with people who don't read, do not study, understand, don't think. Is it possible to bring a letonium agreement to the Greek Parliament? We gave it all away. "Like your home," we told the United States. You know very well - and indeed all the Greek people understand it - that the Greek Solution is not against the alliances. The Greek solution wants multiple alliances. He wants alliances that respond to reality. He wants alliances, Mr. Ministers, which enable the Greek people to give and take. We've given everything. We're out! What did we get? Since I do not have much time, I want to tell you quickly to understand what it means to give the foundations - whether it is called Stefanovichio, whether it is called Larissa, Souda or the port of Alexandroupolis - and other parts of the Greek area that will come out, it says, in future, by common ministerial decisions. What are these points? Now listen to the absurd. Minister, Mr Panayotopoulos, who knows how much I appreciate you - go talk to the military commanders. You have a military commander in Stefanovich and you suddenly tell this man that he will not be called "military commander", he will be called "military representative". You've got it in the deal. Do you know what it means to take out the general from a military commander and tell him "you're a representative?" On what duty? He'll oversee, he says, if the deal's up. What deal? So in a camp that we host ten helicopters and five others, should we also grant the administration? I don't understand that thing. American with the Greek flag, he says, will be at the same height. Why? For what? They're guests. Where are we going with this? No, we're not against the Americans, but this deal we made, I'm telling you to take it back from now. You're told by a man who's been dedicating his whole life to flying and defending his country. No, no! That's incredible, Minister. You're Minister of National Defence. Mr. Dendias is gone. He can't hear me. These things are unbelievable. Did you talk to commanders? See what's going on. We gave it all up, and what do we get? Absolutely zero! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u62	Thank you to Mr Mylonakis for keeping time. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to take the floor, given that the MDCA, the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement, in the context of the development of Greece's strategic relationship with the United States of America, has mainly defensive content and I understand that this content is also the subject of intense parliamentary debate here. I have heard most of the positions of both rapporteurs and speakers. Unfortunately, I dare say, in fact, that you have not caught the basic spirit, none of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u64	We're not Einstein...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u65	You don't have to be Einstein to catch it. That's the point, Mr. Velopole, you don't have to be Einstein to catch the spirit. Listen to me for a minute to understand. So the spirit is not an Oriental bazaar of the type "so much I have given, so I have taken, I will take an opportunity to get these or those weapon systems". That's not the spirit. The spirit is condensed in two words: a society of interests. So I described it the first time I was placed in public. Two parties, i.e. the parties, build from the base, build infrastructure mainly, build together. They build up a common interest, where, when it develops for one side, it automatically develops for the other, when it is affected for one side, it is automatically affected for the other, with what this implies for the national interest. When you build a society of interest, with the remaining one, I would say our superpower and ally, in the NATO camps and in the Western world, where the United States recognizes us as a country of peak, a country that is promoted at the border of the Western world, so when we build infrastructure together, we have every interest in the development of these infrastructures in the end - in terms of balance - and of our own national interest. The equipment, you know, follows for all the countries the geopolitical juncture in times of instability, like the present one we live in. It is reasonable that countries involved in areas of relative instability want to develop their equipment, increase their defensive costs to ensure their sovereign rights, through the enhanced deterrent effect of these forces. The level of defensive expenditure is nothing specific or given or standard. It also increases in this short unstable geopolitical period, especially for our wider region, it is logical that we should also be concerned as the political leadership of the country and especially of the Armed Forces, the upgrading of our armaments and defence spending. That's all. So the geopolitical juncture is important at this time, since due to Turkey's well-known behaviour, the United States of America now realises that Greece is a first-line, stable and reliable ally and partner, a pillar of stability in the Eastern Mediterranean, and this increases our strategic weight. This leads the United States of America to step up their presence by deciding, in our region, after a period of relative decline and at a time when too many countries, other countries, not only are seeking the presence of American forces on their territory for security reasons, but they are also willing even to pay, to finance their installation considerably. The text of the mutual defence cooperation agreement was, of course, drawn up at another time in the late 1990s when the US forces reduced their presence in Greece. This had only been restricted to the Souda area. However, given the new geopolitical developments in the region, periodic development in strategic facilities in our country parts of the American Armed Forces was considered useful. The United States already had such presence and activity in installations of Stefanovicio and Larissa, as well as with the partial use of the port of Alexandroupolis. However, this presence, even if it is not of a lasting nature - which does not have - requires the creation of infrastructure in our own facilities. So, after thirty years, MDCA had some interest in updating and modernising it in order to adapt to the new data and the requirements of defence cooperation and, at the same time, - and that is important - deletion of facilities no longer in existence for years. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Therefore, ratification of this agreement by the ratification of an annex we are voting on today has a twofold objective: on the one hand, the formal deletion of non-functional installations, on the other hand, the addition of facilities where there was a presence, but not those which were included in the agreement and in its annex, and on the other hand, the common interests of the two countries. To this end, the letter from the Secretary of State of State of the United States, Mr Pompeo, to the Greek Prime Minister, also gives rise. I would remind you that in October he came to Greece, here in Athens and signed this agreement at Foreign Ministers level. I'm gonna need about a minute and a half more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u66	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u67	I think that these explanations should be given to understand the House as well. So the text you are calling on, ladies and gentlemen, to vote was the subject of successful negotiations with the American side, which conducted a joint group of the Foreign and National Defence Ministries. It is paradoxical that these negotiations began and were built in the right direction by the previous government, but which is coming today and denies the work and the fruits of its efforts and does not vote. It includes, as I said to you, the following modifications: First, the removal of sites that are not used from a long time, such as the base of Nea Macris and the Greek, the location of Yorks Heraklion Crete and others. Second, it includes additions. Addition of areas and facilities of the Armed Forces of common interest, in which, as already done, parts of the American Armed Forces, in particular in Larissa, the unit from which unmanned air vehicles, UAV, Stefanovico, the joint training unit for helicopter crews, in the area of Marathi of the Souda naval base, as well as the partial concession of the use of infrastructure and in particular the port of Alexandroupolis, may be installed. Addition - update of activities that can be carried out in these facilities, based on modern requirements. Adding mechanisms for changing the number of facilities and activities, but always provided that it is agreed on both sides, there will be no interpretation of the will of one side on the other and it will, of course, be cancelled in accordance with the rules and internal legislation of the two countries. Finally, the addition of an implementing instrument for future changes to the Annex. For the United States, this is the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. For our part, we believe that this agreement enhances our country's strategic importance to US planning and is in some way an opportunity to strengthen our deterrence in the following ways: first, with the enhanced presence of the US forces and the requirements in infrastructure, as I said, that will take place in selected and definite locations, of course in agreement with the Greek Armed Forces. I would remind you that for the Stefanovich base for helicopter crew training, the Greek side suggests to the US that the specific points of the base will be carried out where work will be carried out on expanding the facilities with US funding. Secondly - and related - it is now possible to make larger US investments available to create infrastructure and other installations in the Armed Forces, in addition to the Souda American Facility. I'm always talking about Larissa, Stefanovich, what's provided for in MDCA. These will be used jointly by the Armed Forces of the two countries. The term referred to in the Agreement shall be ‘join use’. A characteristic example, as you all know - we have said before - is the lifting of funds from the US dredging 'OLGA' which has remained submerged for years in the port of Alexandroupolis, with the result that the port is undergoing, because of this situation, a restriction on use, they have freed, if you like, the port of Alexandroupolis as to the possibilities of its exploitation by the Americans, investing approximately 2.5 million, by financing the lifting of this dredging. Greek technical companies also cooperated for the lifting, Greek divers next to Americans. So I think that, given the fact that part-time concessions, in part, may be granted for the use of the port, the port of Alexandroupolis now acquires other prospects from which, of course, the country and the local economy benefit. Next in line investments are the airport of Larissa and the area of Marathi of the maritime base ‘Suda’. It is estimated that 12 million to 15 million euros will be invested in infrastructure in Larissa, again with US funds and a benefit to the country - as well as doing so - and in Marathi around EUR 6 million, again from US funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u68	Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u69	This is because 'they are not sold, as they are furnished', as I have heard, but they are granted over a period of time, in the end they will be fruited, who? No one but the Greek side. These infrastructures will therefore remain for the benefit of the Armed Forces. Fourth and last - and I close - the Armed Forces are constantly facing the problem of the old primary material. The coverage of these needs cannot be fragmented and by investing resources with prices and methods of retailing, as I have told you, as was the case in the past. From now on, under this agreement, defence spending will be covered in a methodical way and, secondly, added value for the economy. This is because, in the main body of the agreement, which is not amended, Articles 9 and 10 are included, which allow large-scale coverage of national defence needs through the strategic relationship with the USA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u70	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u71	We will go and discuss with the American side, following the suggestions that we will receive from our military leadership, what exactly will we want. Are we going to want aggressive KIOWA helicopters, refreshed, but still functionally - in the summer the first of these will be available, after the crew training and available to our Armed Forces' Structure - to ask for some ships, such as the cruisers I have heard earlier? It depends on us. Will they be armoured personnel transfer vehicles from surplus defensive material, which if and if we agree to take them, whether we can develop them immediately in structures or modernise them by adding to them by means of the domestic defence industry upgrades to their operation? It's our case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u72	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u73	However, given that all this is possible through a new, revised strategic cooperation framework. The tool that makes this strategic relationship a reality is this mutual defence cooperation agreement. I think he is obviously beneficial to national interests, but above all to upgrading the country's Armed Forces, and that is why I call on you to vote in favour of the agreement. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Let's take a look at the schedule. The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardos, will now speak. Mr. Pafilis will continue, then Mr. Klons Grigoriadis will follow Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Koutsoubas, Mr. Velopoulos and Mrs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u75	When are we going to take the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u76	As you can see, my colleague, the Parliamentary Representatives - and they are in front of you, they will tell you - first of all when they ask for the floor. The presidents of the parties, if Mr. Tsipras comes, can't refuse. But you can do something. Talk to the respective party leaders to change. Mr. Villander, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start a little differently, but it will later be understood, because everything is linked to each other. I will begin with the fact that Greece is in a more trivial position than 2010, where it was deliberately led to the establishment of the IMF. I call it a trap and not a "crisis", because it is clear that there was no reason to subdue it to the memorials, while the trap was set up rather jointly, both by George Papandreou and the IMF, with the well-known co-responsibility mainly of the man placed head of ELSTAT in August 2010, while he was an IMF official from 1999 to 2010, according to his CV. This man has retrospectively increased the budget deficits, simply by changing the methodology for Greece alone, so that the trap is not perceived, which has been substantiated by many, including the former Minister of Finance of the New Democracy and now President of the profitees, as well as the great strategic importance of "ELELANDS" to be sold out at the "Latsis" Group, in a small book he wrote. What was the potential motive of George Papandreou? We don't think it was the profits that his brother earned on the known CDS, with which one's house is secured by the neighbor's, so he has every reason to burn it. Neither could his money from other speculators, but his belief that only the IMF could correct the problems of corruption, interlocutory and so on, which his father had introduced into Greek society. What was the IMF's motive? On the one hand, their involvement in the Eurozone, in order to be able to control the euro, before the US economy and the dollar were destroyed since the 2008 crisis, has certainly succeeded - and on the other hand to find new revenues to cover its costs, since the only customer left was Turkey, while no other country wanted it anymore, having been suffering from its robbery and destructive methods in the past. So we have led to the current situation, where from relatively controlled economic problems, such as public only debt and the current account deficit, we have managed to go bankrupt both the state and our private sector, we have lost our national sovereignty, we have mortgaged everything and are now at the mercy of Germany and the United States with huge economic, social, immigration, better settlement, and national problems. Why do I report all this today? Because in the situation in which we are situated, we must not, in fact, sign any contract, since we are being asked for terrible concessions without being offered to us at all. As regards the United States defence cooperation agreement, there have been many publications in the international media, concerning requests from Greece for the installation of more US forces on our territory, as well as for the concession of bases. I'm filing one of these reports in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are, therefore, our demands, for our own requests, which certainly concern the defence of our defenceless country as a result of the memoranda. In any case, drones have been installed in Larissa, air supply aircraft have appeared at "Eleftherios Venizelos" and in Souda, aggressive helicopters on the basis of the military aviation and is also created, in addition, a base at the port of Alexandroupolis, while of course there is Souda, which is upgraded to serve the major transport and supply aircraft. However, I have no picture of whether we have received any consideration, although we have never claimed our rights as a country, having learned to be begging with a puffy head. Of course, how can we demand consideration if it is the case that we are begging for the installation of the US forces? Even worse, we offer a series of facilities, without mentioning in the contract their costs for the Greek State, such as the cost of the frequency allocated. To have an idea of what this is about, we have to note here that for the mobile phone frequencies auctioned in 2011, State revenues were 119 000 000 from 'COSMOTE', 168,000 000 from 'VODAFONE - PANAFON' and 93 000 000 from 'WIND'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, many questions arise from the contract, mainly for what reasons the United States needs the bases in Greece and the dangers they expose us to. Furthermore, it is not clear how the foundations will be administered in the common presence of Greek and American forces, which is very important for our worthy. Continuing, we consider it necessary to compare Greece with Turkey, as far as their trade with the United States is concerned, knowing that Greece is - or allegedly is - an alternative to replacing the US bases in Turkey, which has approached Russia and, in fact, is gradually removed from NATO. Here, we will start from the fact that Turkey's population is eight to one on Greece, while its GDP was one to two before our country's bankruptcy, when it has, unfortunately, increased our distance to one to four. In other words, while Greece's GDP was $318 billion in 2007 and Turkey $675 billion in 2018, GDP was $200 billion in Greece and €851 billion in Turkey, substantiating how much the catch of memos, which of course are still going on. Now Greek exports to the United States amount to EUR 1.1 billion and our imports only EUR 750,000, while Turkey's corresponding exports are EUR 10.3 billion and its imports EUR 10.2 billion. There is therefore a huge difference between the two countries, with regard to trade with the United States in general, with Greece at only EUR 1.9 billion and with a surplus, while with Turkey at EUR 20.5 billion balanced. In particular, as far as military equipment is concerned, Turkey is also higher, since Greece was buying 68% from Germany from 2013 to 2017 and just 17% from the United States, when at the same time Turkey bought 59% from the United States. Continuing to the military forces, the US staff in Greece are four hundred seventy-three and in Turkey a thousand seventy-seven and twenty-nine of whom five hundred fifty people are in Inchirlik, where they store nuclear. The cost of the Inchurlik base is EUR 2.5 billion, mainly because of the nuclears stored, while the Souda naval base is EUR 545 000 000, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is there really a chance that American nuclear power will be installed in Greece if the United States eventually abandons the Turkish base? Does the government have any information and hide them from us? Is the installation of nuclear weapons in Araxos really considered? In conclusion, we stress that the Greek State has additional losses of revenue in the reported installations of the United States Armed Forces, such as exemption from taxes, duties, charges, charges and much more. So the question arises if the amount lost by the Greek State has been costed. The government could appreciate at least the minimum order of size of the annual government loss and inform us. In any event, the contract, the amendment of the previous contracts with the United States, does not in any way guarantee either the Greek interests or the economic sector or the provision of certain guarantees on Turkish claimability, or even the supply of any necessary equipment for the Armed Forces with financial facilities. It is logical, then, that we vote against it. We must, however, realise that we are on our own, both in terms of immigration and Turkish reproach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Villardo, for the time. Then, Mr. Paphis will be given the floor for asking him to be in time. We're making a little change. We continue with Mr. Pafili, then with Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis, Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Velopoulos, Mr. Koutsoubas, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou. Before Mr Varoufakis has asked for the floor - before the political leaders - the Foreign Minister, Mr Dendias. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u79	We want first of all to welcome all those who are at the edge of Greece protest today, but also in the past days against the criminal for our people and the people in the region of agreement with the United States of America, who turn our country into a military, aggressive moratorium with unforeseen consequences. Let's tell you it's not just the communists who are against it. They are hundreds of thousands of all the places that see what can happen in the future. We also want to remind everyone, particularly in SYRIZA - and I will say why - that the history of foreign bases of Americans - because the vast majority are American bases - is linked to multiple crimes. Is it like this or not? It's linked to multiple murders of peoples all over the place. Is it like this or not? Take the whole of mankind. It's linked to dissolution of countries. Yugoslavia is next to us. Below is Libya. They play a decisive role in organising coups in Greece and many other countries, with the release of dirty wars. That's why they're called bases of death. And they remain the death, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and not the progressive bases that you went to baptize us, making them the only exception to a progressive party in all mankind. This disgraceful agreement that turns the country, in fact, into an endless American base has something special and new: never, as far as we know before and in other countries, there may be some who are like you - it has not been delivered, as now, to a foreign power, to a foreign country, to the entire military infrastructure and civil infrastructure, as you do on this basis. What is that true? What country is it that Americans can use all military infrastructure and therefore also the country's army? We know all that. That is why we say that they are disgraceful among others when they say 'non-military infrastructure'. What now is the fairy tale served by all the forces serving the interests of those who have wealth? Because they want the Americans and the other prostates. The story is that it's supposedly a defensive deal with the United States and that it's supposedly protecting the security of the country. Mr. Panayotopoulos also spoke. Mr. Panayotopoulos, read, you must be as Minister of National Defence. Tell us both you and the rest of us: Is it true or not that the US bases are part of the more general planning of the United States and NATO, which is aggressive planning against peoples and countries in the wider region of the Middle East, and which has a second and most important and first objective that you both signed in SYRIZA and New Democracy, the encircling of Russia? Is it like this or not? What a fairy tale you tell the Greek people that the bases are being made to make projects and we will upgrade the defense etc.Huh? It is the design of imperialism that you are consciously taking part in this design and it is not about the country's defence at all. After all, this is all the reports of the Pentagon, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What are they saying? That US bases serve the interests of the United States of America for the wider region for the enforcement of democracy: see massacres, see killing, see outdated refugees. Even for upgrading the F-16, Pentagon’s letter to the government was that “F-16 will be upgraded so that they can cooperate with US planes in the operations in the wider region.” Is it like this or not? We've filed it. Is it true or isn't it? This is also confirmed by the activity so far. It is also confirmed by all the scenarios of the exercises, Minister and other gentlemen that you support, which are done and financed by the Greek people from Norway to wherever you want. So how are they confirmed? Soda one. Is that about Greece's security? It was used in all war operations, Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria. Yes or no. So is the Inchirlick base, cooperating with the Souda base for the same companies. Secondly, Aktio, flying "AWACS", spying, were yes or no, used in the war against Yugoslavia? What security are you telling us about? For the people next door to be slain and to be torn apart. Let's go below: Araxos, Android. Is it an intermediate refuelling station for the naval aircraft that they have attempted both in Libya and throughout the wider region, yes or no? They're serving the country's defense? And you're preparing to bring nuclear power. Do these nuclears serve the Greek defense? I will give an example later of what nuclears are like and what these agreements are. There is planning for the new bases, and what are you telling us now in education? Do you think we're licking our fingers? Do Americans make bases because they're good at Stefanovicio to train Greek pilots? And those who will train them will train them for their own plans. It's a base of helicopters northward, see Russia. Alexandroupolis is the same. Mr Lebanese, I think, told his ostrich that for Alexandroupolis they would be a guarantee for Americans who would be a transit centre for oil and for all others. What are you telling us? Alexandroupolis sees Black Sea. That goal serves Russia's curiosity. Drones in Larissa. That's unbelievable. Ask a serious soldier. It delivers the tracking even to the need of any of the state-of-the-art drones to go to the entire Greek territory and to the Libyan Sea and north that arrive in the Black Sea. That is the aim of the drones. What's wrong with them? Spy on the Turkish allies to give us evidence where we're going to bomb? Even the little kids don't believe that. Let's go to the Syrian and Scaramaga shipyards. What are Americans? Benefits? They want to repair their ships, so they take them. That's why the legendary foreign policy with the SYRIZA Chinese has just rubbed the teeth the Americans have cut out cooperation with the Chinese and you're giving them directly to the Americans. What do military exercises serve? What national security? In Norway, what did we want? Two F-16 and another staff. It was the coldtest war exercise, the greatest and at this time the so-called Cold War. What we want in the exercises with Bulgaria, Romania, etc. Black Sea? Who are we after? Turkey's aggression or it's in Russia's circle scenarios. One more thing. Exercises were carried out in Greece, Israel, Americans. What simulation was made in the Grevenes area? By simulation of Iran. What the Greek people pay is for their defence, or to participate in a future war and attack in Iran? Of course, we should also remind you of something that you and the Turkish pilots and other soldiers are cutting together and taking part in all these exercises. So what does this have to do with the country's defence and security? With one thing all this has to do with the participation of Greece and not the Greek people, which is a philosopher of our people, through the plans of the big businessmen, the large monopolies, wars and atrocities, so that the monopolistic groups can claim a greater share together and have done so along the way. This is what the Greek people are financing today with money and tomorrow is called and we are not in danger, we are telling the truth, we are financing it with his blood too. And Russia's statements and warnings, but also Iran's, are known. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll use my dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u80	There's no dentistry, Mr. Pafile. You'll be able to complete your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u81	The Minister spoke twice. That's where you didn't say anything. All military facilities will be struck that will be used for attacks. Russia has officially done this to the European governments, especially for the first nuclear blow signed by the SYRIZA government at the Warsaw Summit. So what are you going to tell the truth? Didn't you know that? After you signed it all. Then what are you talking about? What kind of hypocrisy is that? Didn't you know all the American plans for bases? What were the bases here? Entertainment centers? They're the kind of one that serves these plans. What will you say tomorrow to the young people and the young people who will be asked to be killed for American and other interests? What are you going to say to the mothers, to others who live next to the bases, if two or three missiles break down and people get killed? What are you gonna tell them? Are we protecting our borders? Are we protecting the interests of the Greek people? Will the Greek people be diluted for the Americans, monopolies and oil? One more thing, which is very serious. You're saying it helps national defense, don't you know that bases are state in custody? This argument by the Greek commander is for mocking. You know, I served in Drama, who was then an American nuclear base, the artillery, eight, the biggest. The commander was a colonel, and the American was a captain. The Greeks did the training and Americans had the keys to the shells. And he got him to sit down and be anxious. You're going to run this command? However, most importantly, in times of crisis, when the Americans - and they have done so before - will they not help and choose balance or undermine our own national defence, can they do so or not? Can they with the drones or not? They can! Here you hand them all the communications. It's in the deal. Can they or can't they? And I say it here. Those who know and the soldiers can enter the upgraded F-16 software and send them in the opposite direction from where they should go. Yes or no? Not to say about F-35, what they can do. So they can literally paralyse the country's defence capacity and they have done so in the past. I'll be done in a minute. We were expecting nothing but the New Democracy, but this disgusted hypocrisy of SYRIZA is really amazing. It breaks all the records. Strategic dialogue. You opened him up. We read you here what the State Department says when you were government. What does strategic dialogue serve? He serves the interests of the United States of America in the wider region. After you have washed the American imperialism - it is good now that American imperialism, "it's good for NATO", a Katrugalu statement to the committee when the Prespes were discussing - after you did Piat Vice-President of the Government, since before you passed the parliament, you put the bases to work - could anyone say it's illegal, but it's nothing - since you did all of this, today what do you say? You say temporary freeze. So, Mr. Dritsa, what exactly a freeze? Will the works stop? They're leaving Stefanovia? Will they leave Alexandroupolis? Will they leave Marathi? Will the other bases stop? Where are you going to say such a thing? To God! Bad words now about the allies and the "Dambly Good" Trump? So, what are you asking of the administration now? I told you about the administration. It's a big mockery, and the soldiers know it. Let him dare, I was told by Papanastasis, a Greek officer to go into the homes that the Americans live in the Aktio. He'll be shot before he gets there. And the soldiers know that. Is that so, Mr. Mylonakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u82	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u83	I'm done. Well, I say. What are you waiting for? A statement? Well, don't you know that the Americans, whether it's the democratic or the conservative, say the same thing, say 'find it', play with both of them? Well, let's see. Decade of 1970. Biscuit-kissinger talks. What happened? They developed the "CONTRIA" and the "SMIK". Bush - Mitsotakis, 1990s. What happened? The deals have been made nice, and so forth. And for the US base. The Imias and the Grilling of the Aegean have emerged. Strategic dialogue today and agreement on bases. And what happened? Turkey claims everything. He also made the deal with Libya and started talking about Crete and everything else. So the people can't wait for anything. He needs to get up. We'll be in the front line. He'll put his seal on, and they might seem so hard today. You know, what time brings, it's not time. We just call it that way to hear it. The responsibilities you assume against the Greek people to send him to the slaughterhouse, you will pay them very expensive and will be day after day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u84	Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has been speaking since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government, the New Democracy Government, brought the House to pass a bill containing a total of twelve international conventions to be ratified, which are most typically useful to our good relations with various countries, both inside and outside the European Union, and in theory aim to observe international rules and good functions. But here, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a small one - but there is - 'but'. So, within the multitude of contracts, contracts have been included which require particular ratification, I dare say, our attention and which in no way can be regarded as formal or processive. One of them, which we are even called upon to bake today, is the international convention entitled 'Preventing the Amendment Protocol to the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America'. I do not consider it necessary, first of all, to describe, like all the previous ones here, the articles of this convention, since we believe that these have been made perfectly understandable in the meantime. After all, our special speaker, Sophia Sakorafa, has described them very well, I would say with rare clarity and conceivableness. I will confine myself to asking just one small, poetic, but also a rhetorical question: 'Police General, what were you asking for in Larissa a Water'? He's Nikos Engonopoulos, of course. I guess you know most people. It's from Bolivar. In 1942-1943 this poetic collection was released. I should now like to extend this reasoning and extend it to the ministers. So, Minister, what would two of our frenchmen be doing and some hundred and forty of our officers in Saudi Arabia? Would it be in some way more useful to be around here and, at such an unprecedented period of tension, would anyone say about our post-cultural history in Greek-Turkish? Would it be better if it were in the Peloponnese, Crete, to be in the Aegean Sea, in Kastelorizo, to be somewhere, anyway, where our national sovereignty is threatened than in Saudi Arabia? Think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not think that as suddenly the American bases here in Greece are multiplying, in fact quadruple? It can't be my idea. Can he? As, of course, it cannot only be my idea that there is a kind of symphony of official Greek foreign policy, that is, of our Government, of the New Democracy, with the extreme, extreme militaristic policy of President Trump. Notarily, just to prove this conspiracy, I will mention the announcement to you yesterday, just yesterday, in various newspapers, the purchase and placement of the famous floating dam, about a thousand kilometres from the Greek Government in the Aegean Sea, of course in the model Trump in relation to the wall of Mexico. I imagine that this move, in other words a floating dam in the Aegean Sea, serves two purposes at the same time. On the one hand, it is against world common sense that, at the end of the day, it is possible for the seas to build borders, as long as you give away their left-wing obsessions and ideas and, on the other hand, to resolve at the same time, once and for all, the extreme refugee problem facing our country and the European Union. I shall therefore propose, in my turn, that we set it up and always, of course, in the American model, what Mr Trump has done, that we move - and I think that business is brilliant my idea, think of the cost of buying and placing this dam in the difficult Syrian refugees, their grandparents and children, of course, with our model the Trump doctrine, the logic that says if you were not there, we would not need it, because you would not come and so, since you have come, pay it. Ladies and gentlemen, to be serious. It is not enough to offer so many services to the American army, when, in fact, the President of the United States of America does not miss an opportunity, as if he were doing so on purpose, to stumble his support and friendship with the Turkish leader, Mr Erdogan, in the face of the Turkish leader? What is the truth about the exchanges that Greece will gain by multiplying, at least fourfold, American bases? The answer, as always, as has always been for centuries, is absolutely no return. We have said that we are allies of NATO, but how much more we have to prove it at such a fragile juncture and while tensions in our neighborhood are growing - and we say so to a very dangerous extent. Is it not for you, Mr Ministers, to understand that the proliferation of US bases in our country is automatically multiplying and targeting our country and indeed from diversity, from different directions, from our traditional allies? Given, firstly, the proliferation of US bases in our country, secondly, of the recent, grossly contrary to international law, the killing of a state official, recognised by the United Nations - Iran I mean - by which the United States is not at war, and even while it - the murdered I mean - there was nothing in diplomatic, peacekeeping mission and on the territory of a third country - which is why I say mafia, you know, mafia starts from Bulgaria, book a hotel room on our coastal avenue, perform their contract and the other day it is in Bulgaria, do not happen again, do not happen to the Bulgarians, it was, however, I could say about Greece, but it was in a third country, a mafia process, i.e. - thirdly, the exacerbation of tensions, at the time that this murder has brought and uncertainty about the future initiatives of these parties, i.e., in the case of the United States and of America, and the major ones of these countries. We in Mera25 consider that our country should be released from its essentially unconditional tradition and binding on the militaristic side of the United States. I'd like to say something about Mrs. Pappigga. My colleague, Mrs Papayannakis, we are not by any means voting against this bill. We are voting against it in its essence and not just because these articles are somewhat against what we believe. We believe our tie to American imperialism is criminal for the future of our country. We believe it as a whole. We believe that it is not our position within NATO, at least in the long term. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u87	Mr President, I would like the floor to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u88	You're welcome. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u89	Mr President, thank you. I would like to make a statement about a village from the placement of the Greek Parliamentary Representative. My fellow Parliamentary spokesman made a reference to an old story that has taken the course of justice and has ended up, on possible profits - it says - of the former Prime Minister's brother Papandreou from the game of CDS. I would like to say to him that this case has been closed by court judgments condemning Mr Kammens. If the colleague is warmed up, he will also pay what a court will charge him for a case brought against him, to remain in that position. Otherwise, I ask him to get away from this nonsense and to withdraw what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like to speak very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u92	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u93	I did not expect a politician to threaten a colleague's actions first. Secondly, if we wait for Greek justice to solve Greece's problems, it would have solved "SIEMENS" with the armaments for decades. So the rest, I leave it in history, so we know what we're talking about in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u94	The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendias, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to respect fully the time and perhaps limit it, as the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotopoulos has already been placed, and the Prime Minister of the country will also speak later. First of all, as our Parliamentary representative, Mr Lebanese, has done before, I would like to express the best wishes of the Government for the recovery of our colleague, Tyres Alexiadis. I think we all wish him the best. The second thing I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that I think it is my duty to condemn in the most vertical way the patriopathic behaviour of the former Member of the Nazi culture. The 'form' refers to the nazi structure, because it has been independent in the European Parliament. If we are exhausting our love for our country by smuggling flags from other countries, then I am very afraid that we are making our love for our country in an extremely problematic and totally unacceptable way and rather more problems for it. The Greek Government and the country as a whole have nothing to do with these practices and vertically renounce them and reject them. I now come to the question we are discussing. The Government today brings the amendment to the annex to the Mutual Cooperation Agreement between Greece and the United States to the House. This agreement, as you know, was signed in 1900 and ratified by Law 1893/1990. The majority rapporteur has referred to the agreement in an entirely adequate manner. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always been trying, since I was very honoured to have the position of Foreign Minister, to express my opinion in the way that will allow us to have an intelligent dialogue. I think we all understand the peculiarity of moments. I think we all understand that the situation is the most liquid of post-multiple. And I use the last "watcher" to avoid using another that will probably stimulate reflexively in Greek society. But there is a need for great attention to the way in which we have thoughts and the way in which we are conducting the dialogue between ourselves on issues that essentially relate to our national existence. I have tried to explain this since the first day, for example. As you know very well, there has been no single word of criticism about the previous situation. No one picks up a ministry perfect. It's known. However, what we have to serve is much greater than the party benefit of each and every one, every party, every party, any other government. Absolute national harmony is a necessary treaty for our national existence. And so we all have an absolute obligation, and of course the government first of all, to serve this need, even if this leads to the unanswered abandonment of the obvious, even though we have to be tolerated in the face of accusations or thoughts which could easily be answered, but where acidification would not serve what is our constitutional obligation, namely the well-being of the country and society and the safeguarding of its national independence. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the government, but I also think the broad concept of the country's political world, with the legitimate exceptions that we all know, have the idea that the expansion of the American footprint in Greece serves our national security. If there is another position that could lead to a more successful negotiation, I would be ready to hear it. Because I understand that this is not so simple as to be said in the context of a five-minute parliamentary speech by any of my colleagues, I can assure you that my time is at your disposal. But please, let us avoid the stereotypes of the past between the national brokers and the ultrapatriots or between the incompetent to negotiate and the intelligent who possess the key to the only truth and which would convince the United States to adopt by one set of our positions, to crush the country in question by Greek laws and others and others. We do not promote an intelligent dialogue with such over-simplifications. We must really and seriously pursue the fulfilment of our national objective, which is the independence and well-being of the country, the main question we have to answer. Because - I remind you - this agreement does not go any further in any other country. It is not an agreement which is our alliance with the United States against a third party. This is not the correct reading of it and, if I may say so, it is not its permissible reading and it is not its reading that serves the national interest. So this agreement has a criterion that we need to see if it is being served. Does the perception of superpower, as expressed, serve or, if you wish, match the Greek positions on matters of particular national interest? Let us take, for example, the huge issue of whether islands are entitled to exclusive economic zone and continental shelf. For Greece, that is self-evident. However, there are other countries in the region that are quite the opposite, in the view that the islands are not entitled to exclusive economic zone, that they are not entitled to a continental shelf, and that the only thing they have is their territorial waters. What is the United States' view on this matter? I'm reading you the State Department statement: "Unlike what he claims...", he mentions Turkey here, "... in accordance with international law, as illustrated in the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the islands are generally entitled to an exclusive economic zone and are entitled to a continental shelf, to the same degree as any other region." How is this position of the United States, ladies and gentlemen? How do you value it in relation to our national interests? Does Greece want it or does it not want it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u96	Self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u97	Someone said self-evident. Really? Do all countries have the same position? Can you provide me with a similar statement with this clarity of other important forces in the region please? Since she's so self-evident and not heterosexual? Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of Libya and this really neo-Sureal agreement, which was signed between the Turkish Government and the Sarajevo government, has been mentioned. What is the position of the United States on this agreement? The Greek Government has a position, which it considers to be firm, that it is based on international law. What is the read of the superpower? Is it compatible with the Greek position, serves the Greek position, or is it against the Greek position? I read to you, "We continue to worry about Turkey's challenges in the region, including in particular illegal drilling in the territorial waters of Cyprus and the recent maritime demarcation agreement between Turkey and Libya." Is it useful? Is it indifferent to us? The letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have all read it. Signed. "Your prosperity, security and democracy." Is it indifferent to us? Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard it say - the Minister for National Defence, Mr Panagiotopoulos, responded on this - on issues relating to the granting of used defence material. First of all, I told the committee that this agreement is recommended by the military personnel to us. I am not entitled to know exactly what material the Armed Forces need. The fact that I have been a Minister of National Defence does not allow me to think that I have the key to knowledge and the know-how of the matter. So as these things have been said, we have been in another era. We are not asking for some used armoured, some used helicopters and some used ships. We have the choice and the Minister told you to take used helicopters and used armoured vehicles. But our perception is the perception of finding know-how and knowledge of the means of the next decade, of creating infrastructure for the next decade. And I specifically mentioned the example of the mistake in the 1990s, when we took the four Ambrams of 8 thousand tonnes each, and after we wasted a load of money to serve and integrate them, then we did it on our own. The agreement does not serve the perception of yesterday. He serves tomorrow's interests. I conclude, Mr President. An argument about freezing has been made. I respect that as an argument, a thought of pressure to achieve something more. But, first of all, the freezing, that is, the delay in implementation, who is serving? For we are clearly telling you that we want this presence. We consider, for example, that the American presence in Alexandroupolis is plus for Greece, is not less. I don't want to delay her, we don't want to slow her down. We'd like to speed up. And I would accept the criticism of the national delegation, that while this agreement was signed in October we now bring it to ratification. That would be a legitimate criticism. And I also said, beyond the real argument, that the institutional argument: who enables a government to provide convenience without the national parliament having accepted them? Unless the thought is to stop giving facilities to the American side or mocking the national delegation and the Greek society, pretending to be under NATO umbrella and when they are not under NATO umbrella. We can't do that. We believe that this agreement serves, ladies and gentlemen, the interests of the country. I conclude by thanking you again - because in my contacts with colleagues and with the members of the Foreign Policy Council, the level has been excellent and worthy of the criticalness of the moments - and by saying this: if the national delegation wants to hold a debate on foreign policy, on the basis of the country's choices and the country's capabilities and the opportunities we have, I am happy to do so. The most likely is that it has to be done behind closed doors, so we can talk the way we need to talk. But please, as the last deposit, keep this: the country's largest weapon, by way of paradox, is its indiscriminate national unity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. The President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, has the floor. Here comes Mr. Velopoulos, Mr. Koutsoubas, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr. Loverdes, and we continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, because in this House we are thirsty for dialogue instead of these monologues, I will respond immediately to what you have said. You have raised the question of whether we are indifferent to statements that seem to be closing to the side of your perception of our national interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u100	Do we not share them, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u101	I'll tell you why we don't share them. First, you read an announcement from the State Department. Mr Dendia, you are experienced, you know very well that the problem we have always had as a Greek state with the United States since the 1960s, not to say before, is that there is no American policy. The opinion of the State Department, other than the opinion of the National Security Council, other than the White House, other than Congress. Here they tried to prepare a coup in 1967 and another coup was preparing the Pentagon, another coup the CIA was preparing, among others, they weren't talking. In other words, I agree with you that this was a positive move. But it's not credible. Let me give you another example, very recent. How many decades do we hear the State Department expressing that it respects the United Nations' decisions to resolve the Palestinian problem and respects the 1967 borders, within which a Palestinian state should be created? You saw what happened this week. The President of the United States has torn apart all these commitments, thrown all these announcements into his basket and presented a so-called plan for the resolution of the Palestinian people, which does nothing but deplete, condemn, extract the expectations of the Palestinian people. You should know that. I'm sure you know that. And if you are based on a State Department statement, to pass a protocol to ratify a very important defence agreement like this, I think you should agree with me that it is not a solid basis for this or a statement by Mr Pompelo, which is now there, tomorrow it does not exist. Mr Trump himself, every day through twitter, has changed three decisions and makes three different, contradicting one another, statements. You must take that seriously, Mr Tindemans, and I am sure you will. I come to this penalty. It is impossible for Mera25 to vote for a protocol to amend a mutual defence cooperation agreement between Greece and the United States, when it is an agreement that is clearly neither mutual nor defence. Mutual? You spoke of the port of Alexandroupolis. Let's discuss whether Greece is protected by the presence of the 6th Fleet, the 7th Fleet, the 35th Fleet at the port of Alexandroupolis. We know very well that in 1974 - despite the fact that we had a junta government here, which was essentially US officials - the presence of the US army and armed forces has not helped us to defend our national sovereign rights at all. Apart from that, however, as a legal text, it would be mutually agreed if, at the same time as unobstructed and uninterrupted access to the US ships offered by this agreement in Alexandroupolis, it offered uninterrupted and uninterrupted access to the Greek fleet, to a french which might arrive in New Jersey. Why don't you put that on? That means reciprocity at least on paper. But this anecdotes - which, if you think about it, is not - we run - our Parliamentary spokesman also said - with a message, with an e-mail, with a request from the American allies and send war material, anti-aircraft weapons, freshmen in Saudi Arabia! What defensive purposes of the American nation exactly do we serve in doing so? Nobody. On the contrary, we, who really need to defend our national sovereign rights, as you said quite rightly, what are we facing from the great ally, beyond the statement I said? Actually not even equal distances. Let me remind you that on December 4, which passed us, Mr. Erdogan was in the White House. Of course, Mr. Mitsotakis did. What's the difference? Mr. Erdogan left with an agreement on increased bilateral trade relations of 100 billion dollars, and Mr. Mitsotakis not to tell you what he left with. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is not a defensive one. The Suleymani murder in Baghdad was a flagrant violation of international law, strengthened the region and will continue to do so for a long time. The involvement of the Greek area through these agreements in this process, we in Mer25 consider it to be illusory first. Because what we are actually doing is facilitating militaristic raids in the United States around the region in contrast to international law. If you think that serves national interests, we can discuss it. But at least, Minister, may I ask you to change the title of the bill? Say this as a 'one-sided facilitation agreement on behalf of Greece's militant invasions of the United States of America', to say things with their name? Tell me that we should make it easier for them in their militaristic raids and discuss it whether or not it serves us. But do not mock Parliament, do not mock the Greek people! There is no reciprocity and there is no defence cooperation here. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, not to talk to this Parliament today, in January 2020, as if we were in 1990. Yeah, well, Imperialism keeps it, but we have new data. Minister, do you know that? I'm sure you know that. In an interview given by Donald Trump on April 19, 2019 at "CBS" and specifically to journalist Jeff Glore - there is a YouTube, you can see it - asked who the greatest enemy of the United States of America is right now. Do you remember what he said? This is my translation, but verbatim. "I think we have many enemies. I think that the European Union is our main enemy of what we are traded with. You wouldn't think about it," he told the journalist, "but he's an enemy." I would like you to convince us here in Parliament that the Greek Government is aware of this new data. Take the first thing Donald Trump did when he was elected president. What was it? He effectively abolished the agreement with Iran, decommissioning Iran and ending sanctions. It was the first thing he did. Do you know why he did it? I'll tell you my opinion and tell me whether I'm wrong or not. It was a siege ram with which it tried to create breaches within the European Union. The next day Mrs Merkel came out and said that this agreement between the European Union and Iran will be respected. Ten minutes later, a large German company stated that they would not comply with it because they preferred the reductions in tax rates in the United States by any business that provided them with this framework of agreement with Iran. Five days later, we had the first conflict between Merkel and Macron on tariff issues. All this is part of Donald Trump thinking. It's new data in the imperialist context in which we live. For Donald Trump at the moment, the break-up of the European Union, the division of each of the global multidimensional procedures and agreements, by the World Trade Organisation, the Paris Agreement, is part of a project that will survive Donald Trump, regardless of who will then come out - unless our friend Bernie Sanders comes out - and it concerns the creation of a new international regime, where the United States alone will negotiate with Germany, separately with France, separately than with you. In this context we in the Merra25 consider that'strongmen', like Erdogan, will be one of the main beneficiaries. Is that what you are rewarding with the rush to ratify this agreement? Is this a moment? We are vertically against this agreement, whether it is today or in two years' time. But we're trying to think about it from your side. Is this the moment to reward Europe's dynamist, the dynamist of the joint action on climate change, the peace dynasty in the Middle East, the moratorium on the hopes of the Palestinian people, the best friend of those who survive democracy, human rights, whether they are called Orban, Salvador, Lepen, Putin or Erdogan? We, as Mera25, are voting against as Greeks, because we do not believe that this agreement will ultimately - contrary to what you believe - strengthen our capacity to defend our national territory and our seas. We are voting against as Europeans, which sees an agreement rewarding Europe's dynamist. I am personally voting against as a friend of Julian Assanz, who rotates in a British prison, because Mr Trump in particular, along with the National Security Establishment, is trying to destroy him because he dared, you and I, to know the crimes committed by the United States of America's armed forces in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. We are voting against the Palestinians. We are voting on behalf of our Jewish partners, who, in the face of Mr Nietanyahu on the one hand and Mr Trump on the other, see the humiliation of their own expectations for a democratic Israel that will live peacefully with the Palestinians. We are voting against our American partners who see such an agreement as confirmation of the worst government in the last few centuries. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Some will say: 'Do you vote against and put them with the beast?' Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that Constantine Karamanlis not only didn't sign this, but, when he needed, took Greece out of NATO. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, what Andreas Papandreou taught me, that the "yes men" have no luck with the United States of America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u102	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to get far. I will simply be allowed by President Varoufakis, one, two observations, since he has been kind enough to give me the floor. First of all, Mr President - you have used it, I am sure, as a verb - that during the Erdogan visit to the United States, an agreement was not signed. The wish for doubling emerged. I must tell you that this is the permanent wish expressed by President Erdogan. When meeting with someone, Turkey declares its desire to double the trade over the next few years. The same happened at his meeting with Mr Mitsotakis. However, there was no signature of an agreement between Turkey and the United States, which would result in doubling. On the issue of JCPOA, the nuclear agreement, the Greek position is the European position. You know her, I don't have anything to say about it. You will allow me to ask you to observe, since I am forced to say something which leads me to a, you will allow me to tell you, a trap, that is, to discuss this defence cooperation agreement with the United States as an agreement on Greek-Turkish relations. That is something that must not be done. It can't be done! But, in any case, we leave the deal at all. You have raised a number of issues relating to relations between the United States and Turkey and I am commenting on them, not as a debate on the agreement. The 'EstMed Act', which was passed by the United States legislature, is not being valued? Only the statements and tweets, which in any case are the views of the President of the United States? "EstMed Act" is not valued? Has there ever been a more advanced position of the United States' legislative bodies vis-à-vis Turkey? What is more, is the suspension of Turkey's participation in the production of F-35 not being assessed? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand and forgive me, very clearly, the needs of policy. I fully understand the existence of a left-wing, centre-left audience, which has specific reflexes, specific historical references and a specific way of interpreting or wishing to interpret things. But let me tell you that we are not at a stage where we can allow this to ourselves as an incentive to place on these issues. We're not in a time of peace. And of course, for God, there is no possibility of separating the Chamber into the subordinates and willingmen and the independent and brave patriots. We have paid these divisions very much over the years even in the Migration. The patriotism of all for me and the government is absolutely certain. The New Democracy, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis does not claim the monopoly of patriotism. But I am also not addressing it to anyone in the Chamber, but I am referring to it as a general position, it has a vertical line towards patriotism and the effort to exploit patriotism among the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u104	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u105	Mr Varoufakis has the floor for two minutes, but why do we open up a lot?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u106	I will be brief, Mr President. I respect the little time you give me. Minister, you will never hear an aggressive definition from me. Under no circumstances are we in Mera25 asking for the monopoly of patriotism nor are we denying you the right to be a patriot. We regard you as a patriot. But can we disagree about how this people's patriotic interest is being met, without each other's characterisation? I agree with and commend this. Discord must also end aggressive cross-determinations. First of all, why do I want to stay in one minute - after Erdogan's visit to the United States we have had two major developments of economic importance? Firstly, an important swap line between the FED and the Central Bank of Turkey, which gave Erdogan great breath. If you think this has nothing to do with good personal chemistry Erdogan and Trump, it is your right. I can say a lot more about it, but I will not do that, Mr President, I promise you. Secondly, with regard to small moves, which Mrs Papagasa had said before, we may be watching lately, which seems to be getting a little older towards Greece, whether this is a legacy from Congress or a statement from the State Department, these are good. I don't want to remove your right to applaud them. What we are telling you, as a PARTA25, is that no such move by the United States is going to change the fact that at the critical moment of a conflict the United States of America will not move their little finger in favour of us, just as they did in 1974, as they will not do tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. To believe that by giving this agreement to the United States, the specific United States, which, with this government, operates aggressively towards Europe, to the peoples of the Middle East, to our neighbours, this strengthens our sovereign rights, we consider it to be a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u107	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, no one could disagree with what consensually you mentioned a few minutes ago. We would be crazy, crazy, not to provide you with all that national unity that you would need in difficult times, today Greece and your Government. But I have a question. How could I consent to something when I don't know what you're doing? Tell me, now, how can the Greek Solution and the rest of the parties not in the area of disagreement and the things we could have, since you have never invited us to inform us, as party presidents, what in the background are you talking about? May I agree, in white, with what you are doing and become a partner, an accomplice to any failure, which I do not wish for, why are our national issues? It's a rhetorical question that can be unviolently answered that I can't do. I can't agree on something I don't know. Tell us what the red lines are as a whole on your issues, so we can finally see where we agree and where we disagree. And I promise you that, and still disagree, when you call us there, I will not go public to say where we disagree. Because it's a national matter. But you cannot do anything you want, Minister, you and your Government, and say "collapse with what we say, national unity, national reconciliation, national solidarity". It is quite different from saying 'yes, let me inform you, see where we disagree, see where we agree and make a single stand for all parties regardless of the left or the right, the centre' and I don't know what else. Yeah, like that, yeah. Mr. Minister, do you have Mr. Pompeo's letter? Do you have her with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u109	He's here somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u110	Look at that. Do you have a date? Because I have a letter from Mr Pompeo, which has no date. The leaked letter has no date. It is unprecedented from State Department letter without date. I don't know, but let's take a look at it. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Tell me if yours has a date, because mine doesn't. He surrendered today. We searched her and found her. Tell me, please, is there a date? Or is it all weather and all time a letter, that is, we have it five years and can we use it whenever we want it to be fun? I might be wrong, and I'm sorry. Do you have a date? Is there a date in the letter? I'd like it on the date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u111	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u112	No, no, don't answer that. I want the letter to give it to me, see if it has a date, because I have a curiosity as a journalist. I'm a perverted reporter in the brain. I say this because I want us to be careful when we express our views. Clearly you are absolutely right, 100 billion is not, anyway, their American trade. It can't be, because it's 20 billion and it can't be 100 anyway. You said, Minister, about EastMed. You know, you have a party president today, Minister, to you, MP in 2007-2008-2009, who when I was talking about EastMed and the pipelines and oil in here most of them smiled. Mr. Dendia, you weren't here, if I remember well, in 2007-2008. Were you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u114	I guess you were smiling or laughing at me, too. Everyone laughed at New Democracy when I said about the pipelines and EastMed. Now, you suddenly became EastMed signifiers. Of course you forget to say that 'EastMed Act' to be implemented, because both time-consuming and cost-consuming is not an easy task without Italy signing. I would like to say that it is not up to us to become EastMed, it is up to others. That is very, I repeat, important for tabling it here. It's not a success of your own government either. Let's get this straight. PASOK, even late, made that oil story with Mr. Maniotis. I have been talking with him for years endless and hours endless in order to implement a oil agreement. I say this to make it clear here in New Democracy, on the other hand, because you speak today as if you did EastMed, as if you did the oil land, as if you did all of it. It's not like that. You once laughed at us, you once told us "oilmen". Today you're all from Texas, Texans. You're a little pro-American, you've become texans. But at this point in time I would like to say something. Today, for those who do not know or forget, the Imia became on 30 January 1996. They started at 2 p.m. and ended late the next day. I'm telling the Minister, because I don't know if this is an unfortunate time when you brought this to the Greek Parliament. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Then, Minister, do you know what we paid? The indecisiveness of Mr. Simitis, the indecisiveness of the Greek officers, the high-ranking, not the low-ranking officers and, most importantly, that we were deceived again by the Americans. The Americans again fooled the Greeks and what was "achieved" with the Imias was the crumbling of these rock islands, that is, the crumbling of the wider area. We must be very careful about some things. Because I saw Mr. Aygenakis here - now he's gone - to say that, as an opportunity to give, you put not a self-government, but ten selfgovernment with that story. Minister, I know you're not too footbally, but you put ten shots. You've managed to make it impossible for all of you to join together and their fans and fans. That is not the case with any government that is seriously politicizing. And here it proved to be something - and I say it very clearly, and this morning - that politicians run football and big shareholders rule the place. Unfortunately, that is the reality. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Politicians, then, run football with the Minister's intervention, which is both self-governed and in the end was a foolish, not to say stupid, choice. And here I would like to say this: If indeed, colleagues of all parties, there was a law in Greek football, all teams since 1974 should have fallen to the Second National and Third National. They called the "Bulgars" the Macedonians and never punished the other groups. Never, but never dared a government to cast a group of the South, the North, on anti-national issues, on - I know - of the East or the West. There isn't. It's the football law and you're enjoying yourself and you're acting for just one reason, because Mr. Savvidis is doing well with SYRIZA and Mr. Marinakis with you. You've been divided into two camps, the Greens and the Venetians. If you remember well in Byzantium like this, it was two folds and so it is today and you have the few - folk who you serve or serve. I'm over it because it's not important. Mr. Dendias, the great Aristotle, wanting to photograph the Athenians, who were strong at the time and just before, as America today, but was in the west, said this and listen to it, Mr. Minister, because it is good to know from Aristotle: "No one is a real friend for the man who has many friends." He said it about the Athenians who had many friends, but weak countries had to be friends. That's what you told us today. Isn't it important that we're trying to be friends with the Americans? Isn't that important? Yeah, it's important. Are these friends with the Greeks? Are the Americans friends with the Greeks? It's a rhetorical question. When did it historically prove that America, the United States, supported Greece? You tell me. When did the last dollar really come to help us on the ground? Don't tell me about Skyros because there's been some haircuts! They cut our hair and yours to get it. They took it for free, for years, to make their own ships in Skyros, their warships, leaving to the area. Don't be fooled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u115	The Marshall Plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u116	The Marshall plan was another story, and some people took it, Mr. Admiral, who made supermarkets a few decades later. They took the food and made it supermarkets, grocery stores and grocery stores. Let it go to good, don't remember that. Let's actually go. This deal you've brought here is heterogeneous, clear things. It's not a mutual agreement. We are not against the good neighborhood and agreement with the Americans, to God! We all want good relations with the rest of the peoples, states and nations and especially with the mighty. Who wouldn't want to? But the question is what we give and what we get. Trump's friend Erdogan says "cazan-cazan". I will tell you 'win-win'. What we are winning matters, that's what the Greek Solution says. I don't give if I don't. I can't give you anything unless I get anything. I ask all of you, since the invasion of Cyprus has taken place, what have the Americans done to involve the Turkish invaders? Nothing. They had Kisinger who was telling them "do more and more". The Greeks swallowed, the Hunters - with the nonsense that distinguished them from the Hunters - what they were called unreasonable. Well, we don't even get to democracy today after forty-five years not to put a brain on and swallow what the Americans tell us. It's not right. What intervention was made to Imia by the Americans, your friends, our friends, the friends of all the peoples, countries and states? No intervention. But this is where SYRIZA's hypocrisy begins. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA, can you make a deal, do you and do not sign it today, do not agree to sign it after you brought it? I cannot understand why on two important issues that you have implemented - oil, maps and bases - you are not signing. If this is not called political opportunism or if it is not hypocrisy, something else must be said. I say this with a lot of sympathy, because I will tell you in the simple folk, be careful where you sign. Our signature goes very carefully. You put signatures when you were government and today you have them and you say 'we do not vote'. Tell me now, why are you doing this? But you can give me a reasoned answer. There is no point in foreign policy. It says 'freeze the deal'. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're freezing it and we're waiting to come back later? It can't be done. You did, say 'yes' today, to be honest at least with your signature. Where are the bases? Five, six bases, however, throughout Greece and filling bases. What do we give? We give everything, Minister. Don't be fooled. We prioritise the use of civilian facilities. Port of Alexandroupolis: You have a very bizarre, 'open commitment and other facilities as agreed'. That's why I'm saying we need to talk seriously. What should I agree with you? You say in 'and other facilities as agreed'. What are the agreed facilities? Can you tell me? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need a few more minutes. Greece grants classified radio frequencies to a third state. Greece grants radio frequencies. Infringement of the national security code and classified information from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. What are we losing? Let me tell you, Mr. Defence Minister and Mr. Foreign Minister, what we're losing. In order to permit frequencies of mobile telephony companies, Greece has received 250 million in the competition and the Americans, you are giving free frequencies, without taking one euro or one dollar. Why are you doing this? Not a single euro! Why? You tell me, isn't that a loss? Who's gonna pay for it? You're one of your wages? What are we losing? Public revenue losses, taxes, duties, fees. Minister, I will tell you one thing: can you allow the bases to be powered by Italy? He says they might get oranges from Italy, get food. That is, they come to Greece, they make bases and everything they supply to eat and drink these thousands of five hundred, eight hundred take them from Italy. Why? You cannot put in a term and say, 'no, you guys, we give you everything, at least take the products from us'. That's not what you did either. I won't say about the port of Alexandroupolis. Listen, Minister, let's tell the truth in here. The basis has been for two reasons, the Dardanelles control, the Montre Treaty and, secondly, the control of pipelines in the region and most of all Russia. The Americans are sleeping and getting up with Russia's problem. What is Greece doing, the small, except honestly, Greece? Listening to the Americans, it has already done the Persians, Iranians, its enemies with the Patriots you are sending there, without taking anything and making the Russian actor enemy. What do I need to be an enemy with Russia? Why should I be hostile to Russia? I've put an embargo on her, I've made moves against her, I've sent an army to Norway. Norway? Christ and God bless you! We sent two F-16 to Norway. Greece sent two F-16 to Norway, to joint military exercises against Russia along with the Norwegians. I don't understand your logic. I really don't understand it! Let's go to reason. You said about the shelf logic. You told us America said so, Minister. Do you know how many more Americans have said? The problem is what they'll do in case anything happens, if anything happens, if anything happens, if it's wrong. I'm afraid you're not sure what they're gonna do. I will also list you two - three statements on Erdogan. He says Trump about Erdogan: "Erdogan has become my friend." "Productive and wonderful meeting with Erdogan is a very good friend of mine." "I like Turkey and I do very well with the President." That's what Trump, our friend, the American president. And the Prime Minister of the country comes out on the recent visit and says, indirectly, but clearly, that we in the Americans are certain. Look at the different approach. I say - to close here and not to take more time - for Article 3(1), and I read it self-evident for those who want to understand Greek, fellow Members of the New Democracy. "The supreme Greek officer placed in each of the facilities", listen, "easies" you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u117	All over the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u118	Wait a minute! ... will be called “Greek representative”.’ The senior Greek officer or general will be called "representative". Can I tell you something? Make a car yard, make a car dealership or bring it to one of the companies to make it a company representative with franchise. Is it possible to degrade the Greek officer with this choice? In fact, at least you're degrading him, you're humiliating him. One last question I would like the Minister to answer, and I imagine he will answer. Minister, have you been meeting secretly with ELIAMEP, with the people of ELMEP lately? Answer me. I want to know. Has there been a meeting with the ELMEP? Let me tell you their names. They're specific names, they're Mr. Zeppos, Mr. Rosakis, Mr. Tsukalis. Did you and the Prime Minister meet? Has this been a meeting? You're not answering. So there's been a meeting. My information is correct. Do you know who all these people are? They have a certain view, not of the real politician, pro-Turkish. Can I read you what they've said? Let me read to you what they have said, so we can close down here. So Mr. Rosakis condemned our country many times, among other things, for the Heavenly Arc and the Minority of Evros, who want to be called Turks. Let's go to another one. Let Rosaky go. Let's go to Mr. Zeppo. It speaks of twelve nautical miles, of Turkish rights in the Aegean, that Greece cannot have the entire continental shelf. Head of Mr. Papandreou's political office. Is that PASOK? I don't know. Commander of the NDP, Apostolidis to Simitis Government, sees no other choice, says, in addition to dialogue, negotiation and international arbitration. These are negative messages. How do you ask me for national understanding when you talk to people who are from 'give' rather than 'take'? How is it possible for me to consent to this little secret moth of people who - I will say directly, I am not saying that they are brokers or traitors - have a view given, speak of peace by sacrificing everything, even something that does not belong to them, the Aegean, to make peace? That's not peace. I'll tell you what's his name, Minister. Turkey reminds me of the wolf that's out of the mantle, who grows up and wants to eat sheep, because she's hungry. You'll give him a sheep. Is it an island, as the newspaper ‘TA NEWs’ said, or do I not know who said it? The Kastelorizo? She'll eat it. But it won't get enough. He wants another sheep and another sheep. In the end, my Minister, there will be no sheep left. He will eat the shepherd, eat you too, and in the end you will be completely alone to say "we want unity". Module with such policies cannot be achieved. Don't always listen to strangers, the Americans, what they tell you. Don't always listen to foreign countries. We were alone, alone and alone, to fight together, whether we agree or disagree, left or right. And by closing, I would mention a saying that Mr. Athanasios had said, if I am not mistaken, using another expression in the past: "The victory will be ours if he reigns in our hearts only the Greek. The friend of the strangers shall be a traitor.’ The Kapodistrias said that many years ago, so that we all remember them today and speak freely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u119	The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the JRC is not put on a chance basis. This does not mean that we are not taking into account each period, as today the escalation of Turkish aggression and the apparent further increase in intra-imperialist competition in the wider region. So by counting on all these factors, we will vote against the Greek-American agreement today. In fact, this unacceptable agreement you called it the defence government of the United States together. Nothing more fake than this title. In fact, you come here to justify the "thank the Americans" of the unfaithful Memorial of Simitis, to continue the upgrading of the Greek involvement in the imperialist designs, as reflected in the Tsipras governance, which, of course, you are all celebrating, and the current government and the Customization of SYRIZA, as well as the American Embassy and other civil servants, who, where they stand and where they find, repeat, in order not to forget, that the upgrading of relations with the US is also credited by Tsipras. We have no objections to this analysis, of course. It is a part of our Greek reality, which demonstrates that in the big issues, in the strategy of interests, a corrupt ruling class is today the government and the Civic Opposition. You are - to use a terminology related to your own - given and predictable for NATO, the United States, the European Union, their designs. This is because you both have the same compass, the doctrine that says that the more we give the United States, NATO, the better the country is protected, as you usually say, daily. This doctrine, however, has been bankrupt many more. You know that better than all of you who support this doctrine. What else does the signature of the illegal and unacceptable Turkish-libian pact show? What else does Pontius Pilate’s logic show, which is reproduced on every occasion on the other side of the Atlantic? And we will not stop reminding ourselves that this new agreement we are debating today has next door to the New Democracy seal and that of SYRIZA. I will only recall Tsipras' trip to the United States, the evilly good Trump, the launch of strategic dialogue with the US, with exclusive object of the most upgraded participation of Greece in the imperialist slaughterhouse. The extension of the US base for Souda and the long-standing operation of all the bases, which is now formally validating this agreement, followed by the extension of the US base for Souda. These are the American bases in Stefanovicio, the installation of drones in Larissa, in the port of Alexandroupolis, while it has not been denied that in infrastructure, such as Araxos, the work has been done to host even nuclear weapons. This dowry indeed left SYRIZA in New Democracy and the New Democracy, of course, continues with joy. After all, the New Democracy has known it for decades. Faithful friend and partner of the Americans and NATO, consistently and continuously, follows this policy, which the left-wing, radical forces have always denounced. None of us expected that the New Democracy would be appraised and changed to its international alliances. At least as far as we are concerned, we had no such delusion. The SYRIZA's attitude, however, is also causing the feeling and logic of our people, neighbouring peoples, who have suffered a great deal from the United States and NATO. Today, in fact, SYRIZA also causes for two further reasons: Firstly, it lifts the flag of supposedly exchanges, while the trees have understood what the United States is doing, after the United States of America's expressed strategy is to keep Turkey at all costs in NATO, to maintain nano-cohesion in the Eastern Mediterranean, cutting off any batches of Turkey-Russia that have been developed lately. If this does not happen, the danger is that Greece will be turned into a military spearhead against Turkey. If what they seek is to happen, it means that Turkey will receive such exchanges, which will certainly concern our country's sovereign rights. The current government, like the previous ones, agrees with this strategy. The second argument by SYRIZA is to propose a suspension of the vote on the agreement. And this is at least a double mockery, since it does not raise a question of suspending or suspending the bases, which will continue to operate normally in the Full House, doing the job that they were made. But let us ask ourselves: If, for example, the agreement is ratified later, after a few months, after a couple of years, the bases will not be war bastions? Aren't they going to keep being attack magnets? Will they not continue to sow the ruin and bring refugee flows? None of this will happen, and you all know it very well, and the government and the officers of the Civilian administration. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy Government, choose some dramatic tones to legalize this agreement. Above all, you are addressing the Greek people and not, of course, the Members in this House, because you have to convince the Greek people. The Greek people are buttoned and hesitant, until openly hostile to such actions, which undermine their security, peace and open the way, to become a slaughterhouse in our neighborhood. After all, as you are right to see, you yourself in the leaderships and in the MPs of the Anti-Population, the Greater and the Elassus, have no one to convince. You are already in agreement with almost all of them, with the exception of, of course, the members of the JRC. It is the people who need to see the reality well as it has been shaped and judged rigorously and with a clear mind what you are saying to him to accept, that is, his deepest and most direct involvement in imperialist murder plans. You say without gum "the more bases we have, the greater obstacles will enter Turkish aggression". If that is the case, how is the last three years old, which has indeed widened the American footprint in Greece, growing constantly, escalating Turkish aggression? Don't you know that NATO does not recognize borders in the Aegean? Do you not know that the USA, NATO, the European Union, has, for so many years, actually legitimised the invasion and occupation of naval Turkey in Cyprus? Do you see anything else, beyond all their different wishes, about Turkey's illegal drilling in the Cypriot EEZ? Make sure you don't know that Turkish provocation and aggression have very strong naval backs. You also say "the deal is defensive" and stuff like that. Who are you working for, really? And young children already know that the US has the most aggressive plans to curb their competitors' plans, namely Russia, China, Iran, others. These "smell" designs, like the one that has been spent for years in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, and the results of imperialist planning, are experienced in our country and with the tens of thousands of incubated refugees and migrants. In fact, we heard Members in the House saying that SYRIZA was negotiating with the US in favour of peace. Mercy! Of course, here last year he came to tell us that he puts Northern Macedonia to NATO, thereby honoring the memory of the Democratic Army fighters. The barrel, that is, unfortunately, has no bottom. You also tell us "the foundations protect Greece". But the other aspect of Greece's transformation into a vast American and naval camp is what you hide from the Greek people. Why don't you tell him clearly what officials from Russia or recently Iranian officials say, that the bases of the Americans and NATO where they exist - and in Greece, namely - are a retaliation target. They consider that hostile action is taking place from their own territory to their own countries and that is how they deal with them. Is that really the protection that these foundations offer to our people? NATO bases don't protect. On the contrary, they only target the country, the Greek people. In fact, the Greek people are targeted and paid. At a time when more than EUR 4 billion a year for NATO needs, you come with this today's agreement and furthermore relieve the landing, ellinism, and even the base upgrade work. You say, of course, "we get know-how from the United States about the Hellenic Armed Forces". We see something else. To be granted military equipment and personnel of the Armed Forces in Saudi Arabia under the responsibility of the Government. Really, what do Greece's sovereign rights are at stake in Riyadh and Saudi Arabia's deserts? We also see Greek french frenches being granted patrols to the Straits of Ormuz, being "frozen" participation with personnel of the country's Armed Forces and Libya. And that is what you all do, the Euro-Atlantic archers, since SYRIZA urges the government to find, he says, the appropriate formula to send forces out of the border, as long as it is under the official, standard, at least, cover of the UN, the European Union and even NATO. And that in the name of the Left and the Progress, as if you had to go on disgusting racing values and ideals. At the same time, according to the text of the Agreement, each camp may be converted into an annex of the American Armed Forces whenever required. We ask again: what are the infrastructures and personnel of the Armed Forces doing outside borders? Not only should it be sent, but all the staff who are already serving on fifteen other imperialistic missions outside the border should also be returned. If something, of course, seems to be closing, it is the deal with the American arms industry. But, here again, you are lying, because upgrading the F-16 is being done with the aim of involving combat aircraft in the naval plans and in the United States' foreign policy. This was said by the American Pentagon when it decided to upgrade the Greek F-16. Do you know better than the American government, which claims that the upgrading of what the Greek people pay are serving the foreign policy of the Americans and NATO? Now the new "data of the nation" is going to become the F-35, without even being given if they can effectively contribute to the defence of the country, as the experts are concerned about the issue and, of course, the exorbitant cost, which the people will pay again. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the Aegean, the Mediterranean, the new Greek American agreement confirms that this is not only a fundamental issue in terms of armaments, but also, above all, the orientation of these armaments in order to better serve the country's role in the context of US planning. You will tell us that the JRC's proposal leads to almost isolation. Known, old and pounded. We really ask you: is it or is it not real isolation that you do not supply the weapon systems you need as a people, as a country, but what is dictated by NATO and the European Union? Is it or is it not isolated that the Greek Defence Industry has sabotaged within the framework of Euro-Union policy? The statements made by the Natian, American, German and government officials themselves confirm that, if something happens today, a military engagement, an incident, we will again be on our own. And even this is admitted by officials from the current government and from the previous government. In essence, all of these describe exactly this isolation. You're also saying you're in a diplomatic marathon. We don't doubt it. We do not, however, share the overlying assessments that Turkey, as you say, is isolating itself, because you know very well that Turkey's bourgeois order does its parts around. You also let it be understood that at the critical moment there will be American intervention for declining. Didn't we have that kind of intervention in Imia again? But at the end of the day, the three hero Greek officers, unfortunately, did not escape, while the US intervention at the time was the catalyst for the Imian crackdown. The Madrid Agreement followed, of course, by a PASOK government, in which Turkey's legitimate and vital interests in the Aegean were recognised. Now to our people, do you put the dilemma 'participation or conflict', 'compatibility or involvement'? We call it clear. And that dilemma is forged. Every side of it has dangerous consequences for the peace, the sovereign rights and the life of the Greek people. Any collision, any incident of engaging can function as a catalyst for a collapsing agreement with Natolian umbrella and the pistol at the front of our people, with a retreat to our vital sovereign interests. Also, the compromise, the co-existence, the concession of some sovereign rights, so that it does not involve and incident, which are already being spoken about by New Democracy, SYRIZA, other journalists, not only does it not guarantee you peace, stability and security, but unfortunately it only brings the sperm of the next war conflict and even larger scale than a simple episode. Today, whatever agreement and compromise is made, there are specific data which we must not underestimate at all or, much more, hide them from the Greek people, that is to say that, firstly, any such agreement - the compromise you say - is made between competitive economic interests of capitalist states. Secondly, any agreement will determine which groups and which of the competing energy blogs will milk this wealth belonging to the people of the region. Thirdly, the deal of the deck, anyway, will leave some losers in an environment in which the competitions of large players are increasingly escalating internationally. And don't pretend you don't understand what we mean. After all, you see what is happening these years and now in Libya. Fourthly, in any event, no one can rule out that any military incident, even by accident, will be included in the course of an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the new version of reassurance is the infamous appeal to the Court of Justice in The Hague. But here too, the traps are too many. We all remember, for example, how the Hague Court legalised the war in Yugoslavia, the independence of the Kosovo protectorate, in total contrast with international law and interpreting it completely arbitrarily. All this means that the current international framework, from which unfortunately it is not possible to deviate from the decisions of the various international courts, is inserted every time major political interests, the designs of powerful capitalist states that promote their own pursuits and not, of course, the law of the people. For the appeal to The Hague, we all know that it is a prerequisite to sign a first promise between Greece and Turkey. But what will this promise provide for? It will record the positions of both sides and the Turkish Government will be able to put all its claims to the Aegean, in the wider region, thus creating earlier. Unfortunately, under the responsibility of the country's ruling class, all the current governments and their parties, Greece has been put into the good shape of these designs, militant in the US, NATO, and the European Union's plans. You are turning people into a fire in wars, with the aim of the most - very much - of gaining some shares, a handful of monopolies and business groups in the country. Developments show that today the Greek engagement is going a step further, with the mission of personnel and media from the Greek Armed Forces out of the border and the involvement of Greece in the military cycle mainly of Russia, with the country's active militarisation in the US plans to limit Europe's energy supply from Russia and to provide energy from other sources to take advantage of the US pursuits. Part of this puzzle is the agreement on EastMed. Let a word about the other regional ally of the country, the State of Israel, which is bleeding over time the Palestinian people and stealing their homeland, their territories and at the same time challenges the sovereign rights of the Palestinian Authority and of Lebanon, by writing International Law to the oldest of their shoes, where Erdogan and the United States write it. We particularly want to denounce the American plan for the Palestinians today, because not only does it not secure an independent Palestinian state, but it perpetuates and shields the Israeli occupation. This is a dangerous development, part of a more general plan, with unacceptable arrangements in the region against the people. The Greek governments have so far been responsible for the fact that they have not made the necessary recognition of the independent Palestinian state, despite the unanimous decision of the Greek Parliament, at the same time that they have constantly upgraded their strategic cooperation with Netanyahu, the murderers of the Palestinian people. Furthermore, the Greek people must know that through EastMed's signature Greece is going deeper into this controversy. Really, what were the scenarios being carried out by the Greek air force? What exactly was the target? Again, we warn and warn - and this is the Stepma - that the roads of oil are painted with people's blood. The pipelines are antagonism magnets and wars. You are asking for solidarity in the plans of the few of this country for more deeper involvement in world wars and wars, which only find the Greek people lost. We are addressing the Greek people: it is not too late to be separated from parties and governments and foreign alliances in their own interests. He has the power to condemn and reject you. In this we call on all the people united to give their struggle. Now we need decapitation from these dangerous plans, from the imperialist associations, from the interests of the oligarchy of wealth, so that we can really defend the country's sovereign rights. This is a difficult road, of course, but it is the only hope that our country will be able to establish relations with all the countries and peoples on the basis of mutual benefit, in order to exploit the wealthy sources on the basis of ensuring popular prosperity and the environment and not on the profits and plans of certain energy colostrums. We are voting against the agreement because we do not want new Iraq, new Afghanistan, new Syria, new Libya, new Yugoslavia, new Yemen, new Palestine, new Ukraine, new Cyprus, new Imia, new coups, new refugee boats, new slaughterhouses with victims and our people and all the neighbouring people. Our heart and soul are out there in the House, in the Constitution with thousands of protesters at this time singing about solidarity, the peace of the peoples and not about the imperialists' war plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u121	It is called in Stepma, on behalf of the Change Movement, the Parliamentary Representative Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u122	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at this very difficult time, at this juncture that each Greek and every Greek are concerned about and thinks, at this juncture in which the National Delegation is called upon to ratify this defensive agreement with the United States, it is really inappropriate and injurious to deal with hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens with the situation which has created in the football sector an inappropriate, unwise policy on the part of the government, which, as much as it attempts to correct the bad texts, is worsening them. I wish you well, but that doesn't seem to be easy. I hope I'm wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time, in many years I have followed the country's foreign policy, which I found at the National Foreign Policy Council - and I have once again told the National Representation - six political parties that constitute our current parliamentary system being offered to the government to support the country's course at this difficult time. So at this juncture we are here today, discussing this agreement. What makes it up? Many colleagues have made relevant references and the Change Movement will highlight them. The great problem of immigration. We were here, in this Chamber, without many colleagues, discussing legislative initiatives on the part of the Ministry of Defence on police and military cooperation. We supported this effort. I, with the Minister's permission, toured about 40 miles [40 km] of the land border and found that this cooperation is going extremely well. And from the policy of Christos Papoutsis and the 2010-2011 Papandreou government, now, from November onwards, the obstacle to illegal irregular immigration is expanding, but the big problem is at sea and there the problems are open. I agree with what many parties have said, and perhaps we - perhaps first of all - that in the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence, behind closed doors, we must discuss this particular issue. I would remind the Members of the Committee on European Affairs and Home Affairs that what we discussed with Mr Margaritis Swives a few days ago, when it was recorded, and now it is an estate of all delegation, that the problem of re-promotion and its prohibition arises from the 1951 Geneva Treaty, is not a matter of the European Union or of a bilateral or micropolymer. So the problem is a big one, and even though we - and I think all the parties - have offered the government the means to cooperate, we have seen the reason for initiative and with the content that the outcome can be seen. As regards the Libyan agreement, the irregular, illegal, irresponsible, one cannot convince me that both at the end of the previous government and at the beginning of your own, the problem was underestimated. I have the information as now of Mr Apostolakis' Minister of Defence in my mind and my ears in January and February 2019 on an agreement that is imminent and that Greece had to take its measures. The months have passed, we have seen it as a fact and the activity has now begun to deal with the problem in this context and with Russia which has given rise to the genuinely precarious attitude of Mr Kotzia's former Foreign Minister - and this. Furthermore, on the occasion of this, Mrs Genomema has suggested many times - Minister, I have already brought it to you - that, on the issues that we are now discussing with regard to Turkey with a peak in The Hague, we have allowed as a political system the most prosperous dialogue in recent years. Whatever you want to hear. Let me say that you have a responsibility for this. Because if the Council had taken place, the relevant steps taken by the country at political level could have been taken, they would have already been and have not been. You're even listening to politicians, I'd say sloppy, too many contradictory things. But that's no time for that. The national line is based on our position in the 1970s. Perhaps after the Montego Bay Treaty extended our spectrum in relation to the exclusive economic zone. However, it is not the issue that is being discussed in the public space. There is no superficiality that has not been heard. And because there has been no agreement at the level of political leaders, the ground is fertile and opposition is not responsible for this. It's the government's responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the environment in our foreign policy is constantly getting worse. Most of them here are aware of the cyber attacks that Greece accepts, the cyber attacks, and even as far as we are aware, in the context of a wider plan, the "sea turtle", and no one can ignore that from 2018 to 2019 the cyber attacks have increased and the states that have accepted them are many. Last and last of all, ours with the attacks against HETH on Crete, as well as government websites. I would like to make a point from a definition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the hybrid threats that emphasise the exploitation of the three points of a country and the creation of ambiguity as to the origin and size of the risks, but also the provoking of generalised political instability. Here too, there have been problems, new problems, new for Greece. For NATO, problems known for the European Union for years. Finally, in the context of these difficulties, as deleted from recent political developments, we have this defence cooperation with the United States which we are called upon to ratify. I am using as my first phrase a truly excellent wording of the new Chief of HNDGS of Mr. Konstantinos Florus: "World preparation is the only way to lasting peace." We all sign it, I believe. That's exactly the way things do. The opinion of the Change Movement is that this agreement meets both our diplomatic needs and obligations and in relation to our defence needs. It touches on two issues, namely, where defence and foreign policy really exists. And it is no reason for opposition that the previous government was preparing it too. It is a matter of emphasising a harmonisation of the key members of the political system on common needs. This is for good, it's not bad for opposition. In those voices - today they have been heard - criticising the extension of this defence cooperation to other parts of the country, for example, in Alexandroupolis, I would like to make a point and ask a relevant question: would this agreement of the United States on the development of the port of Alexandroupolis and our establishments there at military level have been in the port of Inez, Turkey? Would we prefer that? Do we not like that cooperation with this country is taking place in Greece where problems are too many? I believe that as a positive example, the recovery of the shipwreck at the port of Alexandroupolis, which offers opportunities, is a very good example to support our political positions. However, in our criticism of the government - and I think Mrs Gennamata today - it was very clear that any such agreement that serves strategies on both sides - is clear to us the strategy - we are used to in the decades to combine them with some exchanges. I understand the diplomatic and defensive exchanges. Nor am I too much am my party expressing too much positions, but not on old methods, Mr Treasury. Not in old methods of exchange, for example ships that we do not need, as you said correctly, or other weapons systems that cost us the modernisation and then we cannot use them and use them. However, in the areas you mentioned, in the technological field, could the agreement itself not have provisions for such balances and exchanges? The value of use that we give to our own facilities, again, is clear, but should it not be combined with the exchanges in our education about technology, our defence industry, which is suffering? Many times - five years now - with Mr Vitsa and the ministers of the previous government responsible for the defence industry, we said here that an end must be made to this downhill of our defence industry. Is this not an opportunity, since this is not the end, with this kind of cooperation with the United States going on there too? Ladies and gentlemen, exaggeration at this juncture is the worst counselor ever. Anyone who opposes such issues on the basis of exaggeration does not offer the country, but removes it from the country. We were given the opportunity as a political party and with the Ambassadors' agreement, with which we did not agree, to show character and seriousness. We were not inviting protests and prostitutions, nor hitting the ministers, even though we were confronted with the then government that wanted to politically murder our officials. However, we had our minds at home, in the country, and we had kept outside confrontation and by the leaking of information that we had been discussing with them. And now we are holding the same attitude. We are not speculating at your expense, but we also want you, in addition to the attitude of the Foreign Minister - I verify what he has said - to inform us at Council level and at parties level - that is true - we want the Prime Minister to take the responsibility of formulating a policy on which, as far as possible, all parties in the political system will be involved in dealing with at least after 1996. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u123	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me quote what I feel to be the dominant feeling today in the vast majority of Greek society. And the dominant feeling is concern. The great majority of the Greek people are concerned about developments. Believe me, this concern is political, social, national. This concern is sincere. It's not about parties. We are concerned, not only because in the economy the omens are not the best possible, as they had been made clear last year, not only because in society, the government is applying with study and brutality - I would say - a policy that favours the upper layers and even compresses the lower layers, not only because in the refugee you are in front of the deadlocks that you have created and unfortunately with you in the same dead end is the country and in great turmoil, not only because in health, education, the social state, the wounds that you cause on a daily basis affect the lives and safety of millions of people, but also because, on a daily basis, you prove your weakness and your last inability to manage problems. And finally, instead of solving problems, you are having, you are creating even more. You know, what's our people saying, watching the sensational developments in the last few days? It says: Here, you cannot divide two donkeys straw, you are unable to handle in the interests of social normality and justice some powerful money and the media, here, have made them hampered by a controversy of football and lead to inappropriate divisions at a critical time for the place, will you manage a crisis - the non-generating - on our national issues? Will you manage, that you can't manage the football players, Mr. Erdogan? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The greatest cause of citizens' concern is foreign policy. There's no doubt about that. And what he sees you do on other issues more easily than foreign policy, obviously, are magnifying this concern. Two months ago, in this Chamber, I told you that the policy of inertia, of molding our neighbours, of a policy that you have been conducting for months against Turkey and which your Government representative, eloquently, expressed - and we had, in fact, opposed it - was an erroneous and dangerous policy. Because this policy contributes to the depopulation of Turkey in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. It contributes to the worsening, rather than improving, of the situation in the refugee. I told you, however, that we are not going to pursue a sterile opposition to national issues, as you did in the previous period, and in particular, to the question of the Prespecies Agreement which you are now applying and honour - and you are right to do - but also to the refugee question. In the face of Turkey's most aggressive move towards our country over the past twenty years, namely the conclusion of this illegal Turkish- Libyan pact, I stressed that we must at least agree on the important parties - I wish the parties - in a common national strategy. And one of the most crucial elements of this strategy, in our opinion, was - and it is - that we should not be given any given to anyone, nor to our allies, whether they are Americans or Europeans. I remember very well, Mr Mitsotakis, that you also responded positively to your speech in the budget if I am not mistaken. You said that you too endorse this view and that Greece should not be considered as given to anyone. That's a nice word. I wonder, however, if there is even a Greek citizen who has attended your visit to the White House today who believes that you have applied these words here with a veil, especially when you announced to the American President that Greece is a faithful and predictable ally. What else does that mean? These extremely critical moments for our country, if not that we are taken for granted, when you have even rushed to the same visit, before you see President Trump adopt the American positions for the 5G, at a time when the European Union and even the United Kingdom are announcing the participation of Chinese companies in the competitions in question, when you have rushed, alone throughout Europe, to support, publicly applaud, the execution of the Iranian General Sulei by American forces in Iraq, a decision which the same United States is having difficulty in supporting under international law and, above all, when you tell us today that Greece will send firearms from Patriot and more than a hundred officials from the Armed Forces in Saudi Arabia and indeed, without any umbrellas from the United Nations, the European Union or any other international organisation to which we belong. I wonder: What are our missiles doing, purchased from the fallout of the Greek people to protect the Greek islands, in Saudi Arabia? What are Greek soldiers doing in Saudi Arabia? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have been involved in adventures that have gone beyond it and which have changed the doctrine of foreign policy and defence that the country has had for decades. I asked you both in private and in public to ask the President of the Republic to convene the Council of Civilian Heads. Mrs. Gennamas has asked you, too, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u125	Twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u126	Twice. I have therefore asked you to convene the Council of Political Heads to discuss a national strategy. You refused. I asked you not to table this bill we are discussing today, i.e. to freeze it, until we have substantial commitments from our most powerful allies, from the United States, to support if our neighbours are going to increase their challenges even further. And that - if you remember - I asked you before you even left for the United States. And of course you did the exact opposite. You are voting for the agreement without any substantial assurance of the attitude of the United States at the difficult times. And with courage Mr Erdogan himself announces that the difficult times are coming. That's what he says. In other words, what else did you have to do, Mr Mitsotakis, to show the United States exactly what you said the country should not show to its allies, that is, that we are certain. What else were you supposed to do? This bill, in our view, should not have even been tabled, not put to the vote today. It shouldn't have been submitted until the assurances that I know we're all seeking, we all want. There's nobody here who doesn't want them. Of course, your intention to vote without guaranteeing these assurances makes you responsible for any unfavourable development which, of course, we all want to avoid. You say to us, of course, and that is your main argument: 'But are you not the ones who negotiated this agreement?' Yes, of course it's us. It was the SYRIZA government that promoted the upgrading of our defence and diplomatic relations with the United States. Like the government of SYRIZA, it was actually the country's geopolitical role that went on to upgrade, when we took over in 2015 when we were in an unprecedented crisis, which had implications for the country's geopolitical dynamics, not only in the economy. We were the ones who opened the talks on this bill. We did not, however, because we are loyal and predictable allies, as you said to Mr Trump. We have made it clear from the outset to our allies that the upgrading of our cooperation is based on the convergence of our national interests and each step must have mutual benefit. In this context, too, we established the strategic dialogue in December 2018. In this context, the United States' clear support for the EastMed pipeline was recorded in the same month. In this context, the form was established three plus one with Cyprus, Israel and the United States, first in Ber Sheba, then in Jerusalem, with the presence of Pompeo. In this context the U.S. Senate was promoted by the "EastMed Act", which for the first time speaks with such clarity about the violations of Greece's sovereign rights on the part of Turkey and, above all, provides for the abolition of the arms embargo in Cyprus. In this context we upgraded F16 on privileged terms. And then, of course, ladies and gentlemen, there was no Turkish - Libyan pact and then we did not have a Trump who, when asked about Libya in front of the Greek Prime Minister, responded that the issue of Libya was going to be discussed with Mr Erdogan and Mrs Merkel. We didn't have a Trump like that then. For us it is clear that President Trump for a number of reasons, it is not the time, today he has decided to strengthen his cooperation with the Turkish President on various fronts in the region. It is also clear that we are at a very difficult time, as is apparent from its plan for the Palestinian and the reactions that this plan creates. It seems that it is exacerbating the prospects for a fair solution, rather than improving them. It is also clear that the European Union, unfortunately, fails to meet the major challenges of our region. But for all these reasons, I would say that today is more necessary than ever a common national strategy that will bring the country back to the orbit of an active foreign policy. Common strategy that you deny. There are, of course, many of them: But are there any conditions, if we disagree? Of course there are, I say. For example, our agreement to deepen Greece's cooperation with France. Like, for example, the stable position of the country that we had - I see - you want to continue for open channels of dialogue with the neighbouring country, for the resumption of the exploratory talks, when conditions of course allow it. Because it's not easy to ask for reopen exploratory conversations when that behavior exists. And for recourse to The Hague under conditions, if the talks fail, and if this appeal relates to both the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, not only to one of the two, and of course to the continental shelf and maritime zones and not to other requirements, in particular, requirements of sovereignty. But I would like to say quite clearly that, while there are conditions for a common national strategy, this cannot be achieved, even if you decide at some point to sit at the table - which you deny - and to talk about, if you do not stop intervening everywhere, how much given how much the government is in our foreign policy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And not only should you be speaking, but also acting as a given and not only in relation to the United States, but also to the European Union, where a few days ago you consented to the renewal of the operation 'Sofia'. Right, I'll say you consented. But did you ask for something on this, for your consent? Did you request anything from the two countries that are primarily interested in this operation, Italy and Germany? For Italy, you know too, Minister, and if I'm wrong, the Chief will fix me, I'm here to hear the dialogue, listen to the counterproblems. I am referring to Italy and Germany, because it is Italy that has not finally come to attend the signature of EastMed, because we could have gone a year before we had gone to the signature, but we waited to get the Italian Prime Minister to remove the disagreements of one of the government partners. He didn't come in after all, and it could be a return. But I am also referring to Germany, which did not invite Greece, and called Congo to the Conference on Libya in Berlin. The same, of course, is also about the question of extending the sanctions that we won in June with President Anastasiades in the area of the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus, and now our strategy should be to build the necessary alliances within the European Union so that they can extend to the area south of Crete, namely the Greek EEZ, if there is illegal action there. SYRIZA, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as a patriotic responsibility, cannot today vote in favour of this agreement for all these reasons, because the conditions necessary for it to be a good thing for the interests of the country are not met today. We disagree vertically with the logic of the ally you promote. So we are voting today'representations' and we hope, Mr Mitsotakis, at least at this very last moment and after all these diplomatic deadlocks in which our country has been in the last few months, that you will revise your position on the matter of understanding. Heavy word, consensus. Well, at least there's a consultation. You need to sit at the dialogue table to discuss a serious national strategy for Greece of the 21st century and to address the major challenges facing its foreign policy. A policy that must protect our sovereign rights and re-establish a pillar of peace and stability in the region rather than trying to hide the government's political failure and diplomatic failures behind extreme right-wing and warlike statements. Not you, or Mr. Dendias, who is next to you, but other ministers, at the same time. They are announcing tragedies, like the one I read today, of floating dams that are supposed to keep the refugees out of the Greek islands. But can you say such things? Who's telling you this? So easy is it to solve the problem of refugee flows with floating dams? What are the boats coming, cocks blocking the floating dams? Who's telling you this? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If you continue to policy on critical international issues in terms of communication and fireworks for the interior, you will soon not be taken seriously abroad. Of course, do not think that we are taking you very seriously internally, especially in recent years, with all the comic-trags that are taking place in the field of professional football. Let me close by saying a few words about them. They do not, of course, at least have anything to do with our national issues and I hope that they will never have any confidence in you. But they have to do with credibility. They are, however, related to the ability, seriousness, openness and openness of a government which manages critical national issues at the same time. Allow me today, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Mitsotakis, to go a little against the current of the last few days. I do not see Mr Aygeakis here, 'the ghost that has been deceiving over the field of football and the country in the last few days', as Eukleidis Tsakalotos rightly said. But let me go against the current and express my solidarity and solidarity with Mr Augarian. Because, quite simply, for these disgusting manipulations - let us not be foolish - Mr Augarians does not have the responsibility. This is the responsibility of Mr Mitsotakis and only Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There is no, then, Ausgeias. There's Mr. Mitsotakis and his final state. Didn't you tell us that you want with this final state all the crucial decisions to be made by you? Now why are you throwing the muzzuri on your State Secretary? Or did you know? You're the ones who decide the criticals. So you're personally responsible for this mess you've created in the football field. And you are responsible for why your involvement with the grandchildren who supported you to be elected led to these unprecedented acrobatics. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you know, it costs not only football, it costs the country, the society, the justice. You have to take that responsibility today. For you were aware of the fact that you were not the one to advise Mr Augias to replace two members of the Committee on Professional Sports who took this decision and, indeed, to replace them without, as the law that we voted for, the approval of the Parliament's Committee on Cultural Affairs. He refused to bring your choices and choices, obviously, in the Committee on Educational Affairs to be approved and replaced these two members in this five-member committee, as he knew it was an ongoing critical case for Greek football. Whatever decision that committee would take, she was drugged. It's like changing the referee to 90 minutes and the new referee to whistle a 93', delays. Whether he whistles it or doesn't whistle it, he's gonna get a bite. And you get beaten now, and you're welcome to eat. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So that was your choice. It wasn't Mr. Ausgakis's. As also in Maximos, it was written, according to the press, but also on the basis of common sense, the famous tweet by Mr Aygeakis, on the night of the decision that erupted this storm. And, of course, it was your idea of this amendment, which, in a few hours' time, you have, under the state of panic and the reactions, created an amendment that exacerbated the situation rather than normalizing it, as you initially believed. So your government, Mr Mitsotakis, has proved impotent and powerless in the face of an internal crisis that she has created. But I stress that. Football is not, above all, a sign of inability and insufficiency. It also raises a bigger issue, that you are unable to pay back the bills you signed with the election complex. There are many of these notes in many directions! That's why, no matter how hard you're trying, you won't balance things. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You know what? Our people have a proverb that says 'whoever mixed with pie is eaten by chickens'. And you guys got a lot mixed up with pie and you keep getting mixed up. In this way, the evil you do is to upgrade the fewer people to co-formulators of politics, social life, practices, ideology. This is the biggest damage you have caused in the country and is the result of a moral and political degeneration, which leads society to a degeneration. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our view is that according to the way you handled this case, one thing is proven. You're not worthy of trust. I can assure you that this has begun to become apparent to the vast majority of the Greeks. In particular, Mr Mitsotakis, after your last night's resentment by the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, who broke party discipline, I honestly understand that you must have a difficult time. The Prime Ministers, you know, in recent years - and I have been among them - have spent difficult hours, indeed, on the requirements of lenders in excessive things relating to memoranda or national agreements. You're going through a tough time for football, Mr. Mitsotakis. The sitter and his fate, depending on his abilities!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u127	The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u128	Mr. Tsipras, I prefer to spend difficult hours on football, rather than unnecessarily referendums, bank closures and how you led the country to the edge of the cliff! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If I judge at least the interview you have given, once again, with sadness and concern about the situation in which you have brought the country, yes, we are all going through difficult hours. But we have more serious things, Mr Tsipras, than football to deal with in this country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that at some point is good to see and stop every time you take the floor to present a picture of the country that you can only imagine in your own mind. You started your speech by saying that Greek citizens are concerned. I will not disagree with you that there is, in fact, a diffuse concern about the situation on external issues and the refugee - immigration. It makes perfect sense, we have spoken many times in this Chamber and I will come back and then again, the fact that today the country is facing an uproar in foreign policy, which obliges us to deal with these issues much more and more systematically. But, Mr Tsipras, there is another feeling in Greek society. There is a sense of optimism and a sense of trust. Because, you know, Mr Tsipras, if the situation in Greece was as bad as you described it, the New Democracy would not have taken double the election result in all polls. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I forgot, however, "There is not one in a million chance of losing from Mr.Mitsotakis." That's what you said before the elections and you're still locked in, unfortunately, in your blurry world that only sees things through lenses that deform reality. I will start my position by giving some answers to the soccer issues that you have referred to in a quite disgraceful way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u129	Don't worry about football.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u130	No, I'm also dealing with football, but football is not the first priority of Greek society or the most important problem facing the country today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But it is an issue that needs to be discussed. And the last few days have actually surfaced with a miserable news. I, too, noted with sadness returning from my meetings with President McCron in Paris and with the President of the European Council, Michel, in Brussels. Unfortunately, at the time when the country is internationally recovering its credibility - I imagine that you cannot question this when for the first time the country borrows with fifteen-year bonds at a rate of less than 2%, when it is upgraded by international rating agencies and when there is an unprecedented positive attitude of international economic capital towards Greece with many investment initiatives for our country - the time being, when the country is recovering credibility in the economy, while the country is plummeting on the path of progress, is indeed being hit abroad by a football vendetta. It is, in fact, a business and personal rivalry, which, after entering the courts, is now threatening to spread to society as well, even in terms of geography. These are not new phenomena, Mr. Tsipras. Let's be honest here. At least twenty years are being shaken by such events and no government has been able to deal with them with the necessary courage and efficiency, and neither is your government. Let's not get into his conversation today who used to hang out with who's intertwined. I do not want to remember any statements of factors when you were in the government, nor your own selective relationships. Let's just put that aside. Let us agree in this Chamber that the light Greece of the 21st century cannot be imprisoned in a gray tidal. It is our duty, therefore, not to allow social life to be turned into a football arena, to reject any divisional plan and not to allow any fight of private interests to cover the daily personal battle that each Greek citizen gives to live better, to advance. Yesterday the government adopted a legislative regulation to alleviate the reactions from an opinion, not a decision, of the Committee on Professional Sport. According to the new provision, the illegality of a group will now lead to the punishment, but not to its invasion. So I ask: do you agree or disagree with this provision? That is, then, the first question that we ask the Civic Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u131	He didn't ask you the cash. It's a rhetorical question. Everybody responds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u132	We are therefore not talking about an athletic arrangement, but about an intervention for tuna to fall. After all, sporting justice will be dealt with. We have, however, decided - I personally - that a football conflict cannot evolve into society. That is why I, first of all, dared to remove a MEP who has acted not as a representative of the people, but as a supporter of a single club. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The state has worked on social criteria, rather than follow-up, and compassed the unity of the citizens, disgustingly dissatisfiing voices, such as that the country will be cut in two, blood spilled, the Greeks will be shared in north and south. Faced with this situation that restores to our minds all old terms, such as pimps and complications, you just silence. The other political forces did not propose what, in essence, they opted for abstention. Perhaps that is why the government's moderate approach to collect fanatical fires from both sides, because it was probably the only necessary and necessary one. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems, however, that some have taken our intention as weakness. Thus, some insist that they transfer their differences from the stadiums to society. Some insist that they continue to use fanatic armies, threatening even MPs, representatives of the Greek people, to convert media into fanatical liars, poisoning public opinion with cheap slogans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u133	Please be quiet. Mr. Tsipras was not interrupted by a second. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u134	Moreover, it is well known and recorded in all public opinion surveys, the responsibility primarily for the factors and, secondly, the state for the catalyst of Greek football. I will personally do what my conscience imposes in the social interest. That is why today I am warning those who dynamize social normality to forget their plans. The government and parliament have a way of protecting society and will respond properly. Sport is health, communication, entertainment. There's to unite and not separate people. After all, as I said at the beginning, yes, football is important, but the reduced taxes, most jobs, the good hospitals, the good schools are much more important than football. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, in this case, I think that behind a big problem, a time-consuming problem, there is also a great opportunity. This opportunity I would like all those responsible for the teams to take advantage of it in a lasting effort to reach agreement and joint decisions with the responsibility of both FIFA and UEFA. Otherwise, Greek clubs will be excluded from every international organization and their owners will be excluded from their many revenues. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] While, in the event that this sick climate has continued for a long time, we will have to stop Super League immediately, because it is better to have no championship than to have this championship, which we have today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In particular, the Government will address the highest level, the leadership of the World and European Football Federation, FIFA and UEFA. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, you may agree to some of the things we propose. Be patient. The presidents of the two federations will be personally invited to draw up a memorandum with us. Yes, a memorial to upload and reboot the Greek football. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And this time, Mr Tsipras, the word, because this type of agreement - and it is your fault - does not scare you, Mr Tsipras, because we have lived everywhere, except where there was a real need for them to be implemented. Because, a memorandum means rules and international surveillance, which in our case, as it turns out, must also be introduced here from global sporting experience. With international support, therefore, and with technical assistance, the reorganisation of the sport will begin. And if the factors themselves - and I think I was very clear in the time frame that I have given - do not participate in this self-clearing effort, they will be forced themselves, with their own responsibility, to suffer loss of revenue and prestige. And they will themselves, before their fans and fans, bear the burden of expulsion of their associations from European struggles. This initiative will come to build on a number of measures which are undoubtedly moving in the right direction. The institution of foreign referees, the VAR despite its problems, are tools that we supported when we were in Anti-Policy, they are moving in the right direction, but it is unfortunately not enough to be able to tackle the Greek football problem drastically. We will have the opportunity for all of this and when we visit and visit us by UEFA and FIFA managers, say much more than next week. We are all responsible for this. We are not hiding behind the self-interest in football when social peace and social cohesion are at stake. They recognize all the accomplices on this slippery road that they will suffer the consequences of their choices. Mr Tsipras, I now come to the issue of today's debate, to the defence cooperation that we are signing and which is being ratified today. I was listening to you speaking and you did give me the impression that you are trying to make an opposition only for the sake of the opposition. I have told you many times too in this Chamber - and we have had a number of debates on foreign policy issues, I have told you at our private meeting - that I have not actually diagnosed any significant differences in the central directions of foreign policy. I think that this is positive, it is a conquest for the country, a conquest for the political system. After all, I am also being conveyed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs from the discussions that are taking place at the Foreign Policy Council level. There are no substantial differences and differences at present. And I must tell you, Mr Tsipras, that when I went to the United States, I used this cross-party consensus as proof of the country's stability in foreign policy choices. I have talked about the eighty-degree turn you have made since you took over the country's government, how you have forgotten the slogans of American murderers, the marches to the American Embassy, the slogans against Israel and you have adapted to the hard world of geopoliticalism, recognising the need to deepen the strategic alliance with the United States and the need for the country to upgrade the level of strategic relations with Israel. Suddenly, I am returning from the United States and I hear SYRIZA saying that "we cannot vote for the ratification of the defence cooperation agreement, because something has changed and if we do so we will appear...", allegedly, how you said it, "...predictable and given. So we cannot vote for this agreement, because we cannot be taken for granted and predictable in foreign policy."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u135	You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u136	Look, Mr. Tsipras. This is an agreement that you had negotiated. No, you've just negotiated it, you've practically put it into practice. Many of the forecasts of the agreement, which now come and are being ratified and have legal effect, such as, for example, the operation of the drones base in Larissa or the exploitation of the port of Alexandroupolis, were already under way by your own government and were rightly launched, Mr Tsipras. So you've already done all this. It's not that you had it negotiated, you did it! Since 2018 it has been working! So who are you laughing at here? And what ears are you going to pete again? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I imagine - if I understood correctly and would like to clarify - that you do not disagree with the core of the agreement. Isn't that right? The agreement is good because you have obviously negotiated it and you have implemented it. So the agreement is good, but we must not ratify it now, because we must send a strong message of determination to the other side of the Atlantic that Greece is not a given and therefore does not ratify an agreement, which we consider to be beneficial to our national interests! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is good to have the Americans in Alexandroupolis, it is good to strengthen our own potential, because we will have some drones on a base in Larissa. Don't do that, because the Americans will be afraid of us if we tell them we don't sign the deal! That's what you're telling us about. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is what you recommend to the Greek Government, and that is what you consider to be a proper foreign policy, a responsible foreign policy. Yes, it is! I told the United States that it is good to be predictable, because all alliances, you know, Mr. Tsipras, are based on the concept of predictability. You were unpredictable in the first half of 2015 and we saw where you led us! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I think that predictability in foreign policy is a great advantage. How much more, when it is the steadfastness of a relationship, which has time-consuming features. I would remind you that this agreement is the update of an agreement which was first signed in 1990. And for us who also have an interest in what had become historical in the 1980s, we remember how much foreign policy is being entangled when we use it for internal consumption and say "the bases of death" to finally stay the bases of death and become the different strife of foreign policy in the 1980s by PASOK and Andreas Papandreou. So you come and tell us that, look, we do not want to sign this agreement, not because it is a bad deal, but because we have not received enough guarantees. We have a provocative Turkey and we want more guarantees from the United States in exchange for the agreement that we are signing. Well, I would like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, only a few things and statements, which have been made by the US authorities in recent weeks, in recent months. Statement of 15 January 2020: ‘Unlike what Turkey claims, according to International Law, as illustrated in the Convention on the Law of the Sea, islands are generally eligible for an exclusive economic zone and a continental shelf to the same extent as any other region’. I do not remember a statement of your own day! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Voting and signing by President Trump of the 'EstMed Act'. You have also referred to this important piece of legislation. In December 2019, it was adopted. We did something, too, Mr Tsipras, to sign up, unless that is what you wanted to do, but that is not what you did in the past. I forgot, you didn't even get to do that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At least we agree it's an important conquest. Why is EastMed Act conquered, Mr Tsipras? For today, for the first time in the United States, there is a cross-party consensus in an extremely polarised environment, which recognises, firstly, the strategic importance of the Eastern Mediterranean basin for the United States and, secondly, recognises the axis of Greece - Cyprus - Israel, predictable - yes, predictable - strategic allies for the United States, which must be supported. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we add to our patio and that gun. I want to remind you that the American Congress is powerful. And the U.S. Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee is a state-of-the-art state. When I went to Washington, I met twelve of the twenty-two senators, who listened with great interest to what I said to them: because Greece is a factor of stability in the region and because at this particular time the upgrading of the relationship with the United States is of paramount importance, not necessarily, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, in contrast to what is happening in Turkey. So we also have this very important text, which we add to the patronage of our diplomatic tools. I would like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, that the sale of F-35 in Turkey was blocked by Congress. And this was as a result of a comprehensive intervention by many countries, which finally convinced the American Senate and the American Congress that the F-35 market from Turkey, when Turkey has bought the S-400 system, would jeopardise NATO's important operational capabilities. So I say the 'EstMed Act' in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, ten days ago I received a personal letter from the American Foreign Minister, Mr Pompeo. In this letter, Mr Tsipras, Mr Pompeo writes - he does not just say it - that the United States remains committed to supporting the prosperity, security and democracy of Greece. I do not remember you getting such a letter on your own days! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The last time, because I see you laughing ironically, we received such a letter from the US Secretary of State in 1976 at the infamous exchange of Kisinger and Bitsew letters. You have also received a letter from Mr Trump, who congratulated you on the signing of the Prespecies Agreement! Yes, you had received a letter. Only, I'm sorry, it's not exactly the same value. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I also submit this letter to the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Greece has therefore managed to reverse a stable situation of decades with relations with the United States, a situation which, at best, claimed a favourable neutrality from the United States and, in the worst case, a clear recognition of Turkey's strategic importance to the interests of the United States in our wider region. Well, these are important conquests, Mr. Tsipras, for foreign policy as a whole. It would be brave of you to recognize it. After all, we are building on your own political choices, which you are now coming and undoing. Indeed, however, Mr Tsipras - and I will close with that - you are indeed, as you claim, unpredictable and unreliable. You used to start marching towards the American Embassy and go to the Constitution, turn to the corner. So now, deny an agreement that you even shine yesterday. It seems, Mr Tsipras, that 'the destiny of the fuckin' has been impossible!' [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But in the name of - and I am closing with this - of the common national line, I would invite you again to appear unpredictable, despite your position that you will vote 'at present', to have the courage to vote 'no' at least. What's with the middle-class stuff? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Change your mind and vote with us shortly before you leave the Chamber. Greece will indeed be an unforeseen profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u137	He has asked for the Chief of Staff Responsibility to be seconded. Come on, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u139	Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u140	From my point of view, Mr President, I do not want to go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u141	You don't get carried away!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u142	I'll try, because Mr. Mitsotakis said soccer is secondary, but he talked sixteen minutes about football. So I might get carried away on secondary issues too. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I will start with foreign policy issues, and then I will say just a few words on football issues. Mr Mitsotakis, I have the feeling that you either do not understand what we are telling you or that you are not really watching us. You've been busy lately. I do not know if you are aware of exactly what we are saying and what is happening in the country. Because I see you traveling a lot as Prime Minister - it makes sense - even more than your programme - that is your right - but we say specific things. And the specific things we say about the agreement is that, of course, we negotiated it and negotiated it in a reasonable mutual benefit, but its ratification today by the Greek Parliament, before our sovereign rights in practice are guaranteed by the United States, and not just in words, is a false move. And I'll explain what I mean. As I told you in our private debate, foreign policy is not a matter of love, friendship or ideology. You mentioned before that SYRIZA was forced. Yes, SYRIZA was forced, because we were primarily interested in the country. And just because it's not a matter of friendship, love or ideology, it's a matter of interests, it's something you give and you get something. And, of course, you may not have understood exactly what we are voting on today, because you say that we have been applying them. Another is an ad hoc use of authorisation under international agreements and another is the annual agreement. It's another thing. So what we have said is that the country should have made a very clear commitment that if the challenges arise from our neighbours, the United States will not be content with rhetoric. Mr Mitsotakis, you give me the opportunity to say two things, because today you have made a touching effort to explain what good it is to be predictable. You almost got out at the Step of the House and told us that predictability is something very important in foreign policy. And you blamed me as unpredictable. Yes, Mr Mitsotakis, I am the unpredictable Prime Minister, who, together with the government and the MPs of SYRIZA, managed to get the country out of the memoranda after an eight-year crisis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is the unpredictable government of SYRIZA that managed to bring the partners to the table to take a regulation on the public debt. It is the unpredictable government of SYRIZA that managed to create a EUR 37 billion buffer. It is the unforeseen government of SYRIZA that managed to upgrade the country's credibility and geopolitical dynamics with its agreements in the Southeast Mediterranean and in the Balkans with the Prespecies Agreement. And you guys are talking about fucking in this Chamber today? Do you have the nerve, and you're talking about a fucking papa? Where's this deal of treason? Keep it and honor it! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But, Mr. Mitsotakis, I, the unpredictable one when I went to the United States of America, did not sit buffalo over Trump. You spoke all and all seventy-two seconds when the President of the United States spoke for seventeen minutes! No disobedience! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So the unpredictable man was not into the president of the United States and said a dictionary. But our unforeseen government and unforeseen diplomacy had ensured a press conference to hear our positions, listen to national positions, defend our sovereign rights. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This unforeseen attitude has also led to the EastMed agreement and to the support of EastMed from the United States and the EastMed Act. You didn't do it. This bill has been ratified - which actually gives very important benefits to our national interests - long before you go to the United States and say that you are predictable. You referred to the statements. And you told me we made commitments, we got statements. Just the fact that you were on the point of celebrating and beating a letter from Mr. Pombeo a few days after your trip there reveals the failure of your visit. Why didn't he say that there? Why didn't Trump say that and Pompeo sent you? And you are allegedly presenting these statements as unique. But Pompeo himself in the same letter he sent you, writes: 'I have said this again.' What are you celebrating? Communication policy for everything. It's not all communication, Mr. Mitsotakis. In fact, you are referring to letters of earlier years, such as that of 1976. I hope we don't have to have similar tragedies now. For it became two years after the loss of Cyprus and the attitude of the United States, which forced Constantine Karamanlis to take the decision to exit NATO's military arm. I would like, however, at this point, since you are talking about statements, to say that I did not refer to statements in my speech. I have tried for good reasons not to talk about it. But you are obliging me to comment publicly on some statements. The whole of Greece has heard and judged and, of course, heard the President of the United States, Mr Trump, according to the official leaks following his call with the Turkish President to say: 'Find them in the Eastern Mediterranean'. And the next day, what happened? The Turkish President said these unacceptable and provocative things next day. And I remind you of the interview at "KATHMERINI", if I am not mistaken, of the National Security Counsellor of Trump, who said this unprecedented: "Not for Greece to be so aggressive with Turkey. For it is causing us problems because it is pushing this important country outside NATO.'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u143	Where did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u144	Didn't you read it? You didn't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u145	Do you have it? Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u146	Don't hit her like that again with the Minutes. Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u147	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u148	I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we all have an uneasy in our foreign policy, and we have no more - this attitude of predictability to get us good. Our sense is that it creates and gives rise to dangers. I'm coming now and I'm going to close up with soccer issues. Mr. Mitsotakis, did you talk about pimps? Did you talk about selective relationships with pimps? Who are these pimps? I challenge you to take the floor and tell us. Do these pimps have a name? Who are they? What's their name? Who's a pimp? Mr. Marinakis, Mr. Savvidis? Are these the pimps? Say it. Why don't you say it? Are you talking about the media owners' benefactors? Are you saying that? Based on their interests - you say - in football, they are getting their means of informing them. Is this really happening at the place? We haven't figured it out for so many years! We didn't realize this was happening! Welcome to our country! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And, in any case, what are those words? Tell us. Is the newspaper "TA NEWs" a liar? Is that the 'EM' channel? Or is it the "OPEN" or the "NATION" television station? Why don't you tell them? When you go to Stepma and say such heavy words, have responsibility, sign on what you say, not just talk about pimps and pimps, and about media! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And, in any case, Mr. Mitsotakis, you're making fun of us. Well, you discovered things here, like UEFA in Greece. These have come since 2016. The NCA is in close cooperation, it's under its supervision. Welcome to all of this. We did it. In any case, however, you do not need to be very well acquainted with footballers. The crucial decisions were made by you and you now charge them to Augenakis, the poor man. But you got them. You're behind critical decisions. The rest is known by Aygeakis. I'll tell you one thing. Aren't you the ones who came out to reduce by 50% the taxation of football teams, PAIs, in their contracts with footballers, by giving a gift to this complex that you are today complaining about? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It was you, Mr. Mitsotakis. And because you were, well done. Now I'm not sorry for you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u149	The President has the floor, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u150	Mr Tsipras, I would ask you next time for accuracy, when you refer to statements by third parties, to ask your staff to have at least the exact copies of what they have said. I personally don't remember the National Security Council saying what you said at all. I don't remember it, my partners don't remember, I don't have a chance to place it. I'm pretty sure he didn't say it the way you said it. Half the truth is worse than a big lie, Mr. Tsipras. You specialize, once again, in the distortion of reality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I want to understand exactly what you are asking of the United States. Are you asking for an umbrella of security and protection of national interests? Are you asking for a bilateral defence alliance, which will mean that if the non-genus, Greece, is attacked, the United States should assist, support Greece, an umbrella of security? Is that what you're asking? Explain it, please, Mr. Tsipras. I want to know what it is you're asking me to do. And if you're asking for this, why didn't you ask Mr. Trump when you went to visit him and said a number of things about "David" and charming you were trying to justify your fucking footstep? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The reality is that what you're asking, if you ask this, is outside the sphere of practicable. Consequently, what we have been able to ensure is clear statements from the United States, recognition of Greece's role as a pillar of stability in the Eastern Mediterranean, upgrading the partnership between Greece and Greece, the axis of Greece - Cyprus - Israel, strengthening our economic relations with the United States, recognition by the United States of the significant progress that Greece has made in the last six months on the front of the economy. I understand that you are very disturbed every time the country is not about the government, it receives credit for the progress it has made over the last six months. This thing bothers you, you show it. Try to show it a little less. In Greece we are doing good at last and not just on our side by getting Greece out of the crisis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, in any case, stop this pillow about how unpredictable you are and how you got Greece out of the memorials, after you put it. You're like the fireman who, after he's burned the house, comes and celebrates why he called the fire department. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Greece is serving, Mr Tsipras, a diplomacy based on a clear tripartite and I think at least on this tripartite we can agree. We are strengthening the framework of our strategic alliances not only with the United States but also with many other countries. Yesterday I visited France and I must tell you that the level of Greek relations and the level of our military cooperation has never been better. I imagine you agree that this is an initiative that moves in the right direction. In the next few days I have to visit Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. I'm going over your ironic tone on travel, Mr. Tsipras. It is unacceptable and inappropriate when the Prime Minister of the country is fighting for the defence of the country's national interests to leave such suggestions. It is unacceptable and inappropriate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, there has always been a constant practice in this Chamber of political forces that when the country's Prime Minister is abroad he is avoiding criticism within Greece. You've been violating it several times. I would recommend that you return to this practice. I also remember the first statement made by SYRIZA. I hadn't even been able to get out of the meeting with Mr. Trump, obviously you had written her before. It's not all that helps. Don't even think they're giving you points inside. I understand you have quite internal problems in the process of mutating SYRIZA with the fifty three, the centreright and all the components! Your good endings I return them for your internal problems! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm closing up with soccer issues now. You spoke, Mr. Tsipras, with names. So I'd like to speak with names, too. As far as I can remember, Mr. Marinakis is the one who made you two-eyed covers in the newspapers until you didn't find them anywhere. I don't know where, but he supported you with red cover. As for Mr Savvidis, with whom you were going to Thessaloniki, if I remember correctly, he was the one who said that Mitsotakis would never become a Prime Minister. So leave that aside, Mr. Tsipras. You guys had them both in your arms till you had a fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u151	Mrs Gennamas has asked for the floor for two-three minutes. Mrs. Gennimata didn't speak in the reverse series of Heads. You have the floor, Mrs. Gennamas, for a few minutes because you have notified us that you will not speak, but obviously these two-three-minutes are yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u152	Indeed, Mr President, and thank you very much, I have informed you that I will not speak because even our disagreements on national issues, on foreign policy issues, are keeping them low. But, unfortunately, following the debate - and in particular the last half hour - it is impossible to intervene and not ask for the floor. Because I'm really surprised. We live extremely critical hours on our national issues, on our national interests, and the Greek people expect us all to at least have the opportunity in this area to reach agreement and draw up a national line. And I have repeatedly called for the Council of Political Heads to be convened, precisely so that we can discuss each other openly and finally agree on a common line, to inspire security and confidence in the Greek people and to send a message of determination, preparedness and firmness to our partners and allies and to the entire international community. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Instead, I see today that the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Responsibility are choosing once again to set up a cohort on such a crucial issue. In fact, what are they trying to do? To hide behind heavy words and hollow words and plagiars the guilt both bears, the great responsibilities they have, because since the summer of 2015 we are almost today extremely predictable and given in foreign policy issues. I keep saying it. I saw today that Mr. Tsipras also copied us to how dangerous it is to be predictable and given. But that is what Greece is doing systematically on foreign policy issues from the summer of 2015 until today. And what are we celebrating for exactly? Is it because all the commitments to the economy remain, in the Overseas Department, in the refugee? And did the Tsipras government not know when it negotiated this defensive agreement, what was the situation with Turkey? If she's degraded her, badly. But they negotiated it and have a huge responsibility. And, of course, it also has a huge responsibility, and the government of Mr Mitsotakis, of the New Democracy, today, to ratify it without being guaranteed by the negotiation made by both the SYRIZA Government and the New Democracy Government, the interests of the country. That's the reality and that's exactly what they're trying to hide today throwing the ball in the platform. They came here to consume most of their time in football. One thing is true: you messed up. That's why we left. We have denounced you for all your policy over the last few months and not just for the arrangements you have brought in yesterday. That's why we refused to be here and to legalise all these options. And after you've made them a mess, you're coming afterward to unleash vague threats from the Step of the House. One is the truth, you have entered from the reforms in the arrangements, Mr Mitsotakis. You can't enforce the law on business interests. This conclusion has been drawn by the Greek people over the last two days and whatever you are doing here today, because Mr Tsipras is always willing to serve you to disorientate the debate, you will not be able to change these impressions. I say this because we had predicted that the supposedly unpredictable government of SYRIZA is the largest donor of the Right and opens the way for her to return. So here's the results in national, even in football. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u153	Speaking of predictions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u154	...to submit it to the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u155	You should testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u156	Yes, but read what he said and compare later!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u157	Wait a minute, what's this all about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u158	Just to testify in the Minutes, because it was questioned, that the US National Security Council gave an interview, which held equal distances and basically said to avoid the challenges that would harm NATO's cohesion and Turkey's NATO stay. [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] Wait till you hear it. So he said on word...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u159	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u160	Listen to me! What's wrong with you? All right, Mr. Mitsotakis, that's all right. We've had enough of it before. I'll just tell you what he's writing. Because I was not in the hands of finding "Kathimerini", I found the newspaper "THA" which is Mr. Marinakis today, who, as you said, when we found it, did, he said, headlines. So, did you find them and do them all the time? Is that your understanding of the media? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In any case, because I consider all newspapers to be valid, even those who criticise us, I read the title 'Equal distances'. US for Turkey and Greece: Avoid the challenges that will harm NATO's cohesion. Messages to avoid the challenges in the Mediterranean, which would jeopardise NATO's cohesion, send the Americans in the background the tension between Greece and Turkey." And he says, "The United States encourages Greece to manage its relations with Ankara in a way that will not affect our important alliance, NATO." What exactly do you want? But you do not have much time to read these publications.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u161	Mysteries are broken! We said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u163	Mr. Paphie, I'll talk to you about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u164	...for the procedure we agreed on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u165	For the procedure as we anticipated, but which unpredictablely evolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u166	They've been talking about the ball for an hour and a half. Objection!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u167	You flatter us now, especially me! No, I don't have such abilities. Listen, we had calculated the debate to be concluded at around 19.00 and the vote to be started about an hour and a half ago. Apparently, we fell out, and we didn't fall out a little bit, we fell by a lot. The political leaders spoke with an abundance of time. Since we were unable to keep up with what we had said at the Conference of Presidents with some unanimous flexibility, namely that the vote should be taken at 7 p.m., I would ask you to accept immediately after the discussions and discussions of the political leaders have ended, to begin the roll-call vote now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u168	The House approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u169	Mr President, on a point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u170	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u171	Mr President, we have not agreed on this. With our speech from the beginning when this agreement came for discussion in committee and in plenary, we finally agreed on four circles of speakers. They only spoke five. Did we agree or not for four cycles? We agreed. In the morning when you said at 7 p.m., I told you and I and Mr. Kaklamanis, if he is here, that it is impossible to do that and to fulfil what we decided and said we would be flexible. So, if they're going to talk an hour, why are the rest of them going to destroy the program that's been breached an hour and a half, and even because of a football that's insignificant? We ask, as has been done many times, that, after the positions of the political leaders, the rest of us, those who want to speak and then the roll-call vote should take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u172	All right, I get it, Mr. Paphie. He's half-right. We agreed to become four circles of Members, with the aim of closing at 19.00 p.m. It wasn't achieved. Flexibility means 19.30', 20.00'. It has escaped a great deal, so I have asked the House to approve, to proceed after the Heads' speeches in the voting, because we have escaped a great deal. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So Parliament approves this completion of the procedure and please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u173	For an hour?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u174	For an hour and a half, Mr. Paphie. Please, it was accepted...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u175	I say to you that we will not have the same tactic in trying to reach agreement in both the Bureau and everywhere. When he's invaded...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u176	Nothing's broken. We've been out of here for an hour and a half. There was tolerance in the speech by the Head of the Communist Party and Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u177	The others spoke four times more. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u178	Everyone spoke more than their time. The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is therefore concluded: ‘Under the Amendment Protocol to the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America’. Under Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, a roll-call vote will be taken on the first article, on the nominee article, and on the whole of the bill due to the qualified majority required by Article 27(2) of the Constitution. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. An electronic roll-call vote will take place on the basis of the first article, the nominee article and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘The Amendment Protocol to the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America’. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, an article, a farewell article and a whole. Make sure that you have voted on all four areas included in the vote. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u180	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be recorded in the electronic system and taken into account in the count which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my colleagues, and my colleagues, have taken part in this debate. Burhan Baran, Ilhan Ahmet, George Vayonas, Marietta Giannakos, Stavros Arachovitis, Konstantinos Zouraris, Irene Agathopoulos, Tryphos Alexiadis, Socrates Vardakis and Spyridon Lappas will not be present in today's roll-call vote and they are aware by letter of their intention to vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, shall not be counted on the electronic counting of votes and shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u182	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 288 Members voted. The principle of the draft law: In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 33 MPs voted. 'PARON' have voted 80 MPs. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. The first paragraph of Article 1 of the bill: In favour of Rule 1, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Under Rule 1 of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 33 MPs voted. 'PARON' have voted 80 MPs. The first article was therefore accepted by a majority. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: In favour of the celebrity article of the bill, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 175 MPs. The European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs adopted a resolution on the proposal for a Directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work 'PARON' have voted 80 MPs. Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. On the whole of the bill: In favour of the entire bill, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the whole bill, i.e. 'OH', 33 MPs voted. 'PARON' have voted 80 MPs. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority of the majority. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u184	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘The amendment of the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u186	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S2-commons.u187	With the agreement of the House at 20.48 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, January 31, 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: (a) a statement by the President of the meeting in memory of the fallen Greek Navy officers in Imia on January 31, 1996, and a minute of silence and (b) a parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
