ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on topical and urgent questions, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights, the Subcommittee on Disabled Persons and the Subcommittee on Combating Trade and Exploitation of Persons, are tabling their reports on the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, in accordance with Rule 43A(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The relevant reports will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The reports referred to above are in electronic format in the archive of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS By letter the Secretary-General of the Government informs him of the current questions which will not be discussed today and are as follows: The first under number 171/17-11-2020 of the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Blue populations in the pandemic: Targeted prevention and equal care" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The third under No. 180/20-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The government's silence on the question of workers of Greek Shipyards S.A. is challenging. It will not be discussed in consultation. The second question under number 184/22-11-2020 of a second question by MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Criminal clipping the coronary controller algorithm at the entrance gates" will not be discussed after consultation. The fourth under number 179/20-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MP B' Western Attica - Progressive Alliance Mr. George Tsipras to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Questions about the EVA algorithm used in opening the country to tourism" will not be discussed in consultation. We therefore begin the debate on topical and urgent questions with a fourth question, to which the State Secretary for Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis will answer. The third question will be discussed with number 189/23-11-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Greek Prime Minister in per capita health expenditure. The OECD shall expose the Government.’ Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. The subject is now very well known, as we have all seen the OECD and European Commission diagram entitled ‘Health at a Glance: Europe 2020’. On the basis of the evidence, Greece, up to the end of the spring, until 29 April, as the Government, Mr Secretary, said, is now officially involved in health expenditure. The figures for all the other countries are corresponding. Apart from some exceptions, all figures relate to April and May. So these are the elements of the table that show us that we are last in expenditure, even though we started so far behind and even though we have a National Health System that has been dissolved after ten years of extreme austerity, as well as a depreciation that has existed in previous years. Instead of investing in this public health system, we were the last to be able to invest, at least in the first wave of pandemic. It seems, indeed, from the result, as we see from the families that mourn our fellow humans, we continue to be the last ones to invest. I would like to invite you, please, to call on you at least now to start building new ICUs, to proceed with the recruitment of staff, the equipment of hospitals, the requisition of private hospitals and hotels where it needs even now, because the investments you are going to start now seems to save us in at least one month from now. The non-investment you have chosen to do to strengthen the private health system is what leads us to terrible social and human deadlocks. Please stop. Change course. We now have the official evidence. There's no excuse. You're naked as far as your policy is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, you are obsessed with not letting you judge in a fair and objective way. You have not exercised constructive criticism and you do not identify the weaknesses and omissions you say, which could certainly be corrected and we would have absolutely no reason to do the opposite. For example, you're telling us that the ICUs are already over. Let me remind you that, from June until today, we have opened at least three hundred new intensive beds in the public health system, in the state, in the public hospitals. You can tell us: “Three hundred and ten are not enough. Create above.’ There has been an effort all this time, which unfortunately you are vaporizing and minimising. I think that this is how you do not recognise the efforts of all workers in the National Health System in order to cope with the difficult circumstances of the time. I will once again say that reality is one and you must accept it. We strengthened the National Health System to staff with more than seven thousand ancillary staff and sixty-five permanent appointments of medical, nursing and other personnel. These have been implemented in 2020. We multiplyed the beds in intensive care units with fifty new beds at the hospital "Saitiia", twelve new ones at the Hospital of Nice, six at the Hospital of Chalkida. These are the recent beds that joined the health system. I have said that in the next few days by the end of the year we will have thirty new beds at the KAT hospital. We have beds on the 'Red Cross'. We have new beds in "Juneo". We have a programme for the implementation of new intensive treatment beds through the donation mainly of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. It is an effort that produces results and we have done so in a very short time, using sponsorships and donations, without any reward. We also reorganised the functions of hospitals and health centres, on the one hand, achieving the service of patients with coronary virus and, on the other hand, the uninterrupted service of emergency and serious incidents and of patients belonging to vulnerable groups, such as oncology. In one month we increased intensive care units from nine hundred and seventy-nine, which was on 29 October, in a thousand two hundred and fifty-four on 29 November. Similarly, simple coronary beds within a month more than doubled. In particular, I mention it for the city of Thessaloniki, because there is now pressure in northern Greece. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall finish, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. Within one month the ITH beds almost five times in Thessaloniki and the simple beds tripled. Intensive treatment units of forty-three today amount to two hundred one and simple beds of four hundred nine hundred eight in a thousand four hundred twenty. The National Health System has endured. We see what happens in other countries, where patients from one country to another or are treated in corridors. That's not done here. We've endured, we've endured, and we'll endure. We will do everything possible to cope successfully. All this is due to endurance and good preparation, to the plan that has been in existence and, of course, to the staff who are reluctant to fight every day. The Greek people are happy to know and judge and the government is doing and will do everything possible to ensure that none of our fellow citizens remain without the necessary care. Invite the OECD data as a pretext. I would ask you to speak about what you know, which has been well informed and of course is true. Regarding this OECD study, the ‘Health at a glance’, conducted by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, distorts the results of the study. The study does not refer to total per capita expenditure on the Coronovirus crisis, as you claim, but refers to additional financial aid from the health systems budget, which the Agency makes clear. It does not include a number of costs, such as the costs of controls or hospitalisation, nor of course the use of the regular budget for the treatment of the coronary, the considerable number of donations, as well as projects from European programmes, which exceed EUR 463 million. In fact, we have asked the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to correct the relevant tables, where the table you refer to again has a date. The latest data are in April 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u5	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. As is well known, the appropriations in the Ministry of Health's regular budget for Coronovirus response needs are important, obviously putting Greece in a much higher position and in this study where, as I said, the data will be corrected and, of course, the results so far speak for themselves in terms of crisis management. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u7	Here, you have the floor, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, saying that the results speak for themselves, I'm sorry, but it's awkward. You said that we are obsessed and that we do not see the great work of the government in the field of health. I would like you to reply simply to me: if the government were to insist on not making traces, aggressive tracing after the tripling of tests in September and October, not taking physical distance measures in schools, if it was worth the government's insistence that we continue to have this co-existence in public transport, not putting a timely cap on diagnostic tests, not promoting measures to protect primary health care in order to dismantle hospitals. You're talking about the ITHs you made when the House of 8 million proceeded to 50 ITH. We could, Mr. Secretary, at this time we could have 2,500 IF. You only depend on donations in practice. Is that possible? How much is Lockdown? How much would we save you if you took the right measures? In 1/16 the cost of the last lockdown would be enough to have 2,500 additional ICUs. And you're saying you did something? You've stopped most of the surgery, over 80%. People will lose their lives because of this decision. And you're even telling us that you're defending the workers you leave them without any colleagues, without being able to have a replacement, with twenty-four and more shifts, without inside, without equipment, without ID? Have you left them at the mercy of the crown, and will you tell us that you speak on their behalf, when at times are you forbidden to speak for themselves? It is true that the scientists of the Coronovirus Management Committee have fewer data than those available to the authors of the newspapers. Where is the official information that the committee has to have in its hands in time for it to be able to plan? It is obvious to all citizens that you are not incompetent, you are not inactive, but you have a strategic choice to privatise the public health system. That's the point. And it's creepy that you won't get too far from this decision even through the coronary, even in the midst of this November that has cost us almost a thousand seven hundred people. I really don't come to opposition. I'm coming to ask you to change course right now. Investment in the public health system right now, so that we don't have this conversation in one or a half months. Do it, Mr. Undersecretary, now. I'm not telling you in opposition. I tell you as a man of this country with too many relatives and friends in Thessaloniki and everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u9	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I will start with the last thing you said about privatising health systems. I have said that too many times in this Chamber. I think we've exhausted the matter. It seems uncomprehensible and we should repeat it. Cooperation with the private sector does not in any way mean privatising the health system. The Government has made it clear that it ensures the public character of the health system. In a National Health System there is both the state sector and the private sector. And now that we have a crisis, a pandemic, the public and private sectors have to cooperate together, so that we can overcome any issue arising from the pandemic. Of course, to date, as far as the treatment of the coronary is concerned, none of our fellow citizens have to pay from their pockets, if they need care, care or anything else that has to do with the management of the pandemic. You referred to tracking. You know, in other states, more advanced, more developed, that coronary cases are growing exponentially, they have collapsed their tracing systems. Our tracking system works perfectly, and it is one of the factors that can in time find close contacts between the cases and we can see the contacts around, so that we have the necessary documentation to make the right decisions. You talked about measures in schools. There are concrete measures, specific decisions, specific protocols, and it seems even until the schools closed down that the coronary dispersion indicators were too small in school units. You spoke about the functioning of primary health care and the decongestion of hospitals. That's what we did at the beginning of the pandemic, that's what we're doing now. More than one hundred eighty health centers and forty-five regional hospitals are points of examination, screening and conducting diagnostic tests for the coronary, so that we can serve the world and decongested the hospitals from the pressure they receive. You talked about surgery that stopped. Urgent and emergency procedures are conducted normally or other operations must be performed, for example in tumour patients. Regular surgery is indeed reduced in order to protect both health workers and our fellow citizens who come to hospitals. This is happening all over the world. It's not just us. Read the reports of the World Health Organisation and other organisations that show in the clearest way how states deal with the management of the pandemic. We see the spread of health workers in other states. Here with the measures we have taken, we have kept the dispersion to the least possible extent. You spoke of a lack of personal protective equipment. I do not think that any kind of personal protection has been lost by workers in the National Health System. Let me remind you - we have said it many times - that garbage bags used advanced states. We have not seen such images here, nor are we going to see, because we have ensured adequacy, and we have ensured the quantities that will allow us to manage the pandemic if there are shortcomings in all of this. As far as equipment is concerned, it has been an opportunity to strengthen, renew equipment in the National Health System and, of course, to continue to do so. I mentioned before that 453 million euros from European programmes are in progress in order to further strengthen our country's structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u11	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for this. In no case, then, do what you say. There's a plan, there's planning, we've done it so far, and we'll make it, and I repeat we won't leave any of our fellow citizens behind that needs care and care. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u13	We move on to the first with number 686/19-10-20 a question about the circle of petitions by the Member of the SYRIZA Ilias - Progressive Alliance Mr Dionysius - Charalambos Kalamianou to the Minister of Health, on "Serious deficiencies in the field of EKAV in the Elias Prefecture in the midst of the new outbreak of COVID -19". Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I understand you're in an extremely difficult situation. Unfortunately, our country is in a dramatic situation with thousands of cases, evacuated and dead. Yesterday's press releases show and reveal that there was a double case recording system, so that scientists do not have timely and valid data to make the appropriate decisions. The truth will be revealed, Mr. Undersecretary, and the reality cannot be hidden behind the "mobile" that your communication management is trying to raise. You should explain to us, however, on the basis of what you mentioned earlier, how it is on Saturday with six hundred insulated nine of our fellow men who are waiting to find a bed in an IF. No numbers. You were saying you have a thousand How can there be six hundred nine intubated and no one finds bed or waiting for bed? Or, then, there are no such beds in ICUs or there is insufficient staff to operate those units that exist. That's what's happening to Elijah. The administration opens wards for patients with CIVID -19, but because you have not taken care of the necessary staff, doctors and nurses, in adequacy, are forced to transfer doctors and nurses from department to department and from unit to unit. It recycles, that is, poverty in staff. With 'blocks', healthists are trying to deal with the tragic situation. That is what their representatives themselves denounce.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u15	But go to the question, why is your time running out?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u16	I shall take a minute, Mr President. So why is that? Because you have not hired, I repeat, enough medical and nursing personnel to fight the virus at the moment when all of Elijah's health units must give the battle against the virus. On this point, Mr President, I would like to thank the staff of the health units in public. Recently my own person, a very own person in the hospital of Pyrgos - not with a coronary, with another illness - was diagnosed in close proximity to self-depression, professionalism, but also in what adverse conditions our sanitarians are fighting against the virus in their attempt to treat the patients. Thank them from the heart again. In the EKAV Elijah too, the shortcomings are enormous. The EKAB sector in Elia since September 2019 has been served by Patras and the Centre for Western Greece. It is reported that communications are made through a mobile phone and not via a radio. You abolished the direct call of 166 at the Tower and now operates in Patras, i.e. citizens call at 166, exits the Patras telephone center and then tries to connect to Elias. In addition, rescuers from Elias serve daily, provide services to the Centre of EKAB in Patras. These deficiencies are also added to those who are necessarily absent from work due to coronary cases. And in ambulances, the situation is hopeless. Elijah's six ambulances don't work. It's for repairs. There are only three that have come from Patras. So, is the State Secretary asking: why is the fleet of the ambulances in Elijah deported? Is the necessary maintenance of the ambulances they attempt? Why and by what process is there a telephone service on a daily basis by Elias staff at the Patras telephone centre? Is there - and to what extent is it - a competition or planning for recruitment to the EAW and other health groups, as well as for ambulances?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u17	Mr Secretary-General, the first part which was irrelevant to the question was, of course, in the general sense, the health sector, I think you have already answered, in reply to Mr Arsenis. So, focus on the EKAB piece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u18	He has not responded, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u19	Okay, in your opinion. He's said about the I.T.U. units and all that. For five minutes, he replied to Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u20	It's a specific question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Kalamatian, I left you four and a half minutes. I could have stopped you, because else your question said, and on another point you spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u22	And the other things were relevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u23	Okay. However, it is afternoon, we have a little bit of simple, we will not ruin our hearts, but it has already answered enough. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u24	For what Mr Kalamatiano also mentioned in the first part of his position, we will be given the opportunity in the context of parliamentary scrutiny to respond. Because many times the Members of the House of Representatives, while the question is specific, are developing issues which are not related to the questions they have to ask. Mr Kalamatiano, I would ask you to check in your party the numbers you are telling us and the numbers, because you have spoken of people who are waiting for an intensive treatment unit. I don't think there's any other guy left with a coronary outside. You told us about the Salvation Hospital and the intensive care unit, which is close to filling this unit and you told us that they are not working. I do not want to remind you of the state we received the National Health System and you come today without a trace of self-criticism to move our fingers. I would like to go directly to answer the question as regards the National Direct Aid Centre. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the EKT has been put in full operational preparedness along with the National Business Centre. The staff and staff are at the forefront of restoring and fighting the pandemic, and, of course, the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the administration of the EAW has taken all those initiatives that are needed to strengthen and broaden the work that it is doing. For example, I would like to inform you that the EAW was exceptionally financed through financial resources to cover all those needs needed to deal with the pandemic. Subsidiary staff recruitment has been carried out, the continuous flow of materials and resources from the Ministry of Health's central sanitary warehouses has been ensured. Actions have been taken to renew and strengthen the fleet of ambulances from Community and national resources, and in particular with regard to the area of Elia 3 Patras, we know that at the moment they are trying every day four ambulances per shift. At this point I would remind you that on your day they were attempting three ambulances in the morning, three in the afternoon and two in the night, that is, one less per shift, and today is four in the morning, four in the afternoon and three in the evening. Ambulance shall be maintained at regular intervals on the basis of the manufacturer's definitions, primarily with a view to the safety of the crew and the patient being treated. Any damage to the environment shall be immediately addressed, and until the damage has been recovered there shall be cover by an ambulance in another area listed in the Annex. I should like to inform you that in the next few days, two ambulances are delivered for operational use in the workshop to be repaired for engine change and one third for the next few days before the end of the year. With regard to the transportation of the call centre of Elias to Patras, it was launched for purely operational reasons, as well as for the better management of the signals. The employment of rescuers from Elias was considered necessary because they have a better knowledge of geography and of the particularities of the region. I should like to point out that while the staff of the above staff initially amounted to 15 per week, they have now been reduced to five per week. Therefore, the EAW sector in Elias has been strengthened by additional staff of five rescuers. Initially, at the request of the administration of the EKA, 12 posts were adopted to strengthen the areas in Tower, Amaliada, Varda and Sakharo with three people each. Unfortunately, the applications made and made in recruitment were five. In order to cover all seven posts, which remain vacant, in cooperation with the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the EAW has taken the necessary steps to fill these posts. EKAV Patras found that there were rescuers from Elias who recently acquired the certification of an ambulance crew rescuing and had not prevented the previous declaration. With regard to strengthening the fleet of ambulances in the annex to Western Greece - EKAV 3 Patras - I would like to inform you that the supply of three mobile medical units, an ambulance small volume for which the contract with the contractor is expected, has been completed. We are in the final phase of the competition for ten ambulances with a single company that continues the competition following a preliminary ruling in favour of it. Soon these ambulances will be allocated to all areas listed in the Annex and part thereof will end up in the areas located in Elias. In addition, contacts between the EKA and the Region of Western Greece have begun, so that additional supplies of ambulances can be made through the regional operational programmes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I said that these patients with COVID - 19 were on hold and you did not answer whether these people were actually waiting to find a bed. So, are you saying that there is staff adequacy and can all units operate with the staff currently in existence, or are you carrying doctors, as is the case with Elias, from part to section and from unit to unit to meet? And why don't you hire permanent staff at last? I now come to the issue of the EMCDDA. In 2018, a competition was launched to provide ten ambulances to the EKAV of Western Greece, three mobile medical units - KIM - and an emergency ambulance. That is, a total of fourteen vehicles. The competition came to some point. To date this competition has not been completed. When is it planned to be completed and when will these ambulances finally be made available to the EKAV of Western Greece to get that which corresponds to her? You referred earlier to the recruitment of 12 auxiliary staff. Twelve were originally appointed. You also said that today there are five of them. The rest of the seven places you'll reopen them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u28	So you're going to reopen them. You say it today. We expect to see it. Permanent staff when do you expect us to have? Will a contract notice be issued for permanent staff in the EKA, but also for health staff as a whole, to fill the many vacancies existing in Elias and in nursing units? Workers' representatives denounce that deficits are enormous both in vehicles and in staff. We're waiting for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u29	Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Callammaine, I've responded with regard to the tenders for the supply of vehicles. The contractor is expected to deliver three mobile medical units. The contract is expected to be signed by the contractor for a small volume ambulance. For ten ambulances, I told you that we are in the final phase with a single company that continues in the tender following a preliminary ruling. I also said that the posts would be reopened in order to cover rescue crew seats in the EAW. It is a problem that, although these 12 posts were opened, we had only five posts. Let me remind you that doctors' movements were made and made over the years not only doctors but also other staff. And right now the country, the whole planet, the whole world, is facing an emergency. We can see it. It is logical that there should be movements in order to deal with these situations. I referred to the fact that more than seven thousand subsistence recruitments have been carried out since the beginning of the pandemic, while our initial planning was for two thousand recruitments. In addition, more than six hundred doctors have permanent posts in 2020, have joined the health system. We said that by the end of the year a thousand four hundred twenty-one position of doctors of various specialties would be in the health system. And more than these doctors have already announced over the past few days, the Prime Minister himself announced two hundred fifty positions of doctors serving in intensive care units in order to make these posts permanent. So permanent posts are also being proclaimed and there is a specific plan to cover any gaps in the health system. In addition, I should like to tell you that in the next sixteen days, doctors' positions will be called for for the EMCDDA, because there are empty doctors' positions to deal with the lack of it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. We move to the second under No 857/21-10-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement of Change, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Request for children for immediate prescribing of the COVID -19 test. Consistent the costs for the average Greek family." Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know from the moment the pandemic manifested the Change Movement had highlighted the need for as many diagnostic tests as possible in order to effectively check the spread of the coronary. The ministry, EOGY, the state kept a stable, but in our view mistaken, and only tests were carried out on people with suspected symptoms. We believe that the decision you have taken recently to deal with the great increase in the costs that the public paid to private laboratories, that is to say, price, has something to do with your own attitude which you have not heard for eight months now, on the one hand, on the valuation and, on the other, on the prescribing of at least the vulnerable groups and the children. So we come today and continue not to prescribe the test for children, you continue not to prescribe for sensitive groups, you continue not to prescribe for a certain number, of course not unlimitedly for citizens. We would like to see whether, at the same time as reviewing your position and imposing valuation, you have reviewed the view that tests should not be prescribed? Have you, in other words, come to the position that says that you are rethinking a wrong view of why it is required by developments, but also by the situation in society and every family that is called upon to pay an extra cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u33	Are you referring, Mr. Kegeroglu, I assume molecular not in the quick test? Isn't that right? I would like to make it clear that the answer is clearer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u34	It's also economical.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u35	Because they're two the traffic test, so the Minister knows. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, the state covers the need for all without exceptions for coronary diagnostic checks on the structures of the National Health System without any financial burden. Anyone who has to do the test does it in public structures, without any financial burden, I repeat. And that's one of the reasons why you don't need to prescribe the test once the test covers it by the National Health System. You referred to specific questions to children, students, schools. In a piece of your question, you ask whether pediatricians are considered to join the committees and decision-making centres. I would like to inform you that there are five pediatricians already in the Committee on the Management of Extensive Public Health Incidents. Also, with regard to actions with the health assurances of the child, let me tell you this: Children with suspected symptoms - now, of course, schools are closed, but they have been in place lately - are not going to school. No pediatrician is forced to sign a certificate without the examination being carried out first. Also, the National Committee of Experts, taking into account the international literature and published studies, has decided on the following time to return a confirmed case to school: 10 days after the start of symptoms, if three 24 hours of dismissal have elapsed and the improvement of symptoms. It is noted that, in rare situations, space from the start of symptoms may reach twenty days, according to the opinion of the physician. It is also clear that for the return of a confirmed case to the school there is no need to carry out a new test and there are more detailed details on the subject. As far as the issue of medical certificate is concerned, it is clear that for return - I repeat - no medical certificate is required, no medical certificate is required. The same is true in the case of students who have experienced symptoms which have not been attributed to the coronary. Of course, schools are closed now, and all this applies if they were to function properly. Finally, as far as school units or individual classes are concerned and the children who are forced to stay in quarantine, I think that now that schools are closed, all pupils are attending television courses and therefore no students are left behind in the matter of course material. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question has, of course, been tabled on 21 October and the things that existed before the second universal closure were different from those currently in force in relation to contacts. Although the conditions have changed, however, the main question remains about the possibility of prescribing the molecular test, as mentioned in the question and completed by the President, about the students and - I am expanding it - for those who are sensitive - why not? - the vulnerable social groups. For what? Not only because of the cost, because with the valuation, at which, in the end, these costs have been reduced to a certain extent. But it's not just a matter of cost. It is also a question of dismantling mobility in hospitals. In other words, I think that the Ministry should have seen it from this side and taken advantage of the opportunity. And what does it sound like, "But, since it is done in the hospital why should it be prescribed?" because a series of exams - you know it very well and alas! - they are made in hospitals, but, at the same time, they are prescribed. Woe if they weren't prescribed. So it's something you need to rethink. And I do not say that is a prescribing de facto - if possible! - or without the medical recommendation and without the medical advice necessary for the test. I am talking about specific cases relating in particular to children and vulnerable groups and, of course, to citizens, where they are judged to be necessary and necessary, and in any case, to those who, through tracking, seem to have been in contact with certain cases. Because - you know that very well - with confirmed cases come into contact with certain people and the recommendation is not subject to the test being done, but to sit away for fourteen days. You know this is happening in practice. If, however, there is the possibility of electronic prescribing the molecular test for children and vulnerable groups, then there would also be the safety of the test result in order to know exactly what is happening and thus have greater and better results in the stirring up of the coronary transmission. We therefore call on you, as you have done with the valuation, unfortunately eight months later, to do the electronic prescribing of the tests by priority for students and vulnerable groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u39	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, the management of the pandemic is of course different in relation to the management of chronic diseases or other diseases that are actually prescribed tests and are performed respectively. Here we repeat that this is a special case. Anyone who has to do the test, whoever meets the requirements, then does it without any cost to the public structures and not just to hospitals. Right now - I said to a previous question by your fellow Member - there are a hundred eighty health centres and forty-three regional hospitals where citizens can come, evaluate the incident and carry out diagnostic tests. We have also extended our production capacity to results not only through the use of molecular controls, but also through the use of rapid antigens. We are one of the first countries to bring them together and see the European strategy that now refers to the use of rapid antigen controls. And because, in a part of your question you are talking about, in various countries, free points structures are being created for COVID -19 test, we have said that there are also targeted interventions in terms of control to see epidemiologically, but also to see the spread of the virus into specific closed structures, such as prisons, such as the nursing homes or the care units of the elderly. And there will also be targeted actions to see at the population level how this disease develops. We therefore have all the weapons at our disposal and we use them in order to identify the cases of the coronary in time and, in particular, through the tracking system - which you have said - to test both in contacts and wherever else needed in accordance with the protocols. I think this also seems to me from the figures that we are constantly increasing the tests and will increase them even further. There is production capacity in the country. And none of our fellow citizens will be deprived of this service.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u41	But they are being charged, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u42	They're covered by the state, Mr. Kegeroglu. It's free since - we said - someone has to run the test. None of our fellow citizens have paid from their pockets since they have to run the test. Of course, if anyone wants to do it on their own, they are in the private sector. In any case, the state both the test and any other kind of care, care, care and care it has to do with the coronary covers 100% of the costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u43	And we close the first cycle, with regard to the Ministry of Health, with the third with No 445/13-10-2020 question with regard to the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Georgios Born to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious deficiencies at the COVID -19 reference hospital of Agrinio. Need to conduct quick tracking." Here you go, Mr. Baroness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you have heard, I asked you the question about two months ago. You didn't answer. You deceived? You don't care? If, of course, these conditions are indifferent to the pandemic of the country, because indifference is an extremely dangerous phenomenon. Then you sent an order that converts the Hospital of Agrinio to a COVID -19 reference hospital. It's done and nothing else. We have made some suggestions to you and we have pointed out that there is no molecular analyst. Although there was some entry of a budget line in the region or so it had been mentioned. If you had heard of us, something you could have done better and something could have been avoided. More specifically, five employees at Agrinio Hospital were sick. The tests were sent to the hospital in Rio. For the results to come, it took six days, because unofficially said by the Ryu Hospital, they were out of reagents. I mean, where we didn't have a place in Agrinio, they ran out sometime - I say - and I say in Patras. I personally and with my speech to the House, had proposed to you for corporate management of the reagent market, so that we could achieve lower prices. For six days the hospital workers were asymptomatic and still working. You can very easily draw the risk of spreading over this period of time. If you even connect him to him and to what happened Sunday about the EGE and how they have been involved in the various books and what delay is noted in the statement of cases in each area, then you understand that the problem takes other dimensions. All of this, while we had made specific suggestions to you to support medical and nursing staff. Of the six people of pathological activity, one got sick of a coronary, two of the pneumonologists one also got sick of a coronary and there are tragic deficiencies, as we pointed out. There was nothing about it and we insist on repeating that from the beginning of the pandemic, when you tried to show some magical abilities - which, in my own opinion, this approach at that time, was an awkward - we and we put back, and we put forward concrete proposals for you and we waited for you to respond. Unfortunately, you didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Varemene, the Agrinio Hospital has indeed been defined as a point of reference for the Coronovirus, as all the hospitals in the country can deal safely and with adequacy of coronary cases. It was properly organized as in other cases. This means that specific management procedures and protocols are followed. Hospital beds that host Coronovirus patients are separated from the rest of the hospital. And because within your question there were questions about which wing, which part of the hospital would be treated with a coronary, I tell you that, seeing the development of the disease, we also adapt our powers to the National Health System and hospitals in particular. There is adequacy in personal protective equipment, sanitary and pharmaceutical material. It is also managed and hospitalized by suspects and confirmed cases separately. Of course, diagnostic checks shall be carried out in each case. And because you refer to the case of buying machinery for molecular control and that hospitals - not a hospital but a lot of hospitals together - will buy reagents, I will inform you that there are already hospitals and there were before the coronary pandemic that had the machines that could do these diagnostics. It's different the kind of machines and the test every hospital does. And of course, in any case, because we knew - you say - that reagents were expensive, which is why the samples were sent to areas such as Patras with the University Hospital, the Yannina or the National Haemodonism Center in Athens, where the reagent costs were much lower and the results were in time. I do not think that so far has been the result of six days. For the first time I hear it from you, and I believe that, on this point too, our country may have, in very few cases, exceeded forty-eight hours. We are at a point where within twenty-four hours we have results of molecular control, when other countries do seventy-two or more hours in order to achieve the result. Finally, a word about tracing. It is - I said it before - the important part of a series of procedures implemented by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection in cooperation with the National Agency for Public Health. Traces are carried out on the basis of a specific plan and have proved to be particularly effective in dealing with and limiting its cases and contacts. And it is - I will repeat - the very good tracking system, which we have, one of the factors that has helped us manage the pandemic so far. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u47	Dear George, Mr Vartenmene, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u48	It is quite obvious, Minister, that a molecular analyst could be right now - not now, since I asked you the question about two months ago - at the Agrinio Hospital. I myself, as you yourself have said, have noted that reagents are indeed expensive. I have, however, made a proposal for centralised management - not by hospital - of the supply of reagents so that we can achieve low prices. I had made this specific proposal. Do not question the six-day delay. Don't question it. In fact, I must tell you that the doctors of the hospital, whom I know - several people and are serious people - in their communication they say something that I did not mention before, that the dispersion has a name. That's what doctors say. And they've been asking for backup, like we've been doing since the beginning of the pandemic. We have been telling you since the beginning of the pandemic "stick the primary health in the game of dealing with the coronary". You did it after six months and did it in a colossal way, but at least, kindly late than never. But do something to work on this, we told you. And the commander of the 6th HR, eight - nine days ago, says: "I recommend a committee of thirteen members to deal with the pandemic. What wave of the pandemic? I do not want to believe, third or fourth, because I hope it does not exist. It is what we say in Greece at one time and someone said: 'Make a committee of five members from three to four'! But at least he proposed it and in time for the committee, not at this moment and after what has been said and I underlined earlier. Look, Minister. The Prime Minister went to Thessaloniki and inaugurated, supervised - I don't know, let me say supervised - the extension of a thirty-bed unit in Hippocrates. And then the doctors went out and said these beds were scheduled to work on February 26, 2021. Good thing they didn't say on 30, because February doesn't have 30 days. I'm serious about you now, it'll work then. It is good to work then, but it would be much more effective now and let the Prime Minister go - how can I say it? - to exploit it - to use another expression - to communicate? So I say that the uncertainty and sometimes the indifference in these circumstances are unrecognized. He's not apologies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. As far as the six days are concerned, however, check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Baroness, I have said in my protology that in very few cases the results have been delayed for up to forty eight hours. The system worked so well, that even today, we are under pressure and so much increased the daily number of tests, within twenty-four hours, we have results, and before the twenty-four hours the tracking of the incidents is already beginning. I'll tell you again about reagent management. The Greek state has been at its disposal the National Center for Hepatitism, where since the first moment of the pandemic our country has been one of the first countries to use this type of machinery. It is a competition that your government had completed, but we have succeeded in getting these reagents approved in mid-March by the American pharmaceutical and food agency and at the end of March it was already in Greece and the production of these machines began as far as the coronary tests were concerned at a very small cost. Samples came from all over Greece and within 24 hours we had results. I told you that there are different machines in each area and different values in reagents, which are used. That is why central management is too difficult. Where we can have central management, like the National Center for Hepatitism, we have it. What's better? To spend money with expensive reagents to have at every point in Greece and a machine or to transfer these samples to specific areas, close to health structures and have cheaper reagent prices, but also in time the results of the tests? You referred to primary health care. You said we're late to put her in battle. We've been on it all along. Let me remind you that we have also designated primary care centres, health centres exclusively for the coronary. Then it was not necessary for primary health care to enter completely into the battle of this pandemic. Now, of course, we use it, like all the structures, all the people. And don't forget they're private doctors too. These are other specialties, physiotherapists, dentists who, in the pandemic, provide health services to all citizens. In any case, then, I would like to assure you that we have operated and acted in the public interest and with a plan, in order to have the best results in a very short period of time, so that we can make our decisions in time and protect our fellow citizens from the coronary, but of course also the health workers who come into contact with cases. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u51	The fifth question under number 475/13-10-2020 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Konstantinos Markos, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Procedures for employers' arbitrariness with regard to workers in the field of couriers, couriers and external workers' will now be discussed. Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, under Articles 55 and 56 of Law 4611/2019, which relate to distributors using two-wheeled vehicles, the SYRIZA Government has established for the first time specific hygiene and safety arrangements for a dangerous profession and has established the framework for professional relations between this invisible person and that group. This law, inter alia, obliges employers to ensure that employees are doubled, to ensure that they are maintained, but also to cover all costs, safety, fuels, etc. Otherwise, it obliges them to pay 15% of their basic salary as an allowance for use and maintenance and obliges them to provide the workers with all the necessary means for their personal protection, helmet, gloves, jackets, boots, etc. In the same law, the Labour Inspectorate, which was an institution for the country and has contributed over the period to the protection of the world of work, was designated to ensure compliance with the above provisions, while on 1 July 2019 a circular was published by the former Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour with instructions for the application of Article 56. Since July 2019, due to government change, Article 56 has been applied by employers and the gradual deterioration of the College of Inspectors has led to the absence of any controls. Article 55 remains an empty letter, since the proposed Ministerial Decision has never been adopted. Since this sector is particularly sensitive and is affected by unemployment, undeclared and undeclared work and risk exposure, because it is a professional sector that has especially worked in quarantine especially now with poor protection and a great risk, you ask: Firstly, what directives have you given to date to the competent authorities for verifying compliance with the provisions of Law 4611/2019? I stress, Minister, by Law 4611/2019! Secondly, do you intend to issue a ministerial decision to activate Article 55 and initiate the obligation of employers to make an announcement to the Ministry's information system, to 'ERGAN', to the registration number of vehicles used? Thirdly, what immediate measures do you intend to take to put a stop to reducing the wages of these workers resulting from the transfer of costs for the purchase of personal protective equipment? Finally, have you studied the demands and proposals that have been drafted and submitted by their association, such as the working calendar, which will enhance the ability of workers to prove their real employment relationship? What's your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, the chief concern of the Ministry of Labour - I have said it several times in this Chamber - is that existing legislation on the protection of the health and safety of workers, and more than the workers of two-wheeled drivers in the distribution and transport of products and articles. This is indeed a particularly vulnerable occupational sector, which has always been affected by the alleged work and the risk exposure. Since the first day of the pandemic, in particular during the Lockdown, these people's offer to society has emerged in particular, as these workers in the midst of a high health risk suffocated a huge burden of work, carrying out a large number of economic transactions and activities due to exceptional restrictive measures due to the risk of the spread of COVID -19. In any case, I inform you that the safety and health inspection services of the Ministry of Labour throughout the pandemic have as their main and central priority the protection of the health and safety of workers in general. That is why extensive checks were carried out on compliance with both existing legislation on safety and health at work and the application of emergency specialised measures for public health and health protocols to deal with the risk of spreading the pandemic. The priority of our policy is to protect workers' working rights, whether they relate to their health and safety or to their salaries, licences, overtime and their protection. The general framework for health and safety at work is provided for in the Code of Health and Safety at Work, known as L.3850/2010, and applies to all workers employed by an employer with any employment relationship. In particular, the provisions of Article 56 of Law No4611/2019 concerning the protection of workers from the risk of road accidents, when they are distributed and transported products and articles, apply to distributors. The Act obliges employers to provide workers with all the necessary means for their personal protection to minimise injuries to accidents. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 56, suitable work equipment is defined as a protective helmet as referred to in paragraph 6 of Article 12 of the Road Traffic Code, coats suitable for the protection of the rider of the motorcycle or motorcycle, waterproof protection, gloves and retro-reflecting vest. The employer is obliged to provide suitable equipment to protect his workers. Moreover, the measures envisaged do not give rise to financial burdens on the worker but only on the employer. At the same time, the employer is obliged to provide the workers with a motorcycle, to ensure that it is maintained, but also to cover all costs, safety and fuels. Otherwise, it is obliged to pay the worker at least 15% on the basic salary as compensation for the use and maintenance of a two-tier. Article 56 further provides for the obligation for the employer to make an announcement to the information system 'ERGAN' in the registration number of vehicles used by workers when transporting and distributing products and articles. The adoption of the relevant Ministerial Decision will be completed in December in order to initiate the procedure for submitting the relevant form to the "ERGANI", which is ready to work within the month I mentioned before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u55	Mr Marku has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u56	Minister, your first speech was divided into two parts. In the first excellent report of ideas, which could indeed, on the basis of the sympathy you mentioned, lead to even emotion. In the second you read the law of 2019, the law of SYRIZA, which is currently the one defining the terms and conditions of worker safety. In October, when it passed, however, their association made a twenty-four-fourth strike, calling for this law to be implemented, demanding heavy and unhealthy, calling for control by the College of Inspectors and protesting at the simultaneous violation of all rights, especially after measures for the pandemic and after the intensification that tends to become normal. I was just here last week sitting behind Mr. Skourletis - in answer to a similar question, with an excess of suffocation - I am sorry to say it - and a politically dissatisfied nerve you told Mr. Skourletis 'What were you four and a half years'. And now state the status laid down by the law of SYRIZA! If that's not the epitome of political courage, then what is it? You've given some evidence that's revealing and I'm explaining. In the second half of 2019, nine hundred and seven audits were carried out and thirty-four fines were imposed. You told us that the rate of violations in the second half of 2019 ranged to just 3.6%, that is to say 96.4% of employers comply with the legislation. Beautiful world, moral, angelic, fake! There's something worse. You said that between 2020 and 15 November three hundred and eighty-two checks were carried out and twenty-three fines and two sues were imposed. In other words, the figure that was irregular is 6.5%. To put it another way, until November 2020 employers 93.5% complied with the legislation. Our world is still an angel! And you sought to say that the Ministry is committed to the implementation of legality, with priority for the workers, etc. Neither little nor much did you tell us that the union was wrongly proclaiming a strike and apparently lying to its demands. Therefore, thousands of distributors who are protesting all over the country about trespass are common liars and poorly proclaimed their strike. In fact, you said features that the workers themselves are making their crosses that SYRIZA does not govern. You said it here a week ago. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. So let's see the numbers you gave. If within a six-month period, that is, in 2019, the EIA carried out nine hundred thirty-seven audits, while in eleven months 2020 it carried out three hundred eighty-two, this means that in 2020 we had 80% less audits, Minister, and you are responsible for this. You said it a week ago from this seat. I note that in 2020 controls should be multiple, because there was a multiple increase in the movement of goods. With the study of the Athens University of Economics, the work of the deliveri food is around 500m euros. In March 2020 it was 25% of households who used it and in September 2020 at 38%. Therefore, I would advise you to be more glamorous in your expressions and to ensure that you give orders to the services of your Ministry to intensify controls, unless, as Mr Mitsotakis has said, you are interested in communication and impressions rather than substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, thank you very much. I didn't expect Mr. Marcus to fall into such a mistake. And I think it is wrong, Mr Marcos, for all this courage with which you have given me a moment ago as a Minister of Labour to go to work for a year and a half, because if anything else that has been done in the APRC, the Labour Inspectorate is just one thing: intensification of controls, strengthening the Labour Inspectorate by every means and respecting the lawfulness of the labour market. I have evidence of this, and I will report it to you. I am, however, beginning with something that is political and broader, because I find the SYRIZA's attitude completely hypocritical to the specific category of workers in deliver. And I say this, Mr President, because the law to which it refers, which includes self-evident things - and that particular issue with regard to the machine alone, will be placed in December on the 'ERGAN' electronic platform - is a law, ladies and gentlemen, which you are present in the Chamber, which was adopted shortly before the national elections, Mr Marcos, in May 2019. In other words, while you have lost the European elections and have spent four and a half years as a government, you are on the eve of the elections to legislate on a letter of vote. That's who you are! And I'm sorry for my style, but I also think you're bragged that you're coming here for a law inappropriate, that you voted on the election knee to show you well that you've been sensitized against this charge. It is a law on the eve of the elections that you did not apply to him because you knew you were leaving and saying 'at least whatever votes we take at the last minute'. That's what you did. Most of the things that the law describes to get into were already being implemented. And the helmet and the coat and the machine are undeniable preconditions for the operation of someone who works as a deliver. And the law applies. It's not something that doesn't exist. The law applies. The Ministerial Decision on the submission of the framework number by the motorised bicycle or tricycle to the "ERGANI" will take place in December. With regard to the information you mentioned now, Mr Marcos, on controls, you should be more careful, because I did mention to Mr Skourletis in the previous question, but the aggregates of the Labour Inspectorate that the Ministry of Labour made available some time ago show that the checks carried out in the second half of 2019, but also at the beginning of 2020, break every record compared to the past. You had suffered the flag of the election checks for your own reasons. It is evidence published by the Ministry of Labour, which shows that the checks carried out in the second half of 2019 do not have a precedent and if compared to your first half of 2019, it will be well to remain silent, because it is what they say is not politically taken to talk about checks. And I would like to end, Mr President, with something that I consider to be very important. Look, all the time SYRIZA has been trying to pass on the idea and the view that the SEA was downgraded, that the Labour Inspectorate was building up. It's a big lie, a huge lie! The Labour Inspectorate, Mr Marcos, with me, took unprecedented tools to deal with the evasion, undeclared and inconsistency in the labour market. I'd describe it about an APR with slings and now it has electronic tablets. Do you know what happened to the APRC? And I'm saying it because in your question you're passing this message, it's down. What's degraded? Can you imagine the APRD without my intervention in 2013 with the 'ERGAN', which for the first time enabled the APRC auditors to carry out electronic audits instead of seeing manuscripts and writing with pen and pen? Can you imagine what the APR would be like today, if there was no ERGAN of the Minister who created and today you were giving up, how the labour market was safeguarded, how did it work as an electronic shield for every worker with the "ERGAN" that you then swamped and called it the "Vrutsi Monitor"? However, this today is the most central tool for protecting workers. I know how much ERGAN has worked for the whole country during the pandemic that supported the workers. And, furthermore, imagine...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u59	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u60	I'm closing, Mr. President. Imagine the five hundred Tablets, the hundred twenty-seven new intakes in the APRC that will take place from 2020 and 2021 -- I mentioned it - and the five hundred special Tablets that now change the image of the APRC, because the APRC auditors, the inspectors stop the manuscripts, the manuscripts of fines. Everything will be done electronically in both real time and checks. In other words, we are still taking a step more than the existing "ERGANI" with the five hundred special tablets, which SYRIZA has never intended to provide inspectors with, to make multiple and more effective checks. Mr President, I have a great deal to say, Mr President, that it comes with the labour market bill, the 'ERGANI II' which brings the digital working hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u61	Minister, we have no more time. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u62	I'm closed. It will change the data in favour of workers more. That is the truth, Mr Marcos, for the checks, for the EIA and for who really cares about the protection of workers' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u63	We proceed to the first with number 178/19-11-2020 in the second question of the Greek Government's contribution by the European Investment Bank (EIB) to the construction of the New International Airport and to the renewal of the area of the state airport Heraklion - Nikos Kazantzakis. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, in January 2020 you signed a loan contract with the European Investment Bank, the known EIB - European Investment Bank, essentially to cover the participation of the Hellenic Republic, the Greek State of EUR 180 million in the contract for the construction and construction of the International Airport of Kastelion, the new International Airport in Heraklion. We have received information from publications on the EIB's environmental and social data sheet, which refers to specific milestones which should be fulfilled in order to proceed with disbursement of the instalments for the construction of the Kazantzakis airport. There is therefore an inseparable link between the development after the closure of Kazantzakis, the current airport, and the completion through the financing of the EIB of Kastelion Airport. This is also confirmed by the statements made by the Vice-President of the EIB, Mr Andrew McDowell, who expressly says that 'the EIB welcomes the commitment made to renovate the area of the existing Heraklion airport, from which economic, environmental and social benefits will arise. This renovation is an integral part of the terms of our loan." I must mention here that your portfolio does not relate to this issue. However, the EIB does not prejudge the form of exploitation in Nikos Kazantzakis. In other words, it leaves it open to the Greek state to choose how to use the perhaps most important property that the island has at the moment near the city of Heraklion, with extreme proximity to Heraklion, on the current runway "Nikos Kazantzakis". It therefore leaves open the possibility of either a purely public project or a concession contract or even a PPP. However, of course, I would like to inform you that your colleague, the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, referred to the government's plan to make use of the innovation proposals 'Unsolicated infrastructural proposals'. It is the EIB's well-known pretext for such issues - and I am going to expose it further - for the renovation of this region. He admitted, in other words, that we would use a non-transparent practice - I stress this, Mr President - and a lack of competition. I am going to refer in detail to my dentext why I am referring to this. So I close by asking the two clear questions: First, what is the ownership status of the area of Heraklion Airport 'Nikos Kazantzakis', which are the commitments you have made in relation to the renewal of the area of the existing airport 'Nikos Kazantzakis' and, second, what is the content of the loan agreement in question and its accompanying annexes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u65	Here, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you are aware of the importance of the region's economic and tourism development for the construction of the new airport in Kastelli. It is a project that the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself established last February. This is a multi-level project, as the construction of the new road links with the airport is part of it. The total cost of its construction is EUR 517 million and its construction and study will create two thousand new jobs. In the text of the question you tabled, you raise two questions. The first concerns the ownership status of the current airport ‘Nikos Kazantzakis’. As far as we can see, you are obviously suggesting that this may have changed or been questioned. I shall therefore tell you clearly that it has not been changed or called into question. The extent to which the facilities of the current airport ‘Nikos Kazantzakis’ are located lies largely with the Greek State. At the same time, a small part of it, about five hundred acres, belongs to the Municipality of Heraklion. As far as your second question is concerned, a loan contract was signed between the Greek State and the European Investment Bank last January. According to it, the European Investment Bank will provide EUR 180 million for the construction of the new Heraklion International Airport in Crete. As everyone knows, the European Investment Bank is a supranational body. It belongs to all the states of the European Union. Our country is a shareholder of this bank, which raises resources from the capital markets and then lends itself on favourable terms to development projects and investment projects in the countries of the European Union aimed at strengthening jobs, developing and promoting European policies. I shall refer to the content of the contract, which is a public document and is, of course, accessible to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u67	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, having mentioned this, I am taking the opportunity to point out to Greek citizens that the International Airport of Heraklion in the region of Kastelios is a project by the government of SYRIZA, a project that the government of SYRIZA last year matured and reached the end of the year. It ensured, matured the studies, proceeded and produced an international competition, became the contractor, found how to finance it in the process we said and finally ratified the contract in the Greek Parliament. All this happened to the previous government. And it is good to point this out and remember it, because the mid-term of almost a year and a half that has taken place since the summer of 2019 has done nothing. All that happened was a communiqué "tarajum" by the Prime Minister, who came, founded, threw mud in a plaque, and that was all. No work has been done. And that is the structural problem, that is the political issue. A year and a half has been lost, Minister, where they could have gone, the work has finally begun and we should not be at the forefront of the work. This process could have begun which so intensely development-rooted can provide the island and its inhabitants. It is a project of great importance, a landmark for my place personally, but more generally for the development of the island. I therefore hope that the government staff will finally, even now, finally, speed up the last moment for us, sixteen months later, the work, because the work, Minister, remains in place. The essence of the question concerning the area of the existing airport 'Nikos Kazantzakis' and the commitments that you have made with the signing of the loan contract with the EIB - I look forward to being silent about the content of the contract - is very critical. So, first of all, we have a right as Greek citizens and as residents of the island to know these terms. Is there any particular reason why this is not, after my prolonged inconvenience, Mr President, using every parliamentary tool I had - three questions under number 239, 538 and 336 from February, March and, respectively, June 2020 - calling through parliamentary scrutiny for this famous loan contract? This, in fact, also comes to help with other requests for documents that SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance as a Civic Opposition, we call for and, unfortunately, you are doing what has been islanded. That is something we need to mention. It is deeply interparliamentary and I look forward today, Minister, to having the contract in my hands. It's incomprehensible. We are talking about December now, tomorrow 2020, one year after the Greek Parliament, the National Delegation does not have the contract. And you know, we are in a "timing", in a "momentum" very critical, while the country is in a status of an escape clause. There is no troika, no memos, no limitations for 3.5% primary surplus. It invades liquidity through European structural and investment funds. In fact, Mr Skoplakis is next to you, and what I will mention now I think he is also of his own interest. I am talking about how, the political will you have in relation to this project. We know very well that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the Recovery Fund, gives the possibility of making use of this kind of project, because we are talking about holistic regeneration, Mr President, a regeneration of crucial importance. We often say that "Greek of Crete" is Nikos Kazantzakis, to understand the world. The question, then, is this: How can you proceed with such a study by means of the process that the EIB and World Bank have often followed, without taking into account society itself, local government, the municipality, the region and civil society? You said something inaccurate. The Municipality of Heraklion has no 500 acres. He's a master and prefect by 24.7%, Minister. And if you consider that it is three thousand hundred and thirty-three acres, you realize that the surface is larger. So, look at your evidence again, because it's not accurate. I say it with prudence. Let us now talk about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u69	Were you still on the admission? I've left you a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u70	Appreciate it and finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u71	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u72	In this context, we believe that you are undermining the development potential of the Greek economy and of Crete in general. You're unreliable. In order to recover part of your credibility, however, I hope that you will finally submit the loan agreement you signed, as well as its accompanying annexes and documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u73	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, the evidence I gave you before is accurate. With regard to the second part of the question on the loan contract, the loan contract with the European Investment Bank for the financing of the construction of Heraklion's new International Airport has the same characteristics as all the relevant loan contracts signed so far by the Greek State with the European Investment Bank. In this loan contract for financing, the State’s financial contribution to the project is committed to exploiting the wider area of the existing Heraklion International Airport ‘Nikos Kazantzakis’. And this is done in advance, in order not to repeat the example of the Greek airport that has been untapped for many years. It will be exploited in terms of public interest, in particular with the participation of local society and self-government, in rational terms. There is a commitment to open and public consultation with local bodies for the recovery plan. A working group has already been set up to draw up the relevant proposals, which has started its work since 17 December 2019, when it first met. Prior to the development of the area of Nikos Kazantzakis, public consultation will take place with the local authorities on the project and the recovery proposals that will be provided by the work of the working group. This project is part of the overall strategic plan for the renewal of the Heraklion region, and in any case the economic viability of each intervention will be taken into account. In designing and planning the project, it is assumed that a comprehensive urban development plan will be required, together with environmental impact plans and studies. In any event, the recovery process will be initiated immediately after the start of the new Heraklion Airport in Kastelli Pedadas, which is expected to take place in 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u75	We move on to two questions that will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis. So now we are discussing the second question by number 182/22-11-2020, first question by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The exclusion of new businesses from a repayable advance". Here, you have the floor, Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the epidemiological crisis which hit the country has, of course, also hit thousands of businesses. Some have received a total blow, and among them are new businesses, i.e. businesses that opened up in the time of the crisis or just before, whether in the last few months of 2019 or in the first few months before the pandemic took place in 2020. Many of them have invested a lot of capital, hired staff, closed down in spring and now in November, found a market seated, as the fall in consumer spending is estimated at more than 25% and at the same time, did not have the reasonable time to build a client list and store even one working capital. These companies that have necessarily closed down in the first lockdown had in the first phase taken a EUR 800 bonus that we understand is not actually enough. And in the second lockdown some of them, with the data we have at the moment, seem to be not getting, because they do not meet the conditions for the turnover 20%, which has been set, because when they opened in the last few months of 2019 or the first of 2020, their twigs were too low because they were businesses that were just starting. There is, of course, an interpretative problem in Article 3. They are likely to fall under the case where they take business independently, the ones listed in Annex 3, as it says. However, I have seven cases, which I shall be presenting in the Minutes, which meet the conditions set out in Annex 3 and which are not included, and which have not been rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u77	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Kamine, for the question. Indeed, the question of new businesses is a very difficult technical problem, because all the philosophy of returning is to have a turnover so that we can compare and know what to be given to every business. Because the whole secret of this measure is that it works automatically. There is no state body that examines the data, namely the company. You realise that this would be absolutely impossible, given the number of businesses and the complexity of each operation separately. An algorithm works. It is precisely because your observation is correct in advance 4, which half is non-refundable, we have included the possibility of new companies with two benchmarks. One is February 2020, namely what happened before the pandemic, and if it has no positive turnover in February 2020, the turnover we use is July and August 2020, which were the best two months, if you want - especially August - during the pandemic, to compare with September - October, to see what we can give. Interestingly, until today at 12 noon, four hundred nineteen thousand requests for a refund have been approved. We are talking about a huge number of companies of all kinds and size, mainly with twice the presence of businesses than before with workers. This means that there is a protection shield for the workers of these enterprises, because they are committed by the businesses who take the money to keep the jobs uninvited by the end of March. Of these, 12 thousand three hundred sixty new businesses were approved. We therefore finally have a significant number of new businesses that have been approved and will receive assistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Kamines has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u80	Minister, I fear that we remain at the same time, because the February 2020 turnover, as you can see, is, in fact, a business that opened in the last quarter of 2019 or in the first months of 2020 does not solve the problem. However, I will put out in the Minutes the seven companies for which I have information, which are not likely to fall under even the new criteria you have adopted. I'd like to hear how it's going to happen? With circular, oral instructions to the services, how? So the new elements I will present are seven companies, which I fear do not meet the criteria for the turnover, and it is reasonable not to meet them from the point of time they have opened. However, I would like it to be considered whether they fall within the very next paragraph, where they now receive a refund of an amount of EUR 300, provided that they have a minimum of EUR 300, as long as they fall under Annex 3, which is attached and which has regulatory effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u81	Until Mr. Skylakakis leaves the children you are in the Minutes take a photocopy to give it to the Minister, take it with him. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. We must take this into account. The returnee we are now giving is the repayable advance 4, covering the months of September and October. Refund payment 5 will cover the months of November and will probably - tomorrow will come out of the final announcement - and December. The returnees from September are a single set. Therefore, the company that had no turnover criteria in September and October, given that we have lockdowns in November and December, will acquire relevant turnover criteria and will be able to obtain money for the whole period. The same will apply - it is very likely - to the next repayable advances, as long as we need to use this measure. Consequently, none of the new undertakings mentioned will be excluded from the repayable measure, including those months. It's just impossible to give money without a criterion. The tick criterion is the only objective criterion, because otherwise we should look at tens of thousands of new businesses - I said to you now for twelve thousand sixty-one who took - the business plan and assess what business plan would provide for, the business plan, the business plan, the company in question. Unfortunately, this cannot be done, nor can we know exactly what each operation is doing. The whole secret of the Returner is automation. No human hand, no political intervention, no money coming out of the algorithm. They include - when we talk about hundreds of thousands of businesses - and some inevitable injustices, but it is so important that these hundreds of thousands of businesses should be strengthened, which we really need to move on to - and we will see on the way how we can help these businesses better, after the next cycle of return is finished. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u83	We move on to the debate on the last question today, which is the fourth under No 527/109/14-10-20, and to ask and ask for documents from the reporting cycle, questions, the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on 'Inadmissible indifference to the damage caused by the restrictive measures on the producers of aromatic plants'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, this is the third time that this question is being debated in Parliament's plenary and it is indicative that there are too many activities that have not been supported by the state, at least to the extent that they needed it, because there has not been a systematic way of characterising these businesses as affected. In particular, there is the example I mentioned since April, which concerns the producers of aromatic plants. While the issue had been raised by me and you and the Ministry of Rural Development, there was no procedure for assessing this proposal for the inclusion of the CAR affected. The result is that it is not in any support measure, except for the one time that has not been a precondition for joining the Reimbursable advance - if I am not mistaken it was the third or fourth - the designation of the CAR. However, a number of programmes such as those of the regions, such as other facilities relating to cheques or other measures, have not touched the producers. In the reply you gave last week in writing, you state that ‘the primary sector, including the cultivation of aromatic plants, has been supported by a package of measures’, etc. You are referring to a repayable advance of EUR 150 million, to one, as I have told you. Within 150 million is not included. Also, underneath you refer to a number of codes of trade, imports, trafficking, which are the people affected and the people - and rightly so - but lacks production. How, then, is the trader affected by a particular product affected and the producer of the product is not considered to be affected? That's just a question. The Ministry of Rural Development has not included the specific producer category in EUR 150 million and the simple request to you is the designation of the CAR. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kegeroglu, thank you for the question. I don't know if you know that, but it happens in my previous life, before I take over the duties I took in July, to be the same producer of aromatic plants, so I have a very specific view of what is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u87	And to keep you from being blamed, people are fucked!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u88	I want us to get in depth here. If producers of aromatic plants are cooperatives, they are usually cooperatives or producer organisations, etc. carry out and trade, so they can be included in the affected SMRs, if they have their respective activities. It is not true that the returner is not included. The truth is that from the first returnee up to now there is a possibility for businesses, so long as they are not individual businesses without workers. So those who were larger producers of aromatic plants and who had workers or had any legal form other than the individual undertaking, that is to say, the farmer who had workers, were in here. Farmers are now included - not the special scheme, the professional farmers - in Prepayment 4 and for the period September - October have the help of the Returnee to the extent that there is a reduction in turnover. In relation to the Ministry of Agriculture, what we have done is that we have allocated a sum of EUR 150 million and the Ministry of Agriculture observes developments in the sectors and comes after some consultation and suggests us and, respectively, we are helping this sector on the basis of the Ministry of Agriculture's proposal. This is the picture of how we deal with this issue. In any case, since November - December will be two months that the Returnee will be operating again, farmers who have a reduction in their turnover will be able to intervene. You will allow me to comment: Farmers are very difficult to measure when they have a reduction in turnover, because it is a function of when prices are to be made and others can be sold very easily, since they have fresh and cannot be made available at a certain time and others are in a little better because they can use drying. As you know, an important part of aromatic plants goes for extracts and drying, i.e. they go to processing. Therefore, there is the possibility, other than in fresh, absorption of the product.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u90	Although producer, you had a contradiction in your position. You told me in April that you were a producer. I was hoping that your knowledge of the sector would help. The truth is that only in the previous Returnee, which was not a prerequisite for the affected CAR, were indeed integrated. And of course, as you said before, in the next period of the current period, they will be beneficiaries. However, it is a series of programmes and measures that require the simple designation of the CAR as a affected person. Let's assume everything you've said is true. What is the reason for not being labelled as affected by the CMR of production and being labelled as trade? You are right today to say that if the cooperative is marketed, it is considered to be affected indirectly, etc. We're talking about a few producers. You know that. There are not thousands of producers of aromatic plants in Greece. There are few producers. They do their production and they sell it. Therefore, they cannot join, where necessary, as a result of having been affected by the CAR, because they have one particular CAR, in 128/3001. That's the crop. The other traders, 4637/1001 and so on, have joined. But here we are talking about producers. I would also say for reasons of moral justice - you say that there is no economic benefit from now on - that it must be the people affected. This thing can't be done. It can't be done. And I don't know why the Ministry of Rural Development has not made a programme for them. At 150 million there is not even a single euro. The official reasoning given by the Minister, who was in the government headquarters the other day, was: "But no request has been made by a collective body". Where and where? Where does it say that every SAR is obliged to join a collective body? What Constitution says it or what law? They may be cooperative, may cooperate, may be traded. It's not mandatory. He presented it to us as something compulsory. "After he didn't come," he says, "request from a collective body, how do you like it?" [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When the Member submits from March, April, to the Ministry of Rural Development and says'see this case of hundreds of producers' - is it not thousands - 'working on this difficult subject, study and assess', is it not in their knowledge when we put it through parliamentary control? It's in their knowledge. So there's one problem I haven't understood. What you said is a way out. But you know it's a change of activity. When you are a producer of fresh, which moves to the food market through the central market, through the local market and goes mainly to the focus - home consumption is not a large proportion, but the focus is a large proportion - it is a change of activity to say to him "go now to make it dry." This is a business activity, but different. Not everyone's been practicing it. Those who do have the way out, even though we have to say that this is a different thing, want a different infrastructure, want a distillery. You know very well that they are part of customs law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u91	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u92	I mean, they'll get permission from customs, like they're distilling to get into this activity. I would say that you can and should give the designation, even for moral justice, Minister. And don't feel guilty because you're a producer, you might have worked in reverses, negatively. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u93	This is where the greens are burned and the dry ones are saved. Backwards than they say. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u94	Let me tell you. There are two kinds of aromatic plants, but they're all in the same CAR. There are aromatic plants that go to the aromatic industry. It is mainly in northern Greece many of them and their distillery. For example, the lavenders. There's a lot of stuff there most. There are vegetable herbs. There are far fewer producers - to them I think you're referring to - who can make royal, etc. They're being given dried, but it's another market. You're right. The truth is that a distillery for aromatic plants exists in Crete too and it is good. It's not easy to change activity. The point is that this CAR includes a large number of unaffected companies - they are the ones that go to the perfume industry - and a much smaller number of firms that go to the focus. This difficulty of the SMRs not only in this particular matter, but on too many issues it is that it creates a failure to manage both differently. I mean, you have a 70% that probably doesn't get hurt and maybe a 30% that gets hurt. It's something that I personally will examine to see what we can do for herbaceous herbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u95	This concludes the debate on the topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-30-S1-commons.u96	With the agreement of the House at 17.06. the sitting on Wednesday 2 December 2020 is closed at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
