ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Urgent arrangements to deal with the catastrophic consequences of the Mediterranean Cyclone "Jan" course, further measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID pandemic -19 and other urgent provisions." Also, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, as well as the Minister of Economics, Foreign and Health, submitted a draft law on 25-9-2020: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding in the field of Sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Republic of Azerbaijan". It's also topical. The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, as well as the Minister of Finance and Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on 25-9-2020: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding for Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the General Welfare Authority for Youth and Sport of the United Arab Emirates". The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, as well as the Minister of Finance, Foreign and Health, submitted a draft law on 25-9-2020: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding in the field of Sport between the Olympic Committee of the State of Qatar and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic". The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, as well as the Minister of Finance, Foreign and Health, submitted a draft law on 25-9-2020: "Definition of the Protocol on Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Physical Education and Sport of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria". Finally, the Ministers for Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Labour and Social Affairs, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy and State tabled a draft law on 25-9-20: ‘Amendment of Law 4557/2018 (A 139) on the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing — Incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/843 (L 156) and Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2019/2177 (L 334)’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. After the announcements, we shall proceed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u3	Wait, sir, to hear the suggestion. What are you asking for on a point of order without having heard the recommendation? So what's the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK One discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: “Urgent arrangements to deal with the catastrophic consequences of the Mediterranean Cyclone “Jan”, further measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID Pandemic -19 and other urgent provisions.” The above bill, following the decision of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, on a proposal from the Minister responsible, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(5) of the Constitution and Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 September 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, single on the principle, articles and amendments. As you know, registration will be free. When Mrs. Vulture goes up, she'll open the registration system. When Mrs Papanatsiou comes down, the registration system will be closed. On this subject, first of all, and not on the point on which Mr Heitas wants to speak - which he will take immediately afterwards - is there any objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, will there be a roll-call vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u6	Mr Loverdos, the Bureau has so far not been informed of this by any party. So far. However, as Mr Loverdes put it, it is self-evident because - as I said - at 6 p.m. we have parliamentary control if a party in an article or a whole wants a roll-call procedure, in time, please inform the Bureau so that the Chamber can also know. Mr Heta, you have the floor for two minutes on a point of order you have told me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor. I would like to inform you, the Bureau and the National Representation that after the latest developments we cannot remain unrealistic. And a little while ago we formally tabled it - and I am announcing it to you, Mr President - and we are calling for the withdrawal at the moment of the memorandum of cooperation. the ratification of an agreement to say it more simply, between Greece and Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan, Mr President, with Turkey's synergy over the last 24 hours is attacking Armenia. He commits murders of civilians and atrocities against our Armenian brothers. So, at the same time, he comes to the National Representation and was filed on 25 September, the New Democracy Government submitted to the Greek Parliament, this memorandum of cooperation between Greece and Azerbaijan. You realise that it is incomprehensible for the National Representation to discuss with terrorists, murderers who are currently attacking Armenia. The above memorandum to which I am referring, this ratification of an agreement that comes to the National Representation, is to be discussed tomorrow, as you said a moment ago, and then to be put to the vote. Given the developments that must be followed - we cannot turn our backs or stubbornly close our eyes to everything that is happening - we are asking, Mr President, for the immediate withdrawal of the Greek cooperation agreement - Azerbaijan. Again, it's unthinkable. We have formally tabled this to the President of Parliament, and we ask you, of course, for it to be distributed to all the parties' leaders, so that they can be informed accordingly. Mr President, you have shown as the Bureau that you are aware of this very well, on the one hand, of the delay in the introduction to plenary of the Greek Solution for the establishment of an Examination Committee for Skopje, but also of the sanctions imposed on Skopje, which, as it turns out, have not yet been introduced into Parliament. So I repeat that the Greek Solution formally asks - and we really hope that it will happen - for the withdrawal of the ratification of the Agreement with Azerbaijan. It is not possible for terrorist civilians to be killed and for us to discuss cooperation with murderers here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u8	I cannot give you an answer on the substance, nor am I any other President-in-Office. But you sent a letter to the President. So tomorrow the President will make his agreement with the government and it may also happen what you say or not, but I cannot tell you and neither can I take a position as President-in-Office. As Kaklamanis, however, I can take a stand and clearly take a stand in favour of the Armenians. Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking today about a very important bill, which has arrived in Parliament at an incredible speed. I hear from our previous meetings, and I see that there is a dimension between what we are talking about here and what is going on outside the Chamber, that is, I hear a criticism - and I saw the post of Chief of Officerial Response on Saturday - that the government, the self-government and the media drowned the flooders for the second time. Of course, that is not the case, and I wonder how it is possible to make a criticism that has nothing to do with reality. Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA and all those who exercise this criticism know, firstly, that from morning to night the media play scenes, news, reports from the affected areas with testimony and live images. I also heard the criticism that the army does not take part. It is known to everyone that the army is taking part with officers and soldiers, with machinery, sharing seven hundred daily food portions it prepares. So this criticism is not the case. The Finance Ministry bill arrived at an unprecedented speed. If you think that the disasters occurred on 18 and 19 September, the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs began on 24 September. The first decisions were already made before this bill came to us, namely the suspension of tax obligations, the compensation to households, EUR 600 for the first needs, plus EUR 600 for the multitude, plus EUR 600 for the disabled, EUR 6 000 for the construction and EUR 4,500 for the event of a injury. And a total amount of EUR 50 million was immediately announced to the regions by the Ministry of Interior and Infrastructure. At the same time, you all know and know that in these areas, the stadiums of ELGA continue to record damages, while Minister Stagioras has announced that damages that are not normally expected to be compensated will be compensated. The steps of the Ministry of Infrastructure were already in place on 24 September to announce specific figures: three thousand forty-five buildings with damages etc., three thousand twenty-six checks within three days and I do not think that one should remember such a speed in the past. Today we are called on to vote for allowances of EUR 5 000 per natural person and EUR 8 000 per undertaking, all inconsistent and unreasonable with any public debt, housing assistance, suspension or regulation of loan obligations, participation of enterprises and free professionals affected by the repayable advance IV, suspension for one year of the auctions and seizures of mobile and immovable natural persons and businesses, protection of jobs with suspension and compensation for the special purpose together with the Christmas gift, extension of workers' contracts with the relevant services of the Ministry of Infrastructure. And all of these are measures that I think nobody can disagree and they can't even be misled. Now, I want to say something. SYRIZA once again pretends to be the protector of the poor and the weak and the victim of the system. He tells us that, with the gun on the head, what happened over his days, as if we, as if we, had no gun on the head, when the SYRIZA partner called us "prosecutors", "German germancholi" and "Tsolakoglou". So you cannot now speak about the protection of the public sector, since, in your memorandum, after all known catastrophic heroism, we have arrived in this memorandum, with which the entire public property was transferred to the excess. Here in this Chamber, all the relevant laws, with which it was automatically and without consideration, were passed on to the supreme degree of deprivation of public participation in many state-owned enterprises. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] By FEK all these companies went to the GOD. Now we're talking about OSE, OAS, ELTA, not to talk about it again, OSE, PPC, etc. These were public sector and were suddenly found in the supranational, which has become a guarantor for Greece's loans. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now you're pretending to be the defenders of the first home, and you're bailing against the banks. You can't do that either, because the banks closed them up with five legislative acts, before the ridiculous referendum on the matter. The deposits from about 180 billion dollars, which was in October 2014, when we were supposedly out of the memorandum were 145 billion dollars. So we had an outflow of deposits. The stock market value of the banks fell in Nadir from 33.4 billion to 33.4 billion dollars. in 2014 to 8.3 billion ecus. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue and gives rise to the entry of additional And the banks, of course, while you were vowing from the first memorandum that they would be subject to public control, never entered not only under public control, but they were completely left behind, they were cursed, the foreign funds on SYRIZA, which you called 'destruction' - n.4354, you know that. So now, while the government comes and takes steps for the affected, as far as the auctions are concerned, you come with an amendment and, while you know that a law on this issue is on the table, you say that this must be a general provision for the whole country, and it is going to come a law permanent, not extensions that one was worse than the other. Because you know very well that electronic auctions have been voted on again in SYRIZA. I put this in the Minutes too, it is the Government's Press Leaflet for auctioning using electronic means. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was another multi-brand plan, in 2017, because we had an assessment and a memorandum at the time, and when the medium-term framework for the fiscal strategy was adopted, in 2018, you remember that together with the beastly surpluses, and the possibility for foreign funds to have a seat outside Greece came the obligation for banks to inform about the sale of a loan to a foreign fund for twelve months earlier, you predicted that this can be done with a simple mail or sms and of course you reduced the time for the reopening of a auction of thirty days that was at eight o'clock. So you cannot now say that you are defending the first residence, because it is clear that by your own laws we have reached the point where we have arrived. And with that amendment you made, it was until December 31, 2019 and the protection of first residence ceased in February. So when we say things, we must take into account and what our works are and what our own days are. You also know that, in addition to the beneficial measures to which I have referred, the bill includes measures to combat the pandemic, as regards HNVIA and the extension of VAT reduction to certain islands, such as the deduction of advertising expenditure for the 2020 and 2021 tax years, so that companies can be advertised and consumption stimulated, but also to strengthen the media, which is their main revenue. And you know very well that advertising has fallen vertically, because businesses have found themselves in total weakness. It will not benefit the great, as you say, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. It is not only the large ones who are already offering jobs, but also the small and medium-sized ones. Because I do not understand why there is the argument: 'What does a company in Lianocles need?'. That's our difference. We want businesses to be blooming and able to advertise and display their services and products throughout Greece, not only in large cities. Another point I would like to say is that this bill also approves EUR 118 million for the recruitment of educational staff, in addition to the EUR 200 million that was again. But I don't hear that sound anywhere. I only hear one general criticism, because no rooms were found. What rooms? Schools are built with earthquake regulations. Who's going to take responsibility? Who's gonna put his signature on a room that's going to be found somewhere? That is why the whole world has not found any rooms - I assure you - and the rotating systems, etc. for demonstrations by students. abroad, students are protesting for the opposite reason they are protesting here. Because rooms cannot be found, ladies and gentlemen. There are no schools built. No one's built schools since the beginning. And in Italy, that's why they teach the parks. Because the area is earthquake-like, and they were even afraid of the ones I was talking about so much, because they don't have children in the event of an earthquake how to get underneath it. When we say something and get distracted from one country and on the other, we say "Why didn't the Treasury give us a monochrome?" to think about where they come from and what happens. Let's think of our responsibilities. Who's gonna sign that these are going to be used? Who's gonna be responsible when there's an earthquake? I see now, however, that the extra money provided by the Ministry of Finance for teachers is not projected anywhere. I've never heard of it anywhere. How do you say the 'blocked' media don't tell us that from morning to night? Why don't we listen from morning to night to night to the flooding measures, which are extremely beneficial? I see all the notes - you know from professional experience - and I have not seen this subject very much, nor as a response to the occupations. We've got occupations. A person, a "buckle" you say and say, "One minute, Parliament is voting for another 120 million tomorrow." I didn't see that anywhere. And I see no answer to Mr. Kalogrisa's question, who said he was front and showed his left face the business to become "SYRIZA Channel". And now, some people are looking for three million euros - say - and they're in court. Information - because the main category is this - that is, the article of the bill on the need for information - is important... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u10	Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Information is very important. With the free messages of the National Broadcasting Council, of which I have been a member, this work is not done. Because a channel, any channel, must have revenue. So at the Prime Time, we're saying, he's gonna put on the people who pay him to live, pay the workers, and there's a pluralist briefing. In the summer where the messages were free, I saw these free messages about the masks in the children at 12 o'clock. They don't. We have a free economy. He tells you: "The one who will pay to be able to live will go before time." Free was always like that. That's why they never had a performance on what we did from the ERR and wondered why. The previous campaign was a success. There may have been some mistakes, but they took part in a thousand and thirty-two media. To make mistakes in two, three, four, five cases. Nobody took 3 million to set up a channel. The law to be used is 2016. It's an emergency. You know very well that the journalistic associations that came here also said: "We are aware of the need for speed." You know very well that a contest can't go so fast. Secondly, I have also seen the amendment to the Change Movement on Criteria and so on. In the first phase, as the Minister himself said, he will go to the Greek-wide. We've given them permission. He's paid the state money. Obviously, there is evidence of this and it will be done. Although you know this is very relevant, because a channel generally may not have a lot of spectacle and that show and you might want to put it there. In other words, influence plays a very big role. He can be just one man, but he has a lot of influence in the world and his own show has to play. The criteria cannot be fully objective. But they can be relevant. And there is no doubt that it will be done. Look, I think we all agree on measures of benefit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u12	Your Honor, you're closing up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are differences in what I have referred to. It is obvious that we want to do this information campaign. And we'll do it because it's necessary. Anyone, of course, can vote for whatever they want. We have a democracy. From there, however, until you say this attack to the press again, while the press, the media, have collapsed, first, so much. Secondly, they are the only tools we have in our hands to get into the homes. Honestly, I don't understand that. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you need to change your account because you have ruled. And from the ten memorial years to which you refer, half of them are yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u14	Please clear the Step. The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mrs Catherine Papanatziou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of severe bad weather, but also to all the citizens affected. Climate change is deepening and evolving. You may have discovered it after the July 2019 elections, but we understand it as a turning point, where it really should make us revisit several points from the policies we are proposing. These could be from taxation to environmental protection conditions and to where we should turn economic development. So issues such as climate change, the reduction of inequalities, industrial relations, fair growth, prosperity and all together in the light of economic growth and the shadow of the fourth technological revolution will be the problems of the next period. Unfortunately, however, the extraordinary weather phenomena come at a time when the majority of citizens are being pushed by the management of the consequences of the pandemic. In the course of the discussions, serious objections were raised. And you will have to answer them. Question One: I have to reiterate the procedure you have followed for once, tabling a major bill at dawn. Taking advantage of the situation from theory, introduce provisions which have nothing to do with the exceptional need of the regions, while, on the contrary, are gifts to specific circles. That's unacceptable. Understand, you are accountable for the last euro of our fellow citizens. Obviously, here I am talking about the regulation on over-premises of advertising expenditure and the in-white direct award procedure for public information messages, about the pandemic. The first provision gives millions of euros, indirectly harming the public, to large businesses, which are also the only ones, which are advertised in the middle of an unprecedented economic recession. First of all, we should note here that every publicity campaign on health issues should be free of charge from the media. The arrangement that comes is as if nothing has happened with the Pecha list and you are doing exactly the same, you are establishing a new list of Pechas, i.e. without transparency, without transparency, without contests, with direct awards and even without any tariffs. The acquisition of consents and consciences is called this, gentlemen of the government, rather than media funding. You give public money to the Greek-wide channels, as Mr Petsas told the committee on Friday, so that you can be slashed from morning to night, devouring the situation, separating and distorting events. Now, of course, you're trying to get the principal Prime Minister out of the camper, who said his government was not involved in sharing money in the media, as a company was simply selected. He did not say a word about the procedures that led to this decision, nor about the circumvention of the existing framework. What do you think is public money, gentlemen of the government? Your personal property? We have asked you to withdraw these provisions and you have not actually answered anything specific. Especially for depreciation, you said that whoever knows from an economy knows that the market will move. I ask you: Who knows from an economy or who understands that very large businesses must be supported at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises? Do not confuse your ideology with reality, ladies and gentlemen. We have explained to you, too, in the committee with the example of a company which, if it gives another million for advertising in 2020, is equal to what it paid in 2019, doubles the expenditure, in order to deduct it instead of a million that it actually paid, two million euros. Indeed, if damage occurs, you will also be able to transfer it to five years in order to be able to depreciate it. We all know that the market needs the money for the consumption of employees, which you have compressed, while small and medium-sized enterprises do not need any discounts on advertising expenditure, but rather on non-refundable aid, as we have stressed and formally tabled in our programme. So who are you doing this for? It's a second question. Instead of going to more specific measures because of the combination of natural disasters and disasters from climate change and the health crisis and after you have visited the affected areas late, you have announced what already provided for in the mechanism set up in the Ministry of Interior in 2018. No new aid measures, no additional aid to deal with the unprecedented disaster. That's a third question. In the article entitled "For the Protection of Jobs" you follow the pandemic, showing your monologue. You are subsidising the suspension of contracts of employment by making them conditional on them being secured for three months. And we ask you with all honesty: Do you think that this model has worked to protect jobs? Or do you consider it useful, because that means more, cheaper and even more flexible workers? Claim fourth, on ENPY. The delay in the settlements of the EMCDDA creates a number of problems for citizens and their planning to serve their debts. The citizens who have seen their incomes fall due to old age and shortages in government planning have been entitled to correct and valid information about their obligations. By the way you enter for the first instalment payment you do not give an incentive to those who will choose to pay now. But in addition, you do not give any facility to those who choose to make use of the possibility to pay both doses together. How people will do that doesn't seem to be bothering you. In addition, it must be answered why the provision for the abolition of HPAI on the smaller and extreme islands, where on the basis of the explanatory statement there is a further delay in the adoption of the clearing house, comes a year after the Government of the New Republic rejects the respective amendment to the SYRIZA. Last point on HIS. In 2018 we voted for a provision from the Ministry of Finance on natural disasters and damaged properties. This provision is still active and has referred to HICP discharge for the year of natural disaster. If we consider that it covers part of the affected, the records of the damage should be recorded immediately and quickly. If it doesn't cover them again, I invite you to see and see to it that it covers all the cases. A fifth question concerning VAT. SYRIZA's proposal is a reduction in VAT on the focus from 13% to 6% for the duration of the crisis. However, it should be noted that as far as the theatres, cinemas and concerts are concerned, spaces which have never substantially exceeded the Lockdown phase, VAT reduction is a gift of gift. On the substance, you have done absolutely nothing for the workers in culture. What is the essence of extending the reduced rate when there is no consumption and when you close these places every fortnight? Question 6, three important points. Why are you excluded from the subsidies under the first article semi-finished dwellings, gentlemen of the New Democracy? I am waiting for an answer from the Ministers. If, in other words, a citizen built his house and found him in the meantime, it seems that he will not be compensated. Let's go to the auction suspension piece. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Vultesis, has mentioned the amendment we tabled on the suspension of auctions until the vote on the new law, which, as you said, comes from next year. But until then, from what Mr Mitsotakis said at the IGC, there must be a suspension. Mr. Mitsotakis said it's not something we're going to. We're just serving you right now. We are tabling an amendment to implement the announcements made by the Prime Minister and we invite you to vote in favour of it if you want to be honest and follow what the Prime Minister has announced. We now go to the suspension in today's bill, up to 30-9-2021 every enforcement act in the affected areas. However, I also asked the committees, what happens with the procedures that have been completed or completed this week until the law was passed. How you plan to protect these citizens. Although the disasters include huge plant and animal capital, there is no mention in the bill of support, compensation and relief measures for affected farmers, farmers, beekeepers and fishermen. You must immediately proceed to disaster recordings. We have also proposed some way with overall estimates to speed up the procedure for compensation. In closing, we have another effort of the government to make this crisis a chance. In the context of meeting the needs created by theory, a bill comes in which provisions are introduced unnecessarily under the title. The bill seeks to cover two different needs of the citizens, on the one hand, the natural disasters and those of our side, which it considers urgently to strengthen the media and, in particular, the pan-Hellenic channels and large businesses. You've been reconstructed with both needs, and the second, once again, overshadowed the first. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis is becoming more and more noticeable to the workers in the low and medium-sized sectors. The pandemic and health crisis exists and is exacerbated. The government has strengthened the sense of civil insecurity, leaving the majority unprotected. Society has given you the time to prepare and you have taken this collective response as a consensus in authoritarian policies and graceful provisions to your "women". We, having submitted an in-depth support programme, have focused on the social processes triggered by your own management. Where you see turmoil and occupations, we see students who ask for selfish, smaller parts and protection. Where you see civilization workers in black, we see our culture, our heritage and those who support him. Where you are propagandaing that everything is going well, we see and hear dissatisfied professionals, insecure workers and armies of young unemployed people. Where you see irresponsible young people in the squares, we see the new generation he wants, he can and must live otherwise. And where you see war and trespassers, we see hunted fugitives. Propaganda and falsification of reality have been a way of getting to power, but now it will not take you away, as those affected by your policies do not expect the enhanced media to know the situation. On the contrary, they experience her every day. The situation on all the above fronts escapes you and you self-sufficient yourself. We will monitor and follow the social movement, not to move your finger, but because the support of society and our class position in it demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u16	E-mail records are over. Close the system and step up the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the climate crisis in combination with the new dangers that emerge worldwide, such as health care, require that man and the environment be refocused at the heart of policies. We, at least in the Change Movement in the new social democratic proposal that we have worked on for sustainable development, have again placed man and his needs at the heart of this policy leading to greater progress for man, the environment, for our place, for the future. Whenever a natural disaster affects our country - and not a few times with the loss of human lives - two important problems arise in the state: the weakness and the constant switching to modernisation of the prevention system and the codification of a stable institutional framework to address the impact of natural disasters. Of course, there is sometimes a more critical problem, the lack of reflexes and ability to coordinate and manage crises by high-level executives. The state mechanism, despite chronic weaknesses, does not always have the same low performance and this thanks to the human potential that almost always works with self-sacrificing and difficult conditions. We had effectiveness in 1999 - I quote - in the Attica earthquake, weaknesses in 2007 and invention of an alibi, such as the general wind. The same happened in Mandra in 2017 and much worse in Matti in 2018, which also coincided with the weaknesses of the state and the inability of high-ranking executives, while now the “Jan” has made the so-called ultimate state triple even though the N.4662 for the National Crisis Response Mechanism has been passed for nine months. In Evia a few days ago, “112” was not used on the grounds that it is not a tool for any disease. But even in Carditsa, as the mayor admitted, some did not get the message because telecommunications fell, a message that, of course, stood too late anyway. On Friday, I was amazed by the three regional directors who spoke as irresponsible commentators, putting questions and requests without presenting what they did in the context of their responsibilities, because their competence is to design, study, build and maintain anti-military works, implement and enforce all necessary preventive measures to address emergencies. Regional civil protection coordination bodies run EUR 818 million from the MAGPs. Perhaps the two new Regional Directors, Mr Spanos and Mrs Kratsa, as I said in the committee, who are young to mean that the responsibilities are those of the former, Mr Bakoyannis and Mr Galatsatou. Of course, any responsibilities of regional authorities do not relieve the government and the central state. There are findings, such as the Independent Commission of 2018 in the basket of useless, inapplicable laws of a so-called state of service drowning in the shallow and choosing emblematic solutions each time, such as those promoted by the Government. The bill we are discussing is not the logic of an integrated plan, since it covers, in fact, in a poor way, the part of direct horizontal support - it only covers - and is unable to present or even launch a long-term measure. It is incomplete, as it could directly regulate issues and define procedures and do not refer to ministerial decisions, which are sure to add delays. First of all, I have to say that there is one issue with the tables of the people affected. It is different from Article 1 and where it refers to jobs and there are no counties that have been affected, such as Heraklion and Elias. In Heraklion he may not have had any damage to houses and businesses, but he has had enormous damage to the construction site of the new airport built. The rural and municipal roads were destroyed and flooded and destroyed. It's not even mentioned. You are very detailed - and this has given me an impression - on the amendment that you have tabled to set up the Damage Assessment Committees in business. Watch out. Apart from civil servants and civil servants from the wider public sector - very well here - there must also be individuals - members of the Chamber of Economic Affairs, of course, but on two conditions: to be the experts and, of course, to propose them to the Chamber of Economic Affairs. Does the accounting officer of an undertaking not apply to you as well as to assess its damage? If that's possible! Please, on a proposal from the Chambers, list the experts in each area can be used. You must add it to the device. Together, of course, with the extraordinary measures for the problems left by the 'January', the Government also brings a number of arrangements on current issues, but which is the question: Wait for the 'January' to bring them under the urgency procedure? For advertising expenditure in the media, were you expecting the 'January'? For the derogating provisions of supplies and works with IT, Institute of the Ministry of Health, did you wait for the "January"? For the doses of HISPIA, for the elections of the service councils in the education that is in November again, "Janu" was expected. Cubeda, however, you do not say about the six hundred occupations and no provision for the hundred schools that are closed because of the coronary. Otherwise, the major point is to save two hours for a service obligation, because two hours will be if the electronic vote is actually implemented, not to say less and there is no need to disagree and consult what day it will be, because there will be very little time. Of course, do not confuse them with the trade union elections. It is also the trade union elections, which should not really be in the working hours, in my own personal view, and other agencies, which deal with other things. Also, now you remembered the educational gaps. We've been telling you since August. It is doubtful whether it will be solved by the provision you are proposing. We will vote, in order to obtain resources from both the NRP and other sources, but not the subject of education. It's the field of your complete failure. You continue the failure of the previous government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for the Change Movement to have an integrated plan to restore the affected areas to their normal function. The resources available from each source - budget, PPP, ESDP, European Solidarity Fund - need to be combined and exploited. The plan must include, in addition to the immediate and subsequent long-term measures, support for affected people, businesses, workers, farmers, farmers, without bureaucracy and time-lags, and the horizontal support of EUR 5,000 and EUR 8 000 must be given directly to the affected and without exceptions. When we say 'home', we mean the residence that stays and its auxiliary functions, whether it's underground or nearby warehouses or anything else, because you don't clear them and there will be problems. You do not put on farms clearly and unequivocally, agricultural warehouses and infrastructure. The personalisation of damage needs to be advanced immediately, and the amendment that needs to be corrected for businesses, for houses and for other infrastructures has been welcome. There must be a suspension of all - do not say it by name - of tax, insurance, municipal and credit obligations and an extension of all deadlines. Any time limit shall be extended until 30 March 2021. And they need to be specialized by the ministries with ministerial decisions. A provision that can enter is the granting of the rightful agricultural subsidies by the OPEKEPE, due to force majeure, without the condition of plant and animal capital, the guarantee of liquidity to owners of dwellings, to businesses, to professionals, to farmers with the guarantee of the public for damages and the reintroduction to normal social and economic life, the withdrawal of all redundancies made on the day of the naturality until the publication of this law - which prohibits them - but has spent a period and paid the full wage to employees, not of EUR 534. The worker in the company - let him be hurt, supported by the state and retreated - must have all the pay and all the rights, not inhibition and repression, work. It is also necessary to extend all the innovative programmes, the minimum guaranteed income, but also the validity of decisions on small and medium-sized enterprises and on other categories and the immediate restoration of access - it has not yet been done - to farms and to remote settlements. The measures of the next few days must be part of the integrated planning, to be more permanent, to support the economy, society and work in the context of productive reconstruction, to be measures to subsidise labour and production rather than to subsidise the suspension. You must finally put the tax relief clause in the affected areas, if you create additional jobs, for every 1,000 euros - we have said it a hundred times - tax-free wages for 1,500 euros. The planned infrastructure and new necessary projects must be implemented with the supervision and State guarantee so that we do not relive the same and that the regional authorities do not relocate. The Change Movement, which has been around the affected since the first moment, is not enough in criticism, but is making concrete proposals to improve measures in order to relieve the affected and normalize life. We will obviously propose 'yes', with the supplements we have already tabled and we will be tabling them. We have a huge issue to discuss in greater detail, which is about media. First of all, on the article on the discounting of advertising expenditure in tax years 2020 and 2021, we are positive, all right, but why is this very process of overdepreciation, as we can call it, not to apply to other businesses, but even to the businesses that have now been affected? For what they do in infrastructure, technology, investment, any means they buy and replace, or any repairs that companies do must have depreciation within the same year and even increased. Why shouldn't it be the same? It's just the same thing to do! We are therefore voting 'yes' on this and we are calling for other businesses to enter. However, I come to the article on the provision on the allocation of advertising expenditure. We are voting against it for the very simple reason that the first time it was supposed to be hasty, all right, we came here, there was no attempt beyond the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which laid down some rules, but there were no more excuses. Let's say there were, we don't accept them, but let's say they existed. Now why the same? Do you think you can influence the media on what they're writing? I'm sure you can't influence them no matter how much you pay, because advertising expenditure is right. Of course, you're unfair to some, and here's the thing. Do you want there to be rules? We have proposed, with our amendment, specific rules, first of all, for the application of the law on 30% of regional and local instruments. The second is the effectiveness of advertising. So viewing, hearing, traffic, visitability, number of workers, real means. Why don't you do it? We have also tabled the proposal to pay this 2, which is - it says - for a communication committee - and I do not know what else is - ethical only from public spending, public enterprises, OTAs and listed listings. Why would the small businessman, the professional for an advertising cost? There's no reason. Furthermore, you must see the amendment that I have tabled to you to remove the problem with the DUs rejecting documents that do not have within 4 minutes corresponding to EUR 200 advertising. For the end of 2, Minister, I said yesterday to Mr Besiropoulos and said that there is no problem. I, who speak with the auditors, have rejected everything, at least in Heraklion, and not in the documents, have rejected the books in the category that these companies are for that reason. We have the issue, therefore, with an institution that is the means of communication, which is linked to the control of power, which we have to agree in 2020 that there are rules, that the Hellenic Republic is not lacking, that it is not disabled in creating an institution of transparency with which every means of writing what it wants and controlling the government and the government to do what is necessary and what it deems right and, of course, the criticism of the other political forces. That is why I call on you to take a look at this amendment with the guarantee of posting all the amounts allocated to instruments. What have you got to be scared of if you're doing your job right? That's the final question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u19	It is only that it is not posted - I am finished, Mr President - that it is a problem and you should see it. I am presenting reports on crop damage, on the rural and municipal roads in Heraklion - they are not throughout the prefecture - they are specific areas where the new international airport, which has been closed because of construction, rivers and has been destroyed, rural and municipal roads. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u20	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr George Lambroulis, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. We also want Stepma from this point of view to express our condolences to the people of the floods, as well as to the tens of thousands of inhabitants of the Ionian Islands, Thessaly, Central Greece and other areas whose homes, shops, vehicles, fields, animals and farms have drowned in water and mud, while major disasters are in transport networks, water, irrigation, electricity and other infrastructure. And precisely this tragic situation that many people are experiencing was not fatal in rendering it to the extreme weather or bad at the moment, but it is the result of the criminal policy of all urban governments, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, as well as their executives in regions and municipalities that have not taken care to plan or shield with modern anti-military works and infrastructures and the specific areas that have experienced such problems and, respectively, to organise civil protection and all services, in order to address the problems posed by weather phenomena. And all this is happening nowadays, where science and technology have made huge progress, capable of dealing with the effects of weather conditions, with analogous natural prevention policy, the creation and construction of all the necessary modern anti-military, anti-corrosion and anti-nuclear works to be done, projects that would provide way out and to thousands of unemployed workers. The fact that all these necessary projects are not designed and implemented is that, for the policy that has served and which serves over time, all governments are not development projects, i.e. they are not of business interest, do not guarantee profits in the business groups, and that is why they are not financed, for example, by the European Union, because they are classified as ineligible. And precisely this policy is the result of the capitalist way of organising our society, which has as its main goal the greatest possible profit, sacrificing human lives. And what proves once again tragic is that civil protection of human life and people's property from climatic phenomena or other dangers, such as industrial accidents, environmental pollution and others, and capitalist road to the organization of society cannot coexist, since the criterion is the profit that leads not only to the intensity of the exploitation of workers, but also to the sacrifice of man for that in weather phenomena, to all kinds of disaster or even to imperialist wars. That's the real culprit. Precisely against this opponent and the policies that support him need to turn their fires on the workers, farmers, farmers, self-employed people, pensioners and their struggle, together with relief measures, to claim the organisation of a whole other society and the economy and services that will serve the modern needs of our people. And exactly what crumbs are provided for in the bill and any promises and the many 'will' that we hear, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as did previous governments, SYRIZA and PASOK, show the limits of the system you are serving, which, even if you wish - which you do not want - you cannot, for example, satisfy not only the enormous problems arising from the floods, but also all the problems that afflict the majority of our people, for which you are all responsible with the policies of time. For only as a challenge to the thousands affected are what the government has announced so far, recalling the well-known saying 'to burn you, my Yiannis, to grind you with oil'. Here, even the allowances of EUR 5 000 and 8 000 provided for in the bill, and in line with what the Regional Governor of Thessaly said to us in committee, but you also admit indirectly through the amendment to support regions with staff to be used in this direction to record the beneficiaries, the affected, photographs and highlights one of the enormous problems of the regions, the municipalities and the state as a whole. And we say that, because in Evia, for example, they are still waiting for compensation, as in the Ionian islands where people are still waiting for compensation from 2014. But it has already been ten days since the last floods, and the regions' inhabitants are trying themselves to cope with the enormous problems that have arisen. In the face of this tragic situation, the measures you are bringing, and indeed through urgent procedures, both for the floods and for the treatment of pandemic, are both fragmentary and inadequate. They are crustaceans that under no circumstances meet the urgently high needs of our people, because apart from the immediate measures such as ensuring food, health care, housing, etc. To the affected, we must immediately complete the records of all damage to houses, shops, crops and go by and say. Compensation should be at 100%, without conditions and conditions, with the responsibility of the state. Also, we need to start immediately and complete the restoration of road networks and the flooding projects that are extremely necessary, because winter is coming. Here and now, a plan must be drawn up and what needs to be done without delay in order to restore the electricity supply and water supply of the regions, and they must intervene directly and coordinatedly in the government, region and municipalities by mobilising all the services responsible for drawing up water, where they exist even to clean up the mud of dwellings, crops and roads. In addition, damages should be immediately reinstated and health units, health centres and hospitals staffed with the necessary staff. All those affected must be financially supported by the State by granting a monthly special allowance to the amount of lost income, such as workers, professionals and farmers, in other words, on the basis of what they would get. Income tax and solidarity tax is required for small businesses, farmers and workers affected. Also, there is a need for exemption from the ENPI's engravement, and not a hypocritical provision of the draft law to transfer its repayment in March, as if then the perpetrators will be able to respond. Furthermore, the debts of all affected, workers, professionals, farmers, farmers in taxi, insurance funds, municipalities, banks, telephones, without increment and interest should be frozen for as long as they are unable to pay. In addition, the recording of damages to plant and livestock should be immediately completed and compensated to 100% without conditions and conditions and without the anachronistic provisions of the ELGA Regulation. In particular for farmers and beekeepers, the statements made by the affected persons on losses to animals and to bee flocks should be accepted, as they have been drifted away or buried in the mud and cannot be found. Furthermore, the State should be responsible for supplying the affected livestock farmers with feed and also with the necessary means to survive their animals. The associated aid should be granted without any condition, limit or cap on the delivery of production solely on the basis of the OSE declaration, while compensation should be paid to 100% for buildings, warehouses, landfills, mechanical and other equipment such as tools, cars, supplies, feed, etc. In addition, state aid should be provided for the restoration of farmed areas that have suffered erosion, attachment, partitioning and going by saying. In these demands of the world, how does the government respond? Because the pedestrians are good, but will problems be solved? We say this because experience so far shows exactly the opposite, as is the case with the issues of tackling public health problems in the context of the pandemic and the second wave of this. Because beyond the time-consuming huge political responsibility of all governments for the tragic state of the public health system, the current explosive situation bears entirely the stamp of today's government policy. You have a huge responsibility, since you played in the gambling of capitalist profits the sacrifices of the people and the time gained by the people in the first phase of the pandemic. In fact, you are coming today and blackmailing the people by putting the dilemma on self-protection or quarantine, furthering your constant tactics to deal with the pandemic solely through individual responsibility. However, everyone's essential self-protection and personal responsibility cannot cover the government's irresponsibility, the old-fashioned, but also the unacceptable policy manifested by the state of the public health system itself to the workplace, where thousands of workers are gathered, but also in the public transport and in the schools, where the crowd is keeping the health protocols and the suggestions of the specialists on their way. In fact, how do you respond to the demands of fighting health and other actors, such as workers and pensioners, for the recruitment of doctors, nurses and all the permanent staff required in public health and hospitals, with particular weight in the primary health care sector, for the development of, respectively, the necessary number of intensive care establishment beds, for the achievement of private healthcare structures and for increasing funding for hospitals and health centres? No commitment, because it cannot - so he said - to do nothing of what you say, because there are legal and economic stumbling blocks. This was the Secretary of Health's response to the demands of the Federation of Hospital Doctors a few days ago to the mobilisations that existed throughout the country by fighters of health in order to seek solutions to the acute problems caused by the public health system. However, these snipers have not prevented you from using pandemics to legislate in a fast-track manner, by way of derogation from the provisions in force, in anti-grassroots, anti-linguistic measures, anti-constitutional provisions, which have reversed labour rights in the 19th century, for example, recently the legitimisation of unpaid overtime work. For all this, there are no legal and economic obstacles and this unscrupulous class policy you are determined, just as the previous governments have done, to implement unreservedly, indifferent to life, health, the rights of the majority of the people, a policy that it considers to be the health of the people at a cost for capital and its state and, on the other hand, a profitable scope for business business business. Proof of this is that, at the same time as the snipers - what we have said, economic and legal - prevent you from strengthening the public health system, you come a few days ago with a joint ministerial decision and give new privileges to the health business groups, pushing them back to customers. Thus, on the territory of the huge deficits in public structures, which are clear to maintain, the private sector will be paid for hospitalisations in simple beds and intensive care units, and clawback and rebate will not be applied as yet another gift that the clinical authorities have persistently requested, while at the same time giving them the opportunity to extend and increase up to 40% of private beds of ICUs without even checking on suitability, which will be done after the end of the crisis, but after patients have been hospitalized. Aren't there really snipers here? However, you do not show it to the necessary measures to protect workers at the workplace in order to keep all the necessary means for their health and safety under the responsibility of the employer. You do not proceed with a decisive reduction in the number of pupils by class or with exceptional funds for mass appointments of teachers and other workers to upgrade infrastructure, cleanliness, hygiene measures and individual means of protection at all levels of education. Of course, for the Government and the Ministry of Education all this, as they have said in the previous period, is a cost. Really, from your pockets will all these necessary funds be provided? Our people have paid for them in the multitude to have health, education, welfare to meet their ever-enlarged modern needs, and you deprive them of them and move them on top of the finger, considering him and responsible if he claims, fighting your policies, which lead him day after day to impoverishment. That is why you are stepping up the repression measures, while at the same time promoting regulations aimed at manipulating workers and by extension of the people. For what is the aim of, for example, Article 13 of the bill, which you are bringing into urgent legislation? So what is the aim of Article 13, in addition to the raw, direct and direct intervention in the functioning of educational organisations, with the provision of electronic voting, namely the vote without the physical presence, without a committee of inquiry, which can ensure that the statutes, which do not allow a dilemma, do not allow? However, your deepest aim is to strike the lively functioning of workers' organisations, where the struggle of ideas and positions shape the attitude of workers and has a positive effect on their involvement in the struggles, on their vindication of their needs, on resistance and on action against anti-Fraud policy. That's what you're trying to stop. We, Mr President, are calling - as we did in committee - for this particular article to be withdrawn from the bill, which is contrary to the respective educational organizations and to the vast majority of the trade unions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speech time of the F Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Mr President, I should like to close with Rule 11 on the allocation of advertising expenditure, for which the Communist Party - we have also said in committee - has tabled an amendment to that effect, which we had in a previous debate in plenary, in another bill. So we're reintroducing it. At that time no parties, much more than the government, had put up with this amendment. What does this amendment say? Two words, Mr President, and I am closing. As we have repeatedly stressed, messages related to the protection of public health, especially to the treatment of pandemic, should be transmitted and registered in all the media free of charge, rather than in terms of advertising campaigns. In all other cases, of course, where, in order to promote ministries, public sector bodies and public sector bodies, the former ECJs, there needs to be expenditure on the media on advertising, this should be done in terms of full transparency and objective criteria, without unacceptable exclusion and without any subsidy for non-existent media, because otherwise the case refers to a transaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u22	All right, hang up, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u23	Finally, in the amendment, what is envisaged is evidence of how the Greek people's money has been spent over the last 10 years to promote public advertising. In view of the above, Mr President, we are voting against the bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u24	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the first debate on the bill Mr. Skylakakis asked whether we agree with his characterisation as an emergency. Our answer was self-evident. This is the government's well-known trap, where the first part of the draft law concerns the urgent needs of society, as the internal troika, namely New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, have become, even in the negotiation of maritime zones with Turkey, that is to say, the kayalitis zone, not just the continental shelf and the AEZ. If that's possible! The other measures, such as the unacceptable reinforcement of media to return this to the government, certainly have no urgent form. It is a trap because if we vote 'yes' in the first place, it will be considered to be in agreement with the media's support, and if we vote 'no', we are not interested in the perpetrators of 'Janue'. We consider this to be a disgrace, a populism of handful form, demagogicism. However, if the government really wanted to support the victims of the 'January' urgently, it would do so with an MDG, as it did in the case of Evia. It did not, obviously, go through the provisions on media. Mr Stagiras has now announced a number of additional measures, including a list of them with the bluefin tuna, as is customary. However, we must remind him that Mr. Skylakakis in his recent interview at "ALPHA 989" pointed out that what we spend is future taxes due to the high debt and the need to maintain market access. In reply to a question, if a new memorandum is provided for in depth, if the country moves to spending, it said it would not be too long. In essence, therefore, he announced a new memorandum, reasonably since the government has EUR 38.5 billion as reserve, instead of increasing the Public Investment Programme to develop the country. In turn, Mr. Vesyropoulos in the second committee, having read, as usual, the main points of the draft law, focused on the myth of successful governance due to the country's borrowing at low interest rates. He wanted to convince us, in other words, that he was talking to fools, that because the government borrowed 14 billion euros, Greece is on the right track, when it goes without saying: Firstly, no one is proud of it when it borrows by increasing its debts, but when it pays them back. Secondly, the interest rate is kept low because the European Central Bank now buys Greek bonds having already made more than EUR 10 billion available, while a central bank can maintain the interest rate even at zero for as long as it wants, irrespective of the amount of debt, as evidenced by Japan. And thirdly, what matters specifically to investments that were to be of more interest than anything else in Greece is the real interest rate and not the nominal rate, where, as we know, it is the nominal plus deflation. This means that in Greece, with an annual deflation at 1,9%, the actual interest rate is 1,18%, with which we borrowed last time, plus 1,9%, i.e. 3,08%, as much as approximately September 2009, which we all know what followed. Again Mr. Skakakis, referring to Article 8 of the bill providing the possibility of tax relief by deducting advertising expenses and which is, in fact, a new list of Petsa from the back door, tried to convince us that facilitating advertising will be positive for the economy. However, we have answered to him that for anyone who knows about business there is no advertising when there is no demand, when he is in danger of closing or closing, as is the case with the other companies that survived the memoranda. Perhaps only the big companies to close the remaining small ones, thus increasing the unbalanced redistribution of the incomes that kills the middle class after the lowest. That is exactly what Article 8 will cause. Finally, Mr Petsas, referred to in Article 11, who allows by way of summary procedures the negotiation of the advertising place for information by the State without publication of a tender notice and without even indicating the cost of the General Accounting Office of the State, has assured us that it will be a total of EUR 2 million for channels, but, in Greece, that is to say, for systems that support his Government. This article together with Article 9, where the end of subscription television is suspended for a year, cost, in the General Accounting Office of the State, EUR 18 million, has a total cost for Greeks EUR 20 million, i.e. just as the first list of Petsa. In fact, this is an indirect rescue for channelling, to support, in turn, the government's unsuccessful policy on the economy, migration and so on, as it now appears from polls. In fact, in which business and in which other sectors of the economy is the state subsidising its turnover? Is these subsidies compatible with the liberalism invoked by the New Democracy? Is this not clearly a measure of the Soviet type to the benefit of the elites rather than the citizens? Is it possible to vote for such provisions that are sown in the bill for the affected? Is it not shameful to use such tricks? In particular, with regard to the suspension of pay-TV charges, we have asked why it is not the same as mobile telephony charges, so as to alleviate the social, which pays the highest telecommunications services in the European Union. As far as the bill is concerned, it has fourteen articles and three parts, where only the first part, with its five articles, refers to aid measures for the damage by the 'January', but by giving its name to the bill, obviously for reasons of misleading. The measures cover the regions of Thessaly, as well as the regional units of Fthiotida, Kefalonia, Ithaca, Zakynthos, Lefkada, Corinthia and Evrytania. Generally speaking, we do not think that it is sufficient, and the world must be compensated for everything that has been lost, especially the companies in the regions, which you are never interested in. However, we appreciate the additional measures announced by the Minister in terms of improving infrastructure. As we have said, however, the unregulated development in the region must be approached, which, if necessary, only serves the great interests. Especially with regard to the famous road around nowhere, E65, the new national manufacturer, TERNA, which is considered to cost the middle blind part, Xyniada - Trikala, up to 1 billion euros together with the expropriations, and now another 350 million euros for the southern end, we noted that he was closed down in bad weather. Wasn't the possibility of a heavy rainfall really predicted? Will responsibility be sought here? However, the ERGOSE tunnel has also been closed due to flooding. It has been an extremely expensive project of the "AKEKORA" project, built for two decades, since 2002, while there have been shadows of scandal that led to great delays, as usual with all these artificial works. Is it possible with the first storm that critical, modern and expensive infrastructures are being misused? Shortly below, in the Sophades Karditsa, in an especially agricultural area, photovoltaics have been constructed on high productivity soils, which have also been flooded and destroyed. Is there really going to be compensation for that too? Will the government take care of their toxic waste? We will continue to add that if a livestock or other production unit has not been damaged, but has been excluded, which means that it will be indirectly damaged, so it must also be compensated. I shall mention the Magnesia Elevator Community, which is a bright example of integrated rural development. The 'January' caused damage to the streets and certain facilities. So, if they stay like this, slowly, this model will be lost. In this respect, we have asked a question which we will be tabling later in the Minutes. In the second part, there are measures to combat the consequences of pandemic and other urgent tax provisions, i.e. some more measures than many that have been launched with scattered amendments. Also, as we've already analysed, a second repetition of the Pecha List. Is it really because of the fall in the government's popularity? Otherwise, we cannot explain why the provisions of this kind are urgently being tabled. In the third part now, with the other urgent tax provisions, we assume that others will be added to the government's friendly tactics, and today there is only one to elect training councils. On the articles now: EUR 5,000 is given to every natural person and EUR 8 000 to every company affected by 'January'. The same amounts, that is, allocated to Evia. The article is the same as for Evia, but it adds sanctions for false declarations. Of course, we doubt whether these amounts are sufficient for the damage suffered by residents, while no cost is paid by the General Accounting Office of the State. We have completed here that the gaps should also be included in the compensation entitlements, and that a time limit should also be set for its payment, because they have not yet been given to Evia. We have recently heard that they will be paid in forty-eight hours, which we cannot understand since this was not the case in Evia. In addition, we have supplemented how insurance companies should be forced to pay, since they usually try to avoid it with various tricks. The second article relates to the non-confidentiality of the allowance, also as it was adopted for Evia. We have asked here to add the misappropriation of bank accounts so that loopholes are not created. The third article suspends seizures until September 2021. We also have doubts here about the adequacy of time, considering that an assessment and a new regulation should be carried out. By continuing, Article 5 is suspended for three months for contracts of employment in undertakings in the region with the well-known allowance of EUR 534, just like the measures of the pandemic, with the Christmas gift being calculated with the allowance and not with the salary, which we certainly consider to be unacceptable. However, we hope that there will be a plan for the next day. We believe that this is the most important thing, so that workers return to their jobs or elsewhere, if some businesses close down, since it is not possible to subsidise workers in the inter-company, no matter how much we want them to. There have been major disasters in land and livestock in these areas, while roads and infrastructure need to be repaired, so that there are no further damage to businesses. In the second part of the bill, Article 6 gives an extension for the repayment of HICP in six equal instalments in five months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Villardo, you need to collect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u27	I'm closing, Mr. President. We consider this to be a mockery, since it does not particularly facilitate taxpayers' extensions with the coup d'état of doses, while we are generally opposed to HNVIA, considering the consumption tax. Unfortunately, there is no time for the following articles. I'll tell my dentist. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u28	The circle of rapporteurs with Mr. Kritonas Arsenis from Mera25 closes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members and MPs, Mr Ministers, firstly as MERA25, we want to express our support for the victims, the victims and the families of the victims from this great disaster again. Before we begin the debate and consider what the government proposes to these people, I would also like to refer to another disaster that has happened these days. It was, for once, another fire in the Ghost dump. For the most part, we had people in neighbouring regions, but also more widely, being closed in their homes, as, as you know, tons of plastics that burned dioxins that are too, but very, very, very dangerous for health. Because when you force people to close in their homes, the SEVESO Directive is being activated and there is an obligation on the state to declare the accident to the European Commission, a key question is whether this statement has been made. I'll answer that. Obviously not, because Greece has not declared any SEVESO accident to the European Commission. And it will never happen, even though the Race burns again and again, even though a waste management site burns every month. It will not be done, because what you are preparing, what you prefer against the European Commission, which rejects you and does not finance you, is the combustion plants of the waste mixed everywhere, but the large combustion plant again in the Race, to burn the Race day after day, every day. We therefore call on you to stop these combustion plants, to do what the European Commission is telling you, which rejected the PPP of Peloponnese built by SYRIZA, but you worshiped, as over-costed, that it violated European directives and ultimately constitutes illegal State aid to TERNA. And you bring this PPP and make it a model that you multiply throughout Greece. We will discuss again and again, as long as the governments and parties that have passed from governance refuse to listen, what is causing these floods, what is causing these disasters. Are rivers and streams flooding when we have extreme weather patterns? Not necessarily. Would it necessarily lead to such a big storm, a cyclone in these damages? Not necessarily, if man doesn't put his hand, if we don't close the beds either by balming or by illegally building or by wrong public works leading to stenosis, if we don't tighten up the natural water flow, if we don't channel all the waters of the Attica Road and the Himitus bypass to a raft, if we don't intervene to ignore this natural disaster. And yet, even though the district managers put it in the debate, you will not do the artworks where they need to be, where we people went, we closed, we built, we prevented the bed. You will forget that once again. But that's the point. What you're going to do are the jargonets, dormant enclosures, all of the things you plan to do from Pikrodaphne to Podonytis to the big Rafina stream to the stream, with all the natural streams left in Attica. That is what you will do and that is your thought of anti-military, because they are the works of the contractors. But it is not the works that were protected by the floods. The people affected offer 5,000 euros to the companies 8 000 euros. For people who have stayed without a home of 5,000 euros in the middle of a coronary, in front of a very likely new lockdown, with people who are affected at the most fragile, most difficult moment of the economy, precisely because of the multiple crisis, the poorening of the memorials and now the coronary. How will these people cope when the situation is dramatic anyway for their businesses, anyway, because of their families, because of the coronary and the crisis? Of course, you are not fully compensated for the damages, you do not make compensation, especially for agricultural businesses. What you are thinking is to transfer some obligations to the public backwards. But how will it save these people, when their businesses are closed, when the local economy has been affected to such an extent that they will not even have this revenue in the future? It really needs a deletion of the public's demands towards these people, because realistically, Minister, they will not have the money. You shall proceed to Article 3 by suspending the substance of the auctions and, in particular, of the seizures. We think it is very right to stop seizures and auctions, but we invite you to do so throughout Greece, because all of Greece is currently in a very deep economic crisis. All Greece currently faces the risk of seizures and evictions. You have brought a bill, a law now, the "HRAKLE", which, if symbolically, marks exactly the way you think, as if these borrowers are the borrowers of Aygia, as if we need to clean Greek society from borrowers and not these thousands of people to support them. We propose another project, Minister, we have tabled it to you, the plan of 'ESTSESEA', which proposes these measures to protect borrowers, because these borrowers are the modern 'Ulysses', which have a titular struggle, an odyssey to get home and their home to become theirs. It is a measure that protects these people, which stops the payment of loans for those who cannot and can keep their home on a rent, socially-based, participatory basis and which - when the market is restored - will enable these people to have the opportunity to regain or buy the rest of the money, to pay the rent or sell their home and to pay the rent for the rest of the money and to keep them the money they deserve anyway. Of course, this plan also covers the issue of the capitalisation of banks that you do not cover with this law. Prolongation of working contracts in Article 4 for fixed-term workers in the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the purpose of restoring impact of natural disasters. But at the rate of these natural disasters now taking place, who in this Chamber does not agree that these are permanent and permanent needs? Minister, I told you again and again, but I don't see you making the slightest statement on this matter. Do you know or do you not know that in March 2020, a few months ago, the Court of Justice of the European Union made a decision which obliges Member States to make any job for any permanent and permanent needs of the contract to be an indefinite one, to be in practice permanent? Is it or not the state's obligation to cover these needs with permanent jobs and, therefore, to be an indefinite one? In addition, Article 5 shall suspend contracts of employment of a party or of all workers for the affected enterprises. It will be possible to say that these businesses may no longer be able to cover payroll, but at the same time to those people who are without work you give the allowance of EUR 534, regardless of what has happened at the moment in their lives in these regions affected, regardless of who they were their previous salary, what their obligations are, at the same time that, as we will see later, the canalarchs give 'white' cheques, Minister. "White" cheques on canalarchs, 500 euros for workers who lose their job, at the same time as giving the "gifts" with the increased discount, tax exemption on specific advertising on the channels, at the same time that you are giving the suspension of payment of a pay-TV fee, which in practice the channels are also benefiting, to be honest. Move along with the big gift, the new list of Pechas to the canals. That's why you didn't bring this bill, you didn't bring these measures by PPP, as you did in any other case, even in cases where it wasn't justified, such as the CTE. You do not bring it into PPAs, so you can have this new list of Petsa, because even your voters are now complaining about what you do and what you do not do about the management of the bug, about what you do not do in public schools, about what you do not do in public health, so it was urgent to bring the new liquidity, the new "gifts" to these businesses. It is impressive that even for education you again propose small contracts to fill gaps. Are those voids in education really empty? Aren't those gaps in education that have not been paid? Aren't we standing and constant needs? Again, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union does not apply. Should these contracts not be indefinite, should these workers be permanent? You did not do what you had to do, that is, create new rooms, so the children in Petroupoli are in possession of the miserable conditions they live and of the danger you expose them because of a coronary of twenty - seven and twenty - eight per class. They could be divided into groups of fifteen people, in order for schools to function and to protect public health, families, children, grandparents and their grandmothers. If you did all this, then you'd need some emergency staff. You, with fixed-term contracts, want to cover the constant and constant needs of education, the permanent gaps. No references, of course, to health in this extraordinary bill, which otherwise included various other things, to health that lives day after day without intensive treatment units, to health that has huge personnel gaps. Half a billion, Minister, I have calculated the cost of hiring, covering all the health gaps, all the gaps in the organizational chart. Is half a billion in front of the billions that are currently spending on tackling the impact of the coronary, in front of the billions you intend to spend on armaments, in front of the 12 billion that you give to the funds that people's homes get for red loans through the “HRAKLE”? A large sum of half a billion to cover all gaps right now in health? Why don't you do it? I'll answer you why. In order not to displease the clinical directors, so that you do not have decent public health, so that the citizens are unable to serve properly to run and give what they have and do not have in the clinics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Arseni, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is your policy, the big gifts in the clinical authorities, the canalarchs and the five hundred euros in people who have been unemployed because of natural disasters and because of the coronary. Mera25 will stand against this strategic choice of yours, which is not even ideological. It will stand against not only by naming, not only on the road by these people, but also by our amendments, to show you how practical it is in this Parliament to apply common sense in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u32	The rapporteurs and speakers have shown a little tolerance. I will also show my colleagues, because in urgency time is 'blocking'. I would remind you, however, that at six o'clock Parliamentary control, which includes sixteen time questions, should begin. The Minister said that he wanted the process to go a little further and then he will speak. I assume that the parliamentary representatives will be waiting for the Minister, but they can at any time ask for the floor. Of the ministers with provisions in the bill, Mr. Economou is here, he is the first. I will give him the floor for three minutes, say about the provision contained in the bill and let him go. Mr. Economou, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the first time the government has taken responsibility for the country's governance until now, the government has been approaching all kinds of emerging challenges and taking all the necessary steps to deal with them. It is now, I believe, a common assumption that we are going through a very short time when the Greek police forces have been called upon to respond to a new enlarged and diversified grid of challenges for the public order, the safety and public health of our fellow citizens. With events in Evros still fresh in the memory of all, but also in our thoughts of what happened a few days ago in the region of Moria, we must come to the needs of Greek Police officials as a Greek state with immediate and determination, taking due account of the circumstances of initiatives that will effectively address the need to maintain an operational readiness for all police forces. We must not forget the daily battle of Greek police officers, both in order to ensure public order and insight into security and against the spread of the pandemic of COVID -19. We also recognise the constant effort of the employees of the penitentiary shops, who, under a climate of understanding and cooperation within the detention shops, have so far managed to keep the pandemic away from a particularly vulnerable population group of detainees, ensuring health and proper operation in their detention areas. This is an unprecedented health challenge, which concerns the whole society, which in turn gives rise to a number of new, additional needs to be met, so that the services of the Ministry of Civil Protection can be effectively protected and attempted in the day-to-day exercise of their duties. With a combination of society to recognise the work carried out by the officials of the Greek Police and the penitentiary stores, we as a state must ensure the necessary logistics and health equipment in the performance of their duties. Our aim is to direct and structure procedures for the supply of all kinds of personal and general supplies, means and services. Today's legislative initiative aims solely at this, enabling targeted supplies to be implemented and completed in the context of the emergency management of migratory flows, as well as preventive measures to limit the spread of pandemic. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has once again demonstrated that it is without doubt alongside the officials of the Greek Police and the penitentiary officials, without, of course, putting the prisoners at second, through legislative initiatives aimed at guaranteeing public order, security and public health, particularly at a critical time for our country. That is why we are also calling for the support of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the list of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Maximos Charakopoulos from New Democracy. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the province of the Farshalls has been in the eye of the cyclone, I will focus my speech on the measures taken in the bill under discussion to support the citizens who have experienced the nightmare of the flood, from which, unfortunately, we have also mourned dead. Undoubtedly, we are talking about extreme weather. I believe, however, that the task of transferring to the National Representation and the Government first, the anger and indignation of the citizens of our province for the flooded to nonexistent cleansing of rivers, canals and rafts, which has increased the consequences of intense rainfall. Secondly, their anxiety and concern about the State's aid, the level of compensation and the time to be compensated, so that they can rebuild their homes in mud and stand back on their feet. Thirdly, their concern for the next day. Will there be an integrated plan to address the flooding phenomena in Thessaly? Is it worth the effort to repair their homes or to the next extreme weather phenomenon, which unfortunately is more and more often, will the river rise and destroy their livelihood again? Ladies and gentlemen, the government has undoubtedly reacted quickly. Under the mandate of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a government step was found on the day following the disaster in the front line, in Farsala and in Karditsa, and immediately announced support measures for the affected. The criticism of the Opposition in this regard was completely unjust and arbitrary. Such hours don't need micropsy. The package announced represents a brave breath for the affected. However, a medium-term plan is needed, which will create the conditions for economic recovery in the region. Civic importance in this design is the Enipe dam at Farsalon Watchtower. It is a breathwork, which has been studied fifty years ago, and unfortunately remains on its papers. The implementation of this palliative request from the province of Farsalon, firstly, will shield the whole pharmacopoeic region, secondly, it will irrigate a fertile area threatened with desertification, and thirdly, it will solve the problem of water supply in the city of Farsalon, which has been drinking bottled water for years. No reconstruction plan in the region will be practically developmental without the Watchtower dam. So it is now necessary to study the work that will change the lives of the Farsala. Ladies and gentlemen, our in-depth citizens in Farsala have asked me to pass on to you, to transfer to the National Representation and to the Government, questions, comments and reflections, in the hope that they will help to better legislate. I think we owe it to them, and that is why I give the floor to them. Michael, George and others at the Cross and other villages ask to be clarified if secondary dwellings are compensated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Seven minutes, we have, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u36	You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u37	Although paragraph 4 of the first Article appears to be compensated, paragraph 8 indicates that owners of vacant dwellings are not entitled to exceptional aid. The issue is important, because many keep a father in their villages, visit them weekends, holidays or summers. If these houses are finally closed, the full desertification of the villages will be accelerated. They ask to be informed who is responsible for cleaning the river bed and the canals poured on it, as well as maintaining the impurities. Stathis, Apostolis and others in Hyperea ask whether the drainage networks will be maintained and whether there will be a more comprehensive study of irrigation works in the province of Farsalon. They request faster damage recording procedures and compensation for their mechanical equipment, damage to tractors and drilling electrical installations. Many at the end of the irrigation period collected the glues in the field’s head, the water tires, and the flood took them. According to the letter of the ELGA regulation, only those that are spread in the field are compensated. I think it would be reasonable to compensate them. George of the King, where we grieved the elderly unfortunate, asks what will happen with the damage to the heating systems, the repair of the burner and boiler. As winter is before the gates, procedures must run quickly. Fotis, Apostolis and all the inhabitants of Dilofos are calling for the rapid restoration of the bridge that connects them to Achilles and Farsala, also necessary for the timely transition of children to school. Similarly, Thanasis and the inhabitants of Narthaki and Kastraki are calling for the restoration of the damaged bridge that connects them to the Trees. Nikos from Apelia and all farmers are calling for quick compensation. Vassilis, Michael and other farmers from Polyneri and the whole province are asking for Community aid to be granted in October, the 'check', as the farmers say. I believe that if the relevant Ministry so requests, the European Commission will not object. They seek to ensure the related aid to cotton, even though they do not comply with the production plan. It's been damaged in the past, and I think it can be done. They ask for a fast track compensation from ELGA, which on the basis of the average of the previous three years can remove the production that will be delivered this year by those who can collect cotton and corn and directly compensate for the rest of the difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Comrade, please, please, you've been over seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u39	Nikos from Eudri and livestock farmers, such as young Thanasis from Farsala, who fought to save his animals from drowning, are asking for compensation and for the animals taken away from the waters. The demand to photograph the dead animals, when they have them, that is, they are bitten, is luxury under the present conditions. As also unreasonable is to ask them for pictures of animal feed, for which they have documentary evidence, in order to compensate them, when the flood has left nothing standing, while many livestock farmers, who bind the balls themselves with the straw, have practically no evidence to compensate for them even though they have been damaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr Colleague, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u41	Nikos from Anohori, but also many others, ask for an advance payment of at least 100 euros per acre, so that they can stand by.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Colleague, please, if everyone talks for eight minutes, we will not finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, what about the cereals and other productions that were in warehouses and were destroyed? Mr President, the measures announced by the Prime Minister and we are voting today for the relief of the affected are undoubtedly brave. But what we need to see next is the necessary infrastructure projects in Thessaly, so that we never again need to vote for relief measures for the floods of Kampos. Before I come down from Stepma, Minister, I would ask you to look positively at the request of the Larissa Chamber, which calls on the positive provisions on the discounting of advertising expenses of businesses to include all categories of advertising. I am tabling the Chamber's relevant document in the Minutes and I ask you to see it positively. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance, but the voice of the people of Kabul has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u44	Now listen, because we have just entered the list of speakers, time has been set at five minutes to each. Well, all the speakers are about forty-six. The time of all five minutes is about three hundred minutes. So, six hours. They have not spoken of the ministers who have tabled amendments and, above all, the parliamentary representatives. At 6 p.m. the time will definitely be interrupted for parliamentary scrutiny. You understand, as we go, we won't even finish at 23:00. It is not possible to go after parliamentary scrutiny because the working hours are not observed. This is not about you, Mr Harakopoulos, I am generally speaking, because we must respect the time. It is not the fault of the Members who will only speak for three and four minutes. If one of us speaks eight minutes, it's not possible. You spoke eight minutes and nineteen seconds. I'm talking in general. I would ask you very much to keep the time. Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in conjunction with the emergency measures to deal with the coronary, which we are debating today, let me highlight a dimension which concerns the very operation of parliamentary activity. Let me make it clear and make it quite clear: it is understandable that the protection measures that this Parliament must take should be taken. Of course, and it is imperative that these measures be updated, adapted in the course of the pandemic control. Of course the House must send a message to the whole of society. But that is another practice that sends another message to the world and is likely to touch the core of Parliament's democratic function. And as clear as I was with regard to the measures, I am very clear, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, that the Member cannot vote at home. This is my personal position. The decision to vote from a distance, even in cases of waiver of immunity, is degrading Parliament's function. But that's not all. Why did the speeches take place five minutes in today's procedure? Mind if they were, what if the process continued tomorrow? How many meetings and how many bills has the government brought with limited time, a limited number of speakers, who of course deprives the floor of colleagues who want to speak? I believe that none of those who think of vote from a distance has anything in the back of their minds. However, to close the first point I wanted to make, I find it difficult to argue that this issue is not related to the recent proposal for the lifting of immunity, which did not go through, the Minister who apologized or Mr Mitsotakis talking about summer rabies. I believe that the Member has his duties and his role is in Parliament. With regard to the bill, there are two sides, because in any case, time runs relentless. New list Petsa: Despite initial humiliation, despite the fact that no one is gonna feel the need to respond to anything. But is this only an element of arrogance, of arrogant intake, if you like, that distinguishes the government? The chief minister responsible for civil protection has fortunately been pictured, which saves me from a thousand words, about how he treats the priest's rasso or hand. The same picture was captured by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, who escaped me from a thousand other words. From many thousands of words to all of us the Mycenaean image, where what did the Minister say and stay in her place? "What happened? A little black in the dirt.’ In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the arrogance, arrogance, arrogance and cynicism of the behaviour of the ministers of the New Democracy Government are actually hiding the true ideological and practical concept of the New Democracy of executive power. Mr Mitsotakis himself said the magic phrase "the virus is not classic". Unfortunately for you, Mr Mitsotakis, the virus, in the broader sense, and disease and health are a class case, and the deep economic crisis is deeply classic. Not everyone lives in the pandemic crisis the same way. Not everyone has the luxury of going by taxi or private means to their work, instead of stacking in public transport, where you left them with health bombs moving between us. Not all of them have the testimonies to wait for them, now that they're locking up the business or shutting down their jobs or staying out of work. Not all of them are media owners to get the gifts that your spokesperson, every little bit, sends them. Not everyone has the luxury of private security so they can't be found in the ranch of the state hospital, which is in danger of staying even without the beds of the ITH. The crisis, therefore, and the virus have a profoundly classprint, as do the ultimate state that you establish. And fortunately, it has a classic pretext and the answer, with people of culture, youth, people, workers, productive forces, to defend the values and dignity of the country. I want your tolerance to close with a subject. I have also heard Mr Harakopoulos, who referred to the end of 'Janu' from his area, watching the news, I have seen the media, I have seen the moves of the government, I hear things from today's debate. I have nothing to add to the proposal made by the SYRIZA rapporteur, with which I fully agree. But you will allow me to close, Mr President, to mention a disaster of Nikos Kazantzakis. In a village of Crete, in the Opsiyades, it is the areas where the creek of the grapes is touched to become a raisin, the labors of the year that passed and the riches of the year that comes are touched. A sudden sink destroys it. The images he describes, beyond the unparalleled ability and the speech of Kazantzakis, could be images not of a village of Crete at the time, the image of the raisin he describes, but the image of a village of Kefalonia, Karditsa, etc.. And the child, Kazantzakis, goes to his father. "I saw him stand on the threshold, still and bit his mustaches. Behind him, stand up, the mother cried. Father, I yelled, our raisin goes! We don't go, he answered. Oh, no, no, I never forgot this moment. I think it stood in the difficult times of my life a great lesson. I was remembering my father quietly, unharmed, standing on the threshold. Don't sprout, or beg, or cry. He looked to the ruin and saved himself among all the neighbors, the dignity of man." I thank Kazantzakis for the help he has given me in difficult times of my life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u46	As you can see, time is broken. I will leave the first circle of speakers from all the parties with one tolerance, because they are the first Members to speak, but from that point on, they will be strictly observed in five minutes. Mr Igoumenides, with regard to what you said, that the letter vote affects the core of democracy, I do not think you are right. In addition, I must tell you that the Conference of Presidents decided to vote. The President of Parliament addressed the Scientific Council of Parliament, which unanimously gave its opinion that this arrangement is constitutional under the present circumstances, because what is important is the protection of health and of Members of Parliament and officials. So let me say that what you said was a little too much, that the core of democracy is being affected. In amending the Rules of Procedure, which will take place tomorrow, the President of the Parliament will refer to this subject in detail and will be amended. We're continuing with Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u48	What can we say? Is that why we're talking about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u49	No, I'm asking the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u50	Mr Loverdos as Parliamentary spokesman has asked for the floor for a minute. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u51	Not for a minute. Mr President, while you're wearing a mask, you took it off to talk. There's a confusion. In the Intergroup Committee on Thrace Development, a discussion was held, a member of the New Democracy told us that, above all, when we talk about it, we should wear it outside the Step. Take a decision, asking doctors, because there's a matter. Once we do one, once we do the other. For example, Mrs Giannakou said, as a doctor, that when you speak from the Chair you are not transmitting. Others say the opposite. Take a decision, all of us stick to it in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Mulkiotis from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we observe and experience dozens of images every year and have personal experiences from damaged regions, with known tragic results in all parts of the country, there is a matter. If we continue to address the issue of natural disasters, fires, floods in the same way that we have faced up to now, the consequences for us, our children and the children of our children will undoubtedly be continuous and disastrous in all respects, economic, social, environmental and of course human losses. And that's a drama. I am sure that there will be no disagreement with this. Our country, for many well-known reasons, such as unscheduled urbanisation, arbitrary construction, deforestation of forests, fires, blocs of raids, violations, a lack of anti-military works, which is a permanent and lasting phenomenon, does not currently have a satisfactory armour of anti-military protection. Following all these distortions, many regions in the country are often affected by catastrophic floods with incalculable damage, with environmental degradation and also human victims, perhaps even with relatively small intensity and long-term rainfall. This, unfortunately, is the reality and unfortunately today's legislative initiative is not the logic of a comprehensive plan to tackle natural disasters. It's because it happened. If that were not the case, we would not have had this legislative initiative today. In addition, the Government brings in provisions relating to the media, which, if anything, are at least provocative. Is this an example of good legislation, or is it another example of good lawmaking a government of Mitsotakis with a white-handed authority to finance the media without rules, without criteria, without terms and conditions, without transparency? What's that, anyway? Is it not challenging, ladies and gentlemen, but also completely undemocratic, to prove that at the same time as the New Democracy Government does not support the ESS, the educational system, the small and medium-sized ones, the farmers, to take money from the state budget, that is, from the lack of citizens, and to make it available for its propaganda, trying to manipulate the media? At the same time, that is to say, that we need as many ICUs as possible and do not have health material, doctors, nurses, infrastructures, school rooms, which you see, at the same time as a thousand two things, the government is spreading 2 million euros for advertising. We all know that those who manage public money must be very careful and not be provoking their decisions, because the arrogance given to them by so-called demographic forecasts is a bad guide and will soon be found in the face of painful surprises, if they of course continue to be provoked in such a provocative way. If the Government, ladies and gentlemen, wants to say something different, if the Government, Minister, wants to say something different, then adopt the amendment tabled by the Change Movement. Today's bill essentially covers only the part of direct, horizontal support, while it is unable to present or even launch a long-term measure. In particular, with regard to Article 5 and the emergency and urgent measures to protect jobs, it is true that you have originalised, Minister, as, for the first time, workers are suspended after natural disaster by actually subsidising subsidised unemployment. We have made specific remarks and suggestions to you at the committee meeting and we have not received an answer so far. We asked why you are using the tool of suspending a contract of employment and why the employee's compensation should be EUR 534 instead of having a nominal salary compensation? We haven't got a reply so far. We have also proposed that there should be a provision that cancels any redundancies made since the day of the disaster, the damage caused, and even the publication of the law. What are you going to do with this, Minister? Will you take up our proposal? Will you legislate on the protection of workers or simply words? Because the truth is, it probably wasn't the calculation for the workers. You manage matters only on purely communication terms. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy, the labour market and the citizens need measures to subsidise labour and production and not measures to suspend labour and subsidised unemployment. Unfortunately, the government has not understood this until now. That is why there must be a need for progressive, permanent measures to support both enterprises and workers. We have proposed it too many times, but unfortunately you are not listening to it. We say, even now, pilots, Minister, that there should be a work programme to support businesses in these regions that have been affected, according to which, for every EUR 1 000 wage costs, the company should be subsidised for EUR 1,500. Do it, let's see how this experiment goes, can the results be better. Do not keep subsidising unemployment, i.e. suspending and doing nothing else. It is a mistake to grant this subsidy. We need a job subsidy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, let me say two things, and I will be closed. I will refer to the expiry of Law 4495/2017 on 30 September 2020. They're all resurrected. And the citizens who do not have time to legitimise their real estate and engineers. There's the health crisis. Services due to their undersubmission shall not be operational. The 2011 aerial photographs are still not posted and they do not know whether there are legalizations or not and whether they exist arbitrary or not. So how does the deadline end when the state itself has not established the conditions for making proper procedures for the procedure for the legalisation of arbitrary parties? Secondly, there is provision for citizens who have suffered natural disasters to be compensated for the principal residence. Minister, look, there is an exclusion of some citizens who, although they are affected by natural phenomena, have not suffered damage to the main residence, but to the auxiliary areas of the main residence which are necessary for the operation of the main residence. Those who have suffered such damage are not compensated. We in the Change Movement have tabled an amendment to these people - and I refer to the first damage, in the first affected areas in Evia, which has major issues, but also in Thessaly, in Fthiotida - to compensate for the auxiliary residences and facilities necessary for the operation of the residence. I conclude, Mr President, by seeing the Secretary of State for Health: Secretary of State at the Hospital of Thebes, the pathological clinic is closed. Yesterday, Monday, here, you said there are problems, but it will continue to work. The pathological clinic's closed. It sounds like a moderation to be transferred from the Aliarto Health Center to doctors of primary health care at the hospital, i.e. general doctors, not pathologists, to a secondary health establishment. That's scientifically called - I'm not a doctor - that's not acceptable. What about the refugee accommodation structure in Thebes, already has more than seven cases? And we have other issues that we are dealing with. Look, take care to ensure that the pathological clinic works immediately. There is a big issue and a great problem for Thebes Hospital. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that you may be judged as government, but we are all judged. That is why, today, we have these specific proposals and have taken this particular responsibility as Opposition. And we will continue the same institutional role to serve him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes to present Amendment No 481/25-9-2020, on issues of extension of the regulation on emergency needs due to the Coronovirus, extension of the mandate of the IFET Board of Directors and the granting of donations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. As far as Amendment 481/75 by the Ministry of Health is concerned, it has three articles. In fact, it comes with the first article to extend existing regulations to address emergencies due to a coronary. In particular, it concerns the possibility of the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology and other contracting authorities of the Ministry of Health to conclude contracts for the purchase of health material and medicines to meet needs. The possibility of recourse to the forced disposal procedure for private therapies and clinics, intensive treatment units beds, hotels, private spaces, etc. is also extended. in order to deal with the exceptional situation of the coronary. Article 2 extends the term of office of the Board of Directors of the IFET S.A. until 31 December 2020 in order to avoid disrupting the open competitive procedures under way for the supply of health and other equipment, once again to cover emergencies. Article 3 of the amendment allows the Minister of Health to accept donations, in particular special hospital equipment, of all kinds, of personal protective equipment. We are expanding the possibility of donations, particularly with regard to work on the construction of intensive treatment units, so that again, in this case, we can deal with the exceptional situation of the coronary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, one might wonder what the 'January' bill has to do with an article, such as Article 13, which institutionalises the electronic vote in the elections to the educational boards. And yet, this action by the government is not only accidental. Because government policy and tactics are now evident. In the 'now now that we have found a priest to bury five to six', the New Democracy Government methodically exploits the problems arising from the pandemic in order to speed up and deepen anti-Flemish, anti-Flemish policy at all levels and in all sectors. As is also known, anti-grassroots policy is always clawed - meat with state repression, with the hitting of workers' organization and collective action, by undermining the operation of unions itself. As anti-grassroots policy has a constant continuity with all the bourgeois governments, the current unacceptable provision for electronic voting is only the continuation of the anti-gaut regulation of the SYRIZA - so that we do not forget - to block the general assemblies of unions by means of the increased quorum provided for, but also the neo-Russian law on the limitation of demonstrations and intervention in the internal functioning of the clubs through the infamous Electronic Register. Target firmly all of you have the isolation of workers, the undermining and cancellation of any living function, discussion and contact. You want each monk to be in front of a computer, closed to the four walls of his home, isolated from his colleagues, cut off from the collective debate, the live dispute, all that is the elements of the movement's health. What you are pursuing is nothing but manipulation, integration, and even the break-up of the trade union movement. But you're vain. Never, never, ever, ever, you're not gonna make it. So withdraw now the infamous e-vote article. The government will finally do well, instead of working on such unconstitutional plans, to give serious attention to the problems of education. To be seriously leaned at last over school's explosive problems. To listen to the struggles of students, parents and teachers. Because this year's school year began in the unprecedented circumstances of a pandemic and a coronary that doesn't joke. And although it has been six months since the preventive closure of schools last March, although the exemplary adherence of the directives by the people has allowed your Government valuable time to arrange for the protection of the health of the people, it has finally proved that your government's policy has - and has - other priorities and manages pandemic on the basis of a basic criterion, not the protection of the health of the people, but the profitability of business groups. That's your first target. As for education, while avoiding co-existence, it is the most effective measure to brake the spread of the virus and even though the government had all the time to record, prepare, make use of a large number of public buildings suitable to house the fifteen - a maximum of fifteen - pupils now in operation, even backed by what the government itself did last June, and with very few cases, allowing thousands of disciples to operate today, as if nothing were happening. However, this government has come to legislate in the summer even the increase of disciples per department. In addition, instead of perpetuating thousands of trainers for years and recruiting all the necessary educational staff on 1 September, that is, on 1 September, he scorns the recruitment of half of last year's assistants. Right now, it's twenty thousand vacancies in the schools. Say 15 thousand, since you hired five more days ago. In addition, you have also legislated a new flexible working relationship, increasing the variety of the bouquet of flexible labour relations, the so-called 'three months of training contract'. Instead of the government actively caring for the cleanliness of the schools, in the first place by perpetuating the nine and a half thousand cleaners, which, of course, are not enough today to clean up the thirteen thousand school units throughout the country, it is being cut because in the work hostage of these cleaners it has given another form, of course by intensifying their difficult work, without, of course, omissioning the ball of the cleanliness of the schools in the municipalities. Instead of your Government taking care of free mass recurring tests in education, instead of the state itself taking care of the tests of suspicious cases that are constantly going through schools more and more to students and teachers, what are you doing? Instead of taking care of the necessary personal protective equipment, what did you do? You gave them a mini cucumber and of course we lived the infamous crazer of the mask. But you know what? That no matter how great the mask you shared, it is not enough to hide your enormous responsibilities for the dangerous health situation in which your policy led the schools to operate. And as much as you and your slanders slander the mobilizations of students who strengthen all over the country, you know that the real instigators of these games are the same and the results of your own policy, the timeless anti-educational, a policy that allows today, in 2020, the disgrace of the Special School of Secondary Education in Cordelio that operates in a building without a courtyard for children with disabilities! They are the results of a policy within the pandemic that children take lessons in underground rooms in many districts of Thessaloniki and across the country, in twenty or twenty-nine departments. A policy that in the pandemic instead of the few sections of high school are becoming more and more, to multiply, that is, you are abolishing, reducing them, to make the departments multiplier. A policy of preschool education, when it is not as - such as in the rooms of music, Visuals, in gyms along with the mice, such as in Depo of Thessaloniki or in the kibos, where there is no room in the schools, then there are even today kindergartens, such as the 82nd Preschool in Thessaloniki, which has not yet opened, did not start school year for these children, because there are no rooms. This policy is growing, Minister, and it meets the people's response. And be sure that the JRC will make sure that this reaction is both organized and conscious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u58	The next speaker is Mrs Christidou Rallia from SYRIZA. From now on the five-minute period will be observed, because otherwise we will not end today. There was a violation by the first speakers, we said that there would be a circle from all parties and that there would be a tolerance for the first speakers, but I would ask you, from now on, to observe it. As far as I can see most speakers are New Democracy and SYRIZA, except in the two cases of the Communist Party of Greece and two of KINAL. So please keep the five-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u59	I will try, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to discuss a bill that is theoretically intended to help our fellow citizens affected by the 'Januan', in fact our fellow citizens who have been affected by both the 'Januan' and to assist them with the multiple test they are going through. Instead, what does that bill do? It actually makes a slogan that we hear very often from your sidelines and unfortunately we listen to it as a bad, bad taste, very bad joke. "It makes the judgment an opportunity" for friends and "one more", for those whose resignation has an interest in favoring once again. At the same time, our fellow citizens who have lost in the minds of "Janu" everything already "burned" the financial reserves due to pandemic, due to quarantine, because of an economic crisis, which has begun to mercifully New Democracy earlier, now actually get a bill with their name in the title, but little beyond that. And I'm explaining. The bill hypocritically says that it was designed to help those affected by "Jan". Who are these citizens? Beneficiaries should be the natural or legal persons affected by the regions from Kefalonia to Karditsa, who have accepted as known the worst blows and mourning dead at the moment. And how exactly does this bill come to help? With a single payment of EUR 5,000 per housing and EUR 8 000 per company and damages. However, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as much as they have slowed the media to cover the issue of 'Janu' and his losses, the images we have all seen and all have shown that the damage to homes and shops was total and not the ones that are corrected by sums of this category. A similar measure was taken by the SYRIZA Government for the 2007 floods with Law 4501/2017, and the treaty now is far worse. The destruction of shops in the market of Karditsa and the agricultural production of the county, which are also the poorest counties in Greece, comes as an epilogue in months of economic crisis, quarantine and recurring, rather than under normal conditions. People, therefore, no matter how good they have managed, it is reasonable not to be able to restart their lives and jobs on their own. The scale of the disaster is therefore such that it concerns the whole of economic life in many regions. If business is not supported as a whole, one after another, influenced by general economic turbulence, they will all be closed. Workers in the regions affected are converted into unemployed persons with a substantially 50% salary allowance. With this money, what do you think people will do first? Are their homes going to be fixed? Will they meet the irreversible obligations? Will they support local society as a customer? What prospects are there for them to return to work at some point, if the firms that are working on them are not really supported? The suspension until the end of the month of the execution of any act of forced execution on mobile and immovable property is not enough to protect the financially vulnerable, since the vulnerable remain next week, which enters October. This proves that there is no, but no provision for general protection of first homes against auctions, which is unacceptable, especially in an unprecedented situation such as the one we are now living in. The same logic is the extension of the first dose of ENVIA. Why would this whole initiative make sense? It should be very simple to extend all doses of HISA, at least. Why only for a month? What's the point of that? For those affected with very low incomes there could be some provision for temporary tax exemption, to be more relieved. The government, through its mouth, Mr Petsas, has unfortunately said too many times that it does not want to spend money on strengthening the real economy, as it is led by the spirit of wisdom. Well, this bill - which gives aspirin to the 'Januan' disease, but has reserved real support for elsewhere - shows to us as well as to the citizens that this is not the case. The government once again chooses not to support the many world, not by wisdom, but to surpass the lion's share in order to support the 'local', friends and those who are smiling and supporting it. With Articles 8 and 11, tax exemptions are made once again in very large companies and channels and a new list is being prepared, with direct media funding of the government's preference, with the well-known logic of direct awards and the well-known justification for being informed and informed about the coronary. We do not have money in common to deal effectively with the coronary, hospitals, intensive care units, doctors, teachers, masks, tests and so much more, but we have a lot of money to inform people about the coronary, supposedly. And what is the point, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if we have a purpose and a way to do nothing about the problem? The sound briefing of who benefits, if not your Mindian friends, who, on the excuse of COVID, take warm state money to renounce you and make the black white when needed? I close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, saying that the social majority, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is squeezing behind the difficulties, the abandonment and the mockery it receives from your new regularity. We see it among the civilization workers you offended them days ago that they're in black. And the Minister of Culture does the same, and your Undersecretaries say they choose to work black. To professionals who are out of work for a year now officially and you found out to tell them this, to blame them, that is, on top of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u60	Mrs Christidou, thank you very much. Please. It's not right to talk anymore or close the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u61	So while you are dealing with the so-called updating of COVID and leaving to their fate the victims of 'Janu' in society a justified wave of indignation, which, however, you will see very soon that no well-deserved list of Peca will be able to control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u62	Excuse me. Should your colleagues speak for three and four minutes at the end? I want some understanding. That is what the Rules of Procedure say about the urgency procedure. That's the process. Mr Apostle, you have the floor to show the example.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, it is unfair because I have experienced such situations a month and a half ago and I will be useful at least in informing what has happened to this day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u64	Yes, but you always have a reason. So I think you'll keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by making a statement because of what I said to you that I have experienced in Evia for a month and a half. Indeed, Minister, a lot of water fell, and then nine days ago in the regions affected. However, all disasters have had one main cause, the absence of prevention and management projects and the absence of such projects will henceforth be the great fear of repeating similar extreme phenomena. The picture of half the Muzakh Health Center has taken the river is typical. The center was built taking from the river a vital place, which was given opportunity, sought it through the flood. The disaster that we are discussing today has left no activity intact, from houses, businesses, crops, livestock to roads, to all infrastructures. That is why there are indeed time-consuming responsibilities. However, the citizens of Carditsa and the other regions affected must be answered to their question: which of their representatives from central government to regional and local government have left them defenseless? That is their question right now and must be answered. However, because it is important to restore damage and relieve the affected, I have to say that most of the measures already announced are a repetition of the disasters already known. Nothing special. Not only are they not enough, but they also put the affected people in a complex process that makes it difficult to absorb them. That is why I should like to refer to the fact that the same thing is not repeated in the cases that we are discussing today. I begin with the living allowance, the EUR 600, which is supposed to be the direct intervention of the affected to live, survive. For over a month and a half they have asked the two municipalities, Chalkida and the Fishers, two and a half thousand - the wounded are more - and five hundred ninety have been paid. In other words, about one out of five has made use of this aid. No payment has been made for the replacement of the building. Would you like me to give you an example? How can a citizen affected and his fridge take the river when there are still houses in the mud? There has been no payment of EUR 5,000 for house repairs, because it is still open if the ministerial assurances given by your colleagues in Chalkida for compensation in underground and secondary dwellings will be realised. All these delays also make it necessary to extend all the deadlines which expire these days. The whole world will actually be left without making use of these measures. There, however, where things have literally erected both disasters, it is the government's inability to respond in particular, not only to the level of compensation for rural areas but also to the time when these compensations will be paid. The first figures, ladies and gentlemen, show that 15% of Greek production in cotton was lost just before its collection, at least two hundred and fifty thousand acres. Analogous, of course, is the situation in the field of maize cultivation, let alone when there is a huge problem right now with feed that has already been destroyed. As long as the procedures for the assessment of losses are shortened, there will be a problem of survival for these farmers, since they have been in a very difficult financial situation for some time now and will have no chance of waiting for payment before the end of October for the advance payment of the single payment. It is therefore necessary to find a way and there is the possibility of using IACS declarations or even aerial photographs to pay them an advance of a percentage. You, Minister, are from a rural area, and you realise that at least 50% of the compensation must be paid and the rest must be given when the damage personalities are completed, since it takes time to absorb the water that is present today. Minister, cotton and Thessaly go together. They are the heart of the rural world and the rural area. You have forgotten this in your speech today. Nor has animal husbandry been left unaltered. Only more than twenty - five thousand beehives were lost in Karditsa, 12 thousand sheep and goats and an unspecified number of more cattle. There must be timely valuation and compensation both for the animal population and for the facilities and equipment. Especially in livestock farming, what has happened to it is unacceptable. He is still waiting for the commitment of the Minister for Rural Development that took place before Easter that there will be support for the pandemic, especially for farmers, and they are still waiting. It's a humiliation. It is unthinkable that specific money cannot be disbursed, at least in their statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u68	Let's just be a little consistent, so we can get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u69	This whole process, which, today and last days, you have essentially brought about the rural area - I am referring in particular to it - is indeed a pity. As I said at the outset, the provisions of the bill relate to half of Greece. It was an opportunity for you to give a signal of essential support to the affected. You didn't. You only got enough of communication management. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you will know that you will pay for this to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u70	Ms. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, a delegation of SYRIZA Members went to Kefalonia and Ithaca to see the disasters closely and to stand up to the people on our islands. I must tell you, Minister, that destruction is great, the despair of the world is great. The disaster has to do with large public infrastructure. In other words, the networks have a huge problem at the moment. In fact, even whole pieces of the islands, especially in Kefalonia, are without electricity 12 days after 'Janus'. And, of course, this means that there is no water, but that there are tragic health conditions because the desalination plants operate with electricity. There is a huge disaster in agriculture - it is the period of olive production now affected - in livestock farming, in apiculture, but also in fishing and in professional vessels. The Port itself has counted over sixty ships that were destroyed. What the world is mainly experiencing is the desperation of what will happen from now on, because this hit of "Jan" was the final blow after a very difficult summer due to the pandemic crisis, because the government did not support the real economy and the tourist regions and now the problems have multiplyed. I will tell you the findings we have made since this visit, speaking with the mayors, speaking with the productive players and the residents. Minister, there was, first of all, a problem of prevention, a problem of prevention, as did previous colleagues, as far as the flooding works were concerned, because these natural disasters were also in the past, but this time it was the phenomenon that was much larger and in disasters. However, we heard Mr Chardalia say on Friday here in the House that for Evia he was not properly informed by his services. This, of course, is not the case, because all Greece was aware of and much more that this great theory was to be done. And, of course, the consequences were predictable. When the cables at PPC are basically not underground, they are close to trees and they are the first disaster to be done, they should have been supplied by generators to deal with the problem in time. We were told by the mayors that they would at least like to have satellite phones - and I am telling you that for the future - because when the electricity networks and all communications fell, they could not even be coordinated with the necessary bodies and the various workshops that had to repair the damage. So this is the first conclusion. The second conclusion is that there was a very long delay in the presence of both the Government and, in particular, the Region. The region appeared after five days and after he went the step of SYRIZA, as, unfortunately, it happened in Carditsa, when President Alexis Tsipras and the step of SYRIZA went, and then we saw the Prime Minister and the government show up. The third conclusion is that the measures are insufficient. It is inadequate in terms of compensation and, indeed, because the previous Members have also referred to it, it is also a matter of great delay. The issue of Evia is an indication, said by Mr Apostolos. And I think you should think, Minister, because we must also learn to cope with natural disasters, but we must also be able to respond immediately to the needs of those affected every time, this proposal, and to have an advance payment of compensation in order to deal with all these issues. And, of course, there is also a very big issue - our rapporteur, Mrs Papanatsiou, said - regarding the need for targeted measures for the local economy, for the companies that have been destroyed, for the producers who have been destroyed, and you must also think - and very seriously, and it has been raised by all the Members of Parliament, by all the parties - the issue of which housing you are compensation. Mrs Papanatsiou spoke about the need for the semifinals. I have heard Mr Harakopoulos - and I fully agree that you should think that the second place must be compensated, Minister. You know, in these parts, the second home is not just a countryside, it's a countryside, it's homes where pensioners go and spend half a year and there's a real danger after this disaster - and especially in Ace it's a tragic situation - to have a desertation of our villages and islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with one question, Minister: I have not heard - and I am closing, Mr President - no debate on the European Union Solidarity Fund, and I would like to ask you why it really has come to my attention. This fund is precisely for major natural disasters, especially from climate change. I would like to know why it is still not planned for our country to go there, while it is a natural disaster, there are economic problems and there are too many fronts. Our country must also make full use of the European Union Solidarity Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, and especially for keeping time. Please beg Mrs Zetta Makri from New Democracy to come to Stepma. The Minister of Finance will then speak and then the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Tsakalotos will speak. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had the hope that this debate would develop into a civilised, fertile confrontation with the submission of better proposals and with full respect for the dead who have been mourned by their families, but also with full empathy for the loss of property. I am in the Magnesia Prefecture and I have seen with my eyes the storm caused by the hurricane, I have seen infrastructure destroyed, I have seen houses flooded, I have seen crops destroyed, I have seen people desperate, and I have realised how easily and suddenly all of a sudden, but above all how unreasonable everything can be overturned in our lives. The desperation of my compatriots, the buoyant pain, the agonizing effort to save what they could and the dignified attitude of them do not allow any of us to celebrate the government's correct and speedy legislative initiative, nor to condemn it and neutralize it. That is because the government had to act immediately, it had to take the initiative to regulate and relieve the affected. The government has done its duty and will be judged, judged by the speed of damage recovery for all the affected, judged by the coordination and control workshops, judged by the better restoration of the damage and by the amount of resources that will be made available, and it seems that many will be, and that is the result of the first assessments. In my position, I do not praise the government for that self-evident, I simply point it out. I could, of course, point out that self-evidentness was not the rule in just as unpleasant and difficult cases in the past. I will not insist more on this, but I must stress that its duty must also be exercised by the Opposition and its duty is to applaud and agree, vote on the measures and contribute to their improvement. Those who wait for the help of the state will welcome consensus and synergy. They do not understand why Hurricane Janus should follow a hurricane of announcements, convergences and accusations. We could easily remind and criticise the worst behaviors, false and insulting for Greek citizens, by hiding deaths, by manipulating information, with provoking indifference. Furthermore, we could remind many European funding losses, as well as poor allocation and approval options for projects that had no added value for citizens and did not strengthen infrastructure, but it is not time to do so. If we really respect the dead, if we count on the affected, let us sharpen our opposition knives on another occasion and on another occasion. Beyond the measures taken by the Government in the draft law on the regulation of issues that have not already been resolved by other legislative measures, let us recall the government initiatives announced and accelerated after, and the on-the-spot visit of the Prime Minister to Karditsa and, in particular, the funding that has already been adopted, helping the municipalities to meet their immediate needs and to support their affected citizens, the financing of exceptional infrastructure projects, which are necessary to support farmers and farmers, the extension of social welfare benefits, which are some of the first government measures to be implemented, and others to follow. As I said at the beginning of my position, I do not praise the government, although it has acted quickly and effectively. I will, however, commend the police, the fire brigade, the people of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection who by self-sacrificing and self-determination have, as far as possible, reduced human losses and disasters, helped people and have mourned themselves, such as the Voliotis firefighter Despotopoulos. In this rare phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen, the state and citizens have reacted well and indebted all of us to support the government, the district and the municipalities and to satisfy as fully as possible the needs of our fellow citizens, to ease their pain and anxiety. So let us vote in favour of this bill, and let us ask the government - at least that I will do - to regulate other loose ends, to do what is necessary to mitigate the pain of loss, not of life, because that is where we are powerless, the pain of loss of property acquired with labor and sweat, which has been inherited by parents and grandparents, who have raised children and grandchildren. I call it out of respect and honor to all those who lost people and property, but they did not lose their courage and dignity. Let's not disappoint them with our attitude here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u74	Thank you too, Mrs Makrere, and especially for keeping time. The Minister of Finance Mr Christos Stagioras has the floor, and then the President of the Communist Party of Greece will speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the thread from where the last two speakers left it from the parties in the New Democracy and Syriza, i.e. I will speak on a matter, because we have heard a lot that is not an issue but a bill. The situation is difficult, the situation in the municipalities affected, in about twenty municipalities and three regions, is really difficult and still difficult. The citizens are struggling and, in fact, on a number of occasions, the citizens are indignant. They are indignant about time-consuming responsibilities and require seriousness, responsibility, speed, and they evaluate us all. So far they seem to trust the government. This does not mean that we are triumphing, but that we are not destroying. And we will obviously be judged, evaluated and accounted for. We have heard today that the bill is being incorporated and irrelevant with the flooding provisions, while you know that several of them are urgent. At the same time, however, we see that the flooding amendments from Opposition have been tabled unnecessarily. Isn't that a little contradictory? We heard of late visits to the lands, if one political leader went on Monday and the other on Tuesday. The point is, because I experienced it, because I have geographical areas in the Fhotida Regional Unit, that since Friday night the Municipality and the Region and the Government were there, while on Saturday morning the entire government step was in the affected areas. We operated in time, methodically and responsibly. I have heard a colleague today saying that we are hiding from the affected and that we are afraid of them. I would like to inform you that last night I was at an open event organised by opposition parties in Lianocladi and I did not see any fear, we barely developed our argument fully, we discussed and tabled thoughts and reflections, as we heard, why we should listen. I would therefore like to inform you today of all the measures, as I did last Thursday, because I think there are gaps in the arguments I hear. It is certainly not understood that many measures are complementary to each other. They are considered to be mutually exclusive, while everything is complementary to each other, so that they can make a package of measures which can deal with many of the problems of our compatriots. A lot of measures obviously aren't in the draft law. I hear some colleagues say that these measures are not enough in the draft law. But you'll see from the development that I'm going to do that many measures have already been implemented, but they don't need to be legislated, they need simple ministerial decisions. I begin with the Solidarity Fund which, as you quite rightly said, my colleague, has started the relevant procedures from the Ministry of Development and Investment and will be more fully informed about you later. It is very reasonable to think and yes, that we have done so in time. So let us talk a little - and here I shall put forward two legislative improvements - about what we have done and agree on what further people are calling for here, because we are indeed prepared to hear additional speeches, if this mesh is estimated that it does not have conditions of completeness and speed, because I have rightly heard this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u76	First of all, the first issue is the suspension of tax obligations. We said last Thursday - we have been talking about about a week since the disaster - that the relevant ministerial decisions by the State Secretary, Mr Vésiropoulos, have been signed to suspend all outstanding accredited and late tax obligations. I heard SYRIZA's colleague say that we've been doing this for a week. I heard SYRIZA's colleague saying that HNVIA isn't inside. But obviously, it's inside HISPIA. Here, therefore, is the FEI on 24 September 2020, a number of cards 4127, which confirms everything I told you a moment ago. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the 20 municipalities of the country and the three geographical areas, the three regional units, the citizens of these municipal districts do not have to pay tax obligations for the next six months. Incidentally, the first measure is not in the draft law, but I think we agree that it is a reasonable measure that we should take. Secondly, compensation for households' first needs and households. It is indeed what we say about the EUR 600, which is not always 600, but it is more. But let's start from EUR 600. What should the state do first? Evidently, he will make an advance payment to the municipalities so that following requests from citizens, households and businesses, he can help households. A decision was made on 21 September 2020 to grant the municipalities EUR 8 million. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the Ministry of Interior has given the municipalities - not to come back, this is a well-known list of twenty municipalities - with about EUR 8 million for the implementation of the Social Protection Programme, with a view to granting financial aid to those affected by natural disasters. Is that enough? Oh, no. It's the deposit. We believe that it will be shaped at around EUR 20 million and will meet these first needs. What you say about 5,000 and 8 000 are complementary to this measure, they are not mutually exclusive, but we are coming to supplement. And as you will then hear, for business, we complement additional resources and there is an advance, because that is something I have heard. The second measure is therefore the measure of compensation for the first needs of households and households. We moved, I think, quickly, we financed the municipalities and I mentioned the amount, I mentioned the decision. Yesterday, as far as I know, the process progresses smoothly at least in the Regional Unity of Fhotida. Thirdly, I can reasonably hear Members saying that there are infrastructures too and that we can help make the infrastructure. And here we moved on two parallel axes which have not so far been in previous speeches. Because I heard SYRIZA's rapporteur say ‘What are you doing? Just copy everything you've found." First of all, we have supported EUR 29 million with twenty-one municipalities and three regions. I make all decisions in the Minutes of 21 September 2020. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are talking about EUR 22.45 million for the municipalities and EUR 6.5 million for the regions. The grant was made to deal with the damage and disasters caused by theory. I repeat, we are talking about approximately EUR 29 million. You will tell me: 'But you should do that'. The Ministry of Infrastructure comes in and says to these municipalities: "Get me technical bulletins..." - I know that the Municipality of Lamianes will submit it this week - "in order to give you another 1 million help." We believe that following the submission of the technical notes from the municipalities to the central government, additional EUR 22 million will be needed. Slowly you will see how great the bill is and how necessary the resources from the Greek state are to be provided directly to them: municipalities, citizens, households and businesses. So we come and operate further - I repeat - both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure. In one case, we have given the money, but in the other case we are waiting for the technical bulletins to give each municipality 1 million. Appreciate 29 and 22, so we can get a sense of size. Fourthly, compensation to farmers is a very serious problem. I have heard my colleague from Evia and other opposition parties, indeed, you are right. There is a very serious issue here and we need to deal with it. So what do we do? And it's confirmed by what I saw myself last night. ELGA's tiles throughout the country also record damages and losses, but all the damages and losses, whether they are currently covered by ELGA, whether they are likely to be covered through state financial aid, or those that are currently - there is this afternoon a meeting with the Ministry of Rural Development with the Ministry of Finance - there is no possibility of compensation. So this is a matter that concerns us and we need to take further initiatives in relation to what has been done with previous theories. So this isn't a repetition of the past either. Here, therefore, the ELGA has a much more important role to play and, obviously, if you want to get into details, there is a great deal of cotton. And obviously there will be witnesses so that they can see in a field what the problem is, but these have also been taken into account by the regions, the ELGA and the other competent agencies. Fifthly, in addition - I am sorry to repeat many times the word 'additional', but for some we have to become an estate - we come and give one-off aid to Article 1 of the draft law that we are debating, in the form of an allowance to natural persons and businesses affected. There is indeed an exceptional one-off payment in the form of an allowance, amounting to EUR 5,000 for natural persons and EUR 8 000 for each undertaking. Question: How soon will people get the money? We are building, completing the database, in collaboration with the Ministry of Digital Governance, so that through the platform the citizens can declare the damages to be compensated as soon as possible. Question: Is this a tax-free benefit, unexpected and inconsistent? Yes, Article 2 confirms that. So in your question: how quickly will resources go to the real economy, where are we? Digital governance, Ministry, creation of a relevant platform, compensation as soon as possible. Sixth, grant to enterprises affected by natural disasters. They say, ladies and gentlemen, that 8 000 are not enough in the business. I heard SYRIZA's last colleague and he's right. Many times in business may not have enough to do with 8,000. They're gonna need more money. We are asked how quickly you will find the resources to compensate, given that these procedures are time-consuming. What are we doing? We are improving the institutional framework, precisely in order to speed up the process of granting companies a great deal. What did we do, first? We have widened the perimeter of executives who can participate in the relevant audit committees, providing for the possibility of using public sector executives as well as the official scientific advisers of the public. Second, what did we do? It comes VEC today - I will submit the decision in the Minutes, half a minute only to say something about the decision - and we are shaping a flexible scheme for promoting the losses of the firms affected to be assessed and paid for, so that it is fed at regular intervals from the new data we have and the whole process is progressed. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly - I said it Thursday, but I note that my colleagues have not understood it - we anticipate the advance payment as a member of the grant, as it will have emerged from the audit committee, to the businesses affected by natural disasters. The decision was recently signed on 25 September. I have this paper here, which says that in exceptional cases where significant and extensive losses are observed, in both the number of firms affected and the size of the disaster, an advance may be provided in respect of the total amount of the grant. The region - to see the process, and I would like to hear different thoughts, if you have - submit every fortnight to the relevant Directorate of the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the companies affected and for which the assessment and registration of the losses has been completed. So we also cover the part of the deposit. In addition, in order to inform the citizens, all the information and support centres of the Ministry of Finance in all the regions of the country can be informed and informed precisely about the relevant grant procedures and not just that. We also put a telephone line for information and guidance in the Ministry of Finance's General Secretariat of Economic Policy. So I have submitted to you here a series of elements confirming that, in the reasonable reflection of the opposition and also colleagues of the government majority, how quickly the companies that are not enough will be compensated for by the 8,000, yes, the advance we had in any case anticipated and received FEK. But we also have a sense of size. How many businesses have been applied for so far, with Friday's data? It is two thousand nine hundred six: in the Regional Unit of Carditsa - a big problem - two thousand two hundred businesses, in the Regional Unit of Kefalonia Ithaca - you are right, Ms. - four hundred fifty enterprises, in the Regional Unit of Zakynthos a hundred and seventy three businesses, in Larissa fifty, in Fthiotida twenty-three, in Magnesia seven, in Lefkada three and in Trikala zero. To have a sense of what each company submits in demanding compensation from the Greek state. We have also tabled an amendment to which the article is essentially supplemented - to speak for both, Mr President - to set up committees with a decision by the regional authority to assess and record damage to industrial and craft units and to extend until the end of the year various deadlines for the submission of a declaration on the establishment or use of a property and for the submission of a responsible statement by the person concerned to delete debts from cleaning and lighting charges for property not used during the reference period. Seventh, housing assistance to natural and legal persons. This is where the process has begun at an intensive rate. The first recordings are made within the framework of co-operation and with the services of the municipalities. Because here we represent the government. There are regions and municipalities. It is necessary to coordinate and I think that so far we have good results. Eighth, suspension or regulation of credit commitments to the citizens of the affected municipalities. I am tabling the Greek Banking Union communication, which was made after the telephone call that I personally had with the Secretary of the Hellenic Banks Association on 21 September, where the Greek Banking Association says that each credit institution is looking at the situation on a case-by-case basis and that immediate support measures are put in place for the affected. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ninth, repayable advance. The payment 4 which we said would be in November will include these businesses in these regions, without taking into account the reduction in turnover and the use of a cash machine. Tenth, suspension of auctions and seizures, not - as I have heard from a SYRIZA colleague - for one month but for one year. Suspension of auctions and seizures on movable and immovable property of natural or legal persons in the affected areas: Article 3 of the draft law under discussion. Here, therefore, up to 30-9-2021 in these geographical areas declared affected by Civil Protection are suspended auctions, seizures, miscarriages and personal detentions. Eleventh, Article 5 of the draft law: There is protection of jobs by means of a provision concerning the financial support of workers in the affected areas. Twelfths, there are facilities, through extensions, for procedures and deadlines of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time and at the same time as the measures that I mentioned, in addition to the suspensions of the tax obligations, we have extended the deadlines for supporting measures to strengthen the impact of the coronary, such as the third cycle of a repayable advance and the special-purpose compensation. Special colleagues - from all the parties - from the affected and affected regions - will tell you Carditsa - were asked to give us a one-week extension to submit statements to the third returner who expires today, so that many businesses in these municipalities or counties - let us say Carditsa - can submit their documents. To date they have applied for the third hundred returning sixty - seven thousand six hundred thirty businesses. This shows the size of the success of the return advance. Because if this measure did not satisfy business, they would not say so massively to the Greek state to be financed both in the first and second and in the third and I appreciate the fourth phase. The amendment to the Staff Regulations, which extends the deadline for registration for special purpose compensation by one week, was also adopted to serve, in order to satisfy them citizens. Therefore, in conclusion - and I spoke about the first part of the bill, Mr Besyropoulos will be speaking about the tax item and Mr Petsas will also be here to develop his own provision - we are working methodically, responsibly and consistently so that as soon as possible, in the best time possible, we can channel resources to the affected - households and businesses - and to relieve, as far as possible, our compatriots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I would like for a minute to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u78	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement has the floor to ask a precise question in the light of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. We had been informed, Mr President, by the press, of the twelve measures to be announced by the Minister of State, Mr Stagioras, of the twelve categories of measures. In the tenth, you referred to auctions suspended and other relevant procedures. This morning - this morning! - in a morning zone in "AD -1" we heard that in Carditsa they are served by court documents, an extrajudicial procedure for fulfilling obligations. It is ten days after the 'January'. Shouldn't you have taken steps before the House has voted to suspend certain procedures in the light of their suspension? I hear this as tragic, in the water and the floods of another outlaw! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u80	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u81	It is obvious that the Greek state is legislating precisely to cover the concerns you have raised. We had similar concerns, Mr. Colleague, in the case of HISBIA, because you know very well that they went to HISBIA clearing at the weekend. And we have clarified since last week that these citizens will not pay for six months, based on the clearing house that has taken them, because, indeed, there would be this discrepancy between legislating and implementing. That is why we are bringing the draft law in the form of urgency to cover these cases. And, obviously, if any action like what you say has been done, it's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u82	Minister, some auctions have been completed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u83	Please! You'll see when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u84	I've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u85	Please beg the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, to come to Stepma. Mr President, I am sorry for the delay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, from this step forward we want to express our condolences to the families of the victims, as well as our full support for the wounded who struggle to get rid of the muds of what was saved from the disaster. Gentlemen of the government, we will not make a meaningless review of when the Prime Minister went to Carditsa, whether it went on Sunday or Tuesday. This, let's say, criticism, is convenient for the government. We are focusing on what has not been done by the government, what has not also been done by previous governments and regional and municipal authorities in recent years, especially the critical stage of the flood and, obviously, the long delays in the rapid recording and restoration of damage, the fact that for days there are villages cut off from the rest of the prefecture, in Karditsa, and residents who have not had a single dish of food. For days the whole area had no water or drinkable water. In 2020 all this! The government has the full responsibility. We do not underestimate the seriousness of the phenomenon in Karditsa, in Central, West and East, in Kefalonia and elsewhere, in all regions affected, but we cannot accept that an entire state mechanism today is not being strengthened and is therefore not being prepared and trained on the basis of the worst scenario and with the guide to protecting human life and the labors of life. We are monitoring the same work with role rotation. Before it was the SYRIZA government that exclusively invoked climate change to hide its own responsibilities, now the officials of today's government say the same. At the same time, of course, lives, homes, fields, machinery, animals, shops, infrastructure are being lost. What we saw in our visit to Cardica is tragic. The world, in fact, remains soaked in mud. We ask two questions: First, should all this world stand on its feet again, be able to live and work in Carditsa, Moussaki, Farsala, but also before Evia? Secondly, does this whole world have to get support from the state, but, correspondingly, from the disasters suffered and from the income that it had before been destroyed, to be compensated, that is, to 100%? To these self-evident questions, the government, but also other parties, is not responding positively. Anyone can say what they want. But actions count. And from what the government has announced, the actions will be some half-measures and compensations with the drop-off, such as the compensation paid to Evia or before to Matti. The other level of the announcements concerning works of anti-white, anti-corrosion, infrastructure and others, the world hears them both in Karditsa and elsewhere. At some point, however, governments, regions and municipalities must also take their responsibility. We all know these areas are full of channels, rivers, dams. Neither were these cleansed, nor were the impurities, even maintained, nor were any new projects, much more new projects, with a single project being carried out. We say that we now need to start completed projects in this area and elsewhere, taking into account the great flood risk, which is still in the whole of Thessaly and other regions - and Carditsa as the capital of the prefecture in particular - the fact that all the water resources in the region can be arranged, with dams and a number of other technical projects, instead of drowning the cities, extinguish large volumes of water, when required, in exceptional circumstances, and subsequently exploited to the fullest extent for agricultural crops. But you do not have such a plan, nor do you. The most likely is to see anti-military works that are fragmented, because here too, they enter "cutter". The European Union, the major construction groups here do not have such projects in their priorities. In fact, the European Union has occasionally confessed that projects cost more than the cumbersome compensation granted after disasters such as fires, floods, earthquakes. They do not proceed with such projects, because they do not pay back the profits they expect and desire from the groups. This is the truth and, unfortunately, it costs lives. So we have to put another compass as a whole as a people. Because such works of antimilitary, anti-nuclear, earthquakes we need them to protect our lives and our labors. Neither the builders nor the engineers nor the geologists are missing. Many even spend their knowledge and work on other branches if they are not unemployed. We have the potential, we have the knowledge, and we believe that the working people's movement needs these projects to be reclaimed by the governments as a whole. We do not accept that it will be normal after intense weather phenomena of losing fellow humans. Extreme phenomena we'd always have. That's nature. Only we can now predict more time and be more prepared for the worst. These possibilities are our own time and we are striving for an economy where these potentials can be exploited for the welfare of many and not for the profits of the few. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you say compensation of EUR 5 000 for households, EUR 8 000 for professionals. Has anyone set up a home from the start with 5,000 euros? All of you who play entrepreneurship on your fingers, as you say, do you know of any damaged little business as well to rebuild, to be able to start at least EUR 8,000? Have you realised the goods were taken by the torrents, that equipment and equipment were dismantled? And that's not about two or three stores. We're talking about 80% of Carditsa's stores. Really, this cutter at 8,000 euros, how did he get in? Because when they're going to support large-scale investment projects, they leave here with hundreds of millions of decisions. You vote for them. You don't know them? As today you will vote for new costs for the media and the transmission of krone messages. You say suspension of payment of HNVA and other dues for six months, as if people would have to pay 600 euros in addition to every household that has been affected by the main home and 600 euros in the multiple families. After six months, what will happen? Will they have money to pay? Let's get a farmer. He worked all year to collect his harvest and with the money he would get to pay off obligations to suppliers, banks, other debts to be able to live. Now they have been destroyed together with his harvest and machinery and the land to be restored, for which no compensation by the ELGA is provided. We're talking about three hundred thousand acres, of which the two hundred fifty thousand are 100% destruction, according to your own estimates, apart from the catastrophes of farmers, the livestock that was not recorded until Friday. If there's a big nipple in small farmers, farmers, professionals, you know it's bank loans. Since they don't have to pay, why don't you go ahead with deletion of debts to the banks of those who were completely destroyed? Will they pay confidently? Here, and now, the government is saying that it will take measures to compensate the affected, as the affected, 100%, or less, for 100% of the compensation. With little benefits, this world won't breathe. Ladies and gentlemen, we really are at a critical turning point in the battle with the pandemic. We will agree on this with you. But how we got here, how we got to count hundreds of cases every day, you don't want to talk about it, because then your own government's responsibilities, which you've been trying to hide since the beginning of the pandemic, will seem to be on the verge of individual responsibility. From the very first moment on, you have followed the tactics of pronouncing the treatment of pandemic solely on a matter of personal individual responsibility. Only now and while the second wave of cases is under way, the nurses, the intruders are constantly growing, you have taken a step further. You proceeded to an unacceptable, provocative blackmail with the Prime Minister's "self-protection or quarantine" in his complaint, except that self-protection has its limits, gentlemen of the government. The mask may be necessary to protect and protect the people, but it does not prevent the public from seeing the nakedness of the public health system, the crowd in public transport, in schools, the lack of protection measures in the workplaces that show up at a number one danger, according to official evidence, unless your Government wants us to wear the mask and eyes. We heard the Prime Minister say that we are now more ready in front of the second pandemic wave. Do you want to talk about your readiness to deal with such a situation? Because we are the only preparedness we see is your readiness to use pandemic as a great opportunity to benefit the capital and impose measures that have long been in its drawers and drawers. Yes, you have shown great readiness at the workplaces where, instead of measures to protect the health of workers, you have imposed more intensification and unpaid work at the same time as offering new benefits and subsidies to groups. Yes, you have shown great readiness for the public health system where while the situation is in the'red', the private sector continues to rediscover, since your government is pushing your clientele back into the private sector as well as before the pandemic, where due to huge deficiencies, serious incidents were either expected on long-term waiting lists in the public sector at the risk of their lives or being forced to get out of the private sector. Now with a new joint ministerial decision not only you are beating the private sector's money, but you are also paying them. That's what you're doing. You will pay for hospitalizations in simple beds and beds, as, as stated in the new Joint Ministerial Decision, in case of hospitalisation in a private hospital or surgery, the daily hospital of the Single Regulation of the EEAS, multiplied by the rate of wage costs of 2,09, is applied. This will obviously be done through the insurance funds. At the same time, you are giving the possibility - the right - to private treatments to extend and increase up to 40% of private IF beds, without even the slightest checking of suitability. Clinical rulers are supposed to be checked if they meet the required conditions with the end of the crisis after they have hospitalized patients. For the private sector, you have found money, since the financing of all of this provides for exceptional funding of at least EUR 30 million from the state budget, i.e. from the workers' pockets, of the people. At the same time, speaking of the public health system, you try to present the black white, as if we do not hear every day how many IF beds have been left in one or another hospital. The numbers are really scary. We tell you once again: leave the balls, now before it is late, proceed to the creation of an ICU, make mass recruitments to doctors and nurses, now proceed to a plan for ordering all the structures and services of the private health sector - welfare, satisfy fair requests from doctors and, more generally, all the health workers who fight to protect the health and life of the people. Yeah, you're saying you've shown a lot of readiness in schools and universities. In schools twenty-five and upward pupils stacked in cagerooms, cleaners are missing, teachers too. Universities haven't opened yet. It's your responsibility. Take your responsibility and open the universities now. Hundreds of thousands of children have passed this year, you congratulated them, and they are still on board. Many families are already paying rents to keep their children, but the houses they rent are uninhabited, since the schools are closed. Shame on you! You didn't even give the schools a mask. Of course, it turns out the size of the mask wasn't wrong. That size you ordered, because what you wanted were students to have covered not only their mouths, but also their eyes so they wouldn't see your own irresponsibility. You and your various well-paid "pads" were also saved by thousands of students in the center of Athens and in other cities that, wearing all masks, demanded self-evident, decisive reduction in the number of students per class, exceptional funds for mass appointments of teachers and workers in cleanliness, sanitary measures and individual protection measures. When students and students tell you about your responsibilities, they tell you racing with their teachers, their parents, their proposals, their thoughts about what needs to be done in their schools, and even where budget money should be saved - why not - you also consider them to be motivated. You even question the right of opinion, information and knowledge of how much, for example, the warplanes you buy from France and how much military agreements with the United States cost the Greek people, since today we are visiting one of the "grills" of Pentagon, Pompeso, in Thessaloniki and tomorrow in Souda and the workers, the actors of Thessaloniki and Crete are mobilizing. Don't tell us again that he comes to help the Greek people and put the aggressive Turkey in place, because you know what the Greek people know, that is, that these "globes" are stifling competition, interventions, warfare. They are all these and you who will send our children as meat to their cannons and even as soon as they finish school, from eighteen years old, on the basis of a reduction in the age limit you are promoting for compulsory military ranking, i.e. when they finish high school. You are all those who want the students of seventeen and eighteen years to vote in the parliamentary elections, in the European elections, in the local elections, but you do not recognise them the right to have a political opinion, to have an opinion on what they are experiencing, to decide through collective democratic procedures on forms of struggle and to claim self-evidently. On the contrary, you are sending them prosecutors, repression forces, unjust punishment within the school. This is your democracy, these are your vows of faith in freedom and individual rights. Ladies and gentlemen, you have also told us without any sign of shame that you have shown a great deal of readiness for the means of transport, where thousands of workers are travelling every day as sardines. Because you are going to start saying again about the renewal of the fleet - we have heard this from the Prime Minister - we are telling you that all you have done was take the opportunity to go further in their privatisation, since by means of leasing and PPP, about 30% of the total fleet in Athens will now belong to private groups, instead of going to a private public transport agency with their integration into a single state plan to stop today the dangerous day-to-day conspiracy, rather than recruiting permanent staff to increase routes. Your same readiness to benefit both from the business groups within the pandemic and in today's bill, which offers them some more "gifts" as supposedly measures to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. What are you doing? You are, for example, providing tens of millions of euros to the media groups, aiding businesses for advertising expenditure in the name of market stimulation, while redeploying a company directly for the distribution of 'hot' money to the media for messages about the coronary pandemic. How's SYRIZA doing to get you out of the difficult position? It gives it to big businessmen, whom it calls not to accept funding for the transmission of messages, and so some will appear from above and as benefactors, as is already the case. If you really do not want to give the Greek people's money to groups to show you the advertising messages about the pandemic, then why did you reject the proposal, the amendment of the JRC? The JRC has repeatedly stressed that messages related to the protection of public health and life, and especially to address this pandemic, should be transmitted and registered in all the media completely free of charge and not in terms of advertising campaigns. In all other cases, such as for the promotion of ministries, public bodies or the wider public sector that need to be spent on advertising in the media, this should also be done in terms of full transparency, on objective criteria, without unacceptable exclusion, without subsidies for non-existent means, because otherwise this is a criminally collar transaction. Today we are reintroducing this amendment, which clearly provides for the first time that the messages on public health should be transmitted completely free of charge, secondly, that the information of any state advertising should be disclosed directly and, thirdly, that there should be a retrospective check for a decade to see the Greek people who took public advertising money. This amendment is a concrete and just amendment that serves the interests of the Greek people, apart from the fact that we are talking about the state money to give it to floods, to strengthen hospitals, health and schools. So we urge you to vote for it and leave the florists, leave the mocking. Let each of us take responsibility here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor. After Mr Tsakalotos, the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will speak, but we have been told that he will come after two. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. When Mr. Skylakakis presented to us why this is a bill that needs to be voted on in the form that we are voting on today, he told us that we are constantly faced with external crises. I don't think he's understood anything, and I hope the government has understood anything more. All these crises we have faced over the last ten years have a very important part of endogenousity. With regard to the financial crisis, have you not heard at all that the structured bonds were rooted in loans to the poorest people in the southern states of America? Have you not heard that in the last twenty - thirty years debts of all kinds have increased, whether they are for private individuals or for banks? Why? Because in the era of neoliberalism we are constantly lending from the future. We do not solve political problems, we do not solve economic problems and we go to lending all kinds of money. That is why we are also waiting for new financial crises, because there is an endogenous one. Is pandemic and COVID really considered entirely exogenous? Have you not heard about the food chain, about how we produce it, about the massity of production and how we need to see production and production reconstruction, precisely why has globalisation created a great deal of danger and many societies and economies that are vulnerable to these pandemics? Does Mr. Pissaridis say anything about this? For the development model we need, to have a prophylaxis of such pandemics and to put in the center what we produce, how do we produce, why do we produce? And now we're getting to what's become a Cardigan. And that's exogenous? Do you really think so? You didn't believe he didn't help you with Matty at the time. But now you still don't understand? You have heard, not only from SYRIZA's MPs and parliamentarians, but from all sides, because the measures you are presenting for Karditsa and other regions - which have our full support - that is not enough. But did I hear the anxiety, the development model we had, the infrastructure we had, what you heard from Mr. Apostle? You didn't answer Mr. Apostle. I didn't understand. In Evia 'were we good and will we do good in Karditsa' or 'Evia we have done well' with their own crisis 'and are we now going to do better'? I would like an answer to that. But Mr. Apostle and others went far further. And Mr. Koutsubas from the JRC. For all the growth model that this has created, are you telling Pissaridis anything about this? Apart from doing something about climate change, you realize that your model has created this "flexibility", that is to say being vulnerable to any crisis, because we don't have the environment in the center and our main development model is how we will help investors not to have restrictions and environmentally friendly... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I speak before the President, so I have 12 minutes, not six. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u89	Because the President will also speak, it is in the Rules of Procedure. We won't interrupt you. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't interfere, please. There'll be a tolerance. The Rules of Procedure say it, I'm not saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u90	I think he's saying other things. But don't argue about it. This government is supposed to be the government of investments. They're not like symbians who don't understand how investment is being made, when investment needs to be made. You're the only one who understands. Let me tell you what I understand is the importance of the investment. You invest now when you expect some profits in the future, or you want to avoid some damage in the future. That's how I understand it's the investment. Were you supposed to invest while we had the first pandemic wave in more IDs back then? Were you supposed to invest in having more public transport routes? Were you supposed to invest to have fewer students in class? Should you invest in supporting the world of work and business, as we have tried to tell you that what you are doing is not enough? That means investment. This means investment for both the state and the private sector. And for the public sector you didn't want to do it, because you didn't want to change this model that has created the three crises that we all analyse. Why do you not want the public sector in the future to be able to protect citizens from pandemics and from climate crises and from economic crises. And instead of that, what are you doing? We have several articles showing a special logic. You said to us, Mr Staikora, that you will not answer, but that we will take an answer to Article 11 and to Article 8 from Mr Petsa. Many colleagues and colleagues have told us what the problem is with Article 11 and how to make advertising. They said first - if you heard it well - that the law is now too flexible if you want to be able to do advertising campaigns faster. The same law you now want to exclude. They told you that you could have planned it from March, April, in May, where the whole world was talking about a second wave. But I'm telling you one more. That you could have invested in primary health too. Why better information for citizens on a strong primary health institution? Wasn't that one of the basic jobs that primary health had to do? To be able to be close to the citizen, to be able to inform them. And all that remains for you is the advertising campaign, which, as we all understand - let us not hide - is a gift to your own friends who have been so helpful to you. And you could've not made a direct assignment if you had planned it this summer. Now, let's go to Article 8 which we have on the increased discount on advertising expenditure. Do you really think this way of spending money is the best? So what are you doing? You give an incentive to businesses that want to spend on advertising while they spent the previous year, to spend it again and to be more profitable than to get more employees. Isn't that right? So you give an incentive to this economic crisis instead of companies being able to get two - three more employees, spend it on costs. Because that's how you understand they're the main motives. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to finish something else that Mr Skulakakis has said. Those of you who are watching us will know that we have had a straight and honest exchange of views on the health system. Mr. Sculakakis told us that we handed over five hundred sixty ICUs. But he didn't tell us how many we found. He didn't tell us how much New Democracy handed over before we came. Did you leave the country with four hundred and thirty positions, yes or no? And he didn't tell us how many he made from the day he took over until the pandemic broke out. Because that's the question. How much did you have, when you say we left you a few seats, until March to raise it? Can you answer that? He also told us about health expenditure in 2014 and 2018, when we - and you have never questioned these elements - increased public health expenditure, in order to get through with the plan that we had near the average - not on the average, because that was a very big goal - of the European Union. And are you telling us about the state of hospitals in 2019? Do you have a picture of where the hospitals were in 2014? Do you have a picture of what Mr. Georgiadis said when he cut it off and said it's my job and I don't want him to take away the glory of the IMF? And finally, you continue to say that we also have a financial problem for the SYRIZA semester in 2015. I shall therefore repeat what I said at the previous sitting. Shame on you for saying that. It's a disgrace. You left the country obligated, bankrupt, with empty funds, with unregulated debt with commitments for a surplus of 4.5% and it is our fault. Have you ever assumed your responsibilities? It's our fault that SYRIZA, the young people the other day, then it's the immigrants. It is time to understand what your challenges are. And since you consider that nothing was wrong before 2010, since you do not understand anything about this growth model that has created the triple crises, you cannot in this crisis get the country out of the stagnation that has arrived. A new government must come with an understanding of what was wrong, because these crises are created, to understand the endogenousity of these crises, so that it can once again get us out of where you reached us. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u91	The Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiaras, has the floor to develop the provision of interest to his ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I am at the forefront of the Greek Parliament to support Article 3 concerning the enforcement of the bill under discussion. Before, however, I put forward my brief thoughts and brief justifications, I would like to speak to you for a moment not as Minister of Justice, but as MP Carditsa, and to tell you that what happened from 18 to 19 September in Cardiff is something that the human mind cannot really fit into. It is an unscrupulous disaster, which takes over the entire area of Karditsa, from the mountains of Argithea, which have disappeared tracks of roads that have been swept away from the water tens of bridges, to the town of Karditsa which has destroyed the entire professional and business world, but of course also the destruction of agricultural production. For those who know Karditsa, it's a purely rural place. Cotton, which was to be collected a few days later, after essentially the particular theory, you realise that it cannot in no way be collected and disasters are literally incalculable. The Greek state - I think you all know - reacted in time. There were reflexes that were not previous times, not only from the government, but from the whole political world, and that is something I have to accept and admit in public. The Prime Minister from the first moment in contact with all of us has been commanding us to go four to five hours later, the moment the waterproof, a government step in Karditsa, stopped. Basically two days later he was found to see for himself what has happened and, of course, to launch a framework of answers and solutions or options that could help our prefecture especially at this difficult time. Two days later the Minister of Finance signed a decision which basically financed all the municipalities in the county in order to support the local citizens. And, of course, it is well known that the whole political leadership of our country has been there. 'I am pleased' because, in such short time as the Greek Parliament manages to legislate on relief measures and, of course, contrary to other times, because we must also say this, the reflexes which are displayed by the people who have this role, but, of course, because there is also a acquired experience, I think it is a positive sign in every direction that, on the one hand, the government is something very positive, but also for the citizens of the country, the citizens of Carditsa, you realise that it is a fact that creates a spiral of optimism and a ray of hope that they can soon be found where they were. There has been a lot of talk about whether the measures are satisfactory or not, whether or not the sums given, the EUR 600 for the citizens, the EUR 5 000 for the households or the EUR 8 000 for the businesses are enough to start again, to relaunch the local economy. I think we all have the experience of standing in a very serious way against a generalized phenomenon, which is even appreciated today. Even today we may be voting on a package of measures, but I would like to tell you that what has actually happened actually records incalculable disasters. It's not enough. We all know. The measures, however, will be specific. There will be more measures. It is a debate that has been held with the Prime Minister's presence with all the relevant bodies who participated in this meeting. It is a reassurance of the Greek state through the Government that this effort does not stop at the announcement of the Evia measures. Do you know what the only element differentiates the consequences of the prefecture in Carditsa Prefecture? That destruction is from the end. It is not a localized geographical phenomenon, as happened in the neighbouring prefectures of Trikala, Larissa or even Magnesia. In Karditsa, destruction is literally from the north to the south and from the east to the west. That is why I think that now all we can vote on and that, of course, I repeat very quickly that the government can bring to the attention of the Greek Parliament, what has been put forward since the first moment, is that there should be a comprehensive recovery plan for the country's economy so that Karditsas can restart on her feet. This, too, seems to me to be a need, which must also be described with due responsibility and with due seriousness by everyone in the Greek Parliament. It is very easy to make criticisms or very easy to offer everything to everyone. However, when there are certain specific data and when there are citizens, who are literally on the verge of indignation, despair and, of course, fear of the next day, what is needed at least by the political system is to show the necessary responsibility and the necessary seriousness. As far as the competence of the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I will tell you that Article 3 concerning the auctions provides for the suspension of any act of enforcement on transferable or immovable property, whether natural or legal, until 30-9-2021. And, of course, we are talking about the areas declared in an emergency by decision of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection because of the natural disasters caused by the Mediterranean Cyclone 'Janus'. For the same period the deadlines for bringing proceedings and assistance relating to pending enforcement proceedings shall be suspended. What are we going to do with this provision? In supporting the affected areas recognised by the state, but, of course, it turns out that there is a real need for this exceptional measure to be taken in order to alleviate the people of these regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u93	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps I would not ask today for the floor if I did not believe that what you are doing is - and you are doing so systematically - deeply offensive to citizens and deeply provoking and dangerous to democracy. At a time when the economy collapses, while the pandemic is out of hand and you are falling from one contradiction at the same time as you are incapable of managing even the floods in Thessaly and in the Ionian Islands, while the insecurity is dominated by the majority of Greeks and households, and in the meantime you have not given 1 euro in order to strengthen public hospitals with permanent doctors and nurses, to strengthen public schools with more teachers, not to make our children a lesson stacked to twenty-five - twenty-five to twenty-seven in classes, while you have not strengthened public transport and are stacking citizens, while you are pulling the finger on them to be careful and to keep their distance, what are you doing? You give more money and more money to the media again without conditions, again without criteria, apparently because you've opened up a fabric here, apparently because you're in a panic and inability to manage reality. And since you cannot manage reality, what you want is to blackmail the media to hide reality. That's never happened before. You are rushing to give today an additional 2 million to national pandemic messaging channels, while we all know that by law they are required to display such messages free of charge. These are unheard of things. You appear like a loan shark at a time when the channels actually face financial problems, such as most companies in Greece, to give them money, obviously having a sense or seeking to return them to you in propaganda, in silence, in a symposium of those who criticise you. But I must admit that your reflexes are excellent. How promptly you are now, now that you see the anger of the citizens about the inability - and you, Mr. Tsiara, are well aware of the anger, in your place you saw - now that you see the wrath of the citizens glorifying about your inability to manage major crises, you are rushing to give money to the channels to hide or distort reality. But obviously - and here is the problem - you do not show the same reflexes on the issues relating to the lives of the Greeks. I visited your city, Mr. Chiara, Karditsa, last Monday. I'd be there Saturday if it wasn't for the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. There was a delegation of SYRIZA MPs there. But for four days, until I was in Koumoundourou street and chatting with shopkeepers in despair, for four days, not only hadn't gone a step governmental, not only hadn't set foot there - I'm not talking about the Prime Minister - not even the municipal authority, the mayor, not found next to them, to hit their backs, to say "here we are". Hidden, the mayor, and the district authority, and the district chief, and the district commanders. And now passed a whole week from the passage of 'Janu' and there are still entire villages excluded in the Region of Thessaly, yet. Karditsa all drowned, and Mr. Mitsotakis went on Tuesday, after six days, and went like a thief. And, okay, he went the way he went. But be careful. The perpetrators of their destruction hid them under his brave wings. And I am referring to, for more than ten years now, the District Administrator of Thessaly and the Mayor of Karditsa today and the former Vice-President of Thessaly. Because all the media have learned the name of a regional ruler in the past four years. For everything that was happening in Attica - in the other regions, it was not mentioned - it was the district manager's fault. Mr. Buyer's name will never know the mayor's name today. Because the responsibilities of the time-consuming local government are not one year old are responsibilities over the last few decades. But in this case ten days later - let's leave the responsibilities for what happened, let's see how you responded - and infrastructure continues to be damaged, restoration work is done at turtle rate, and they are still excluded villages and residents in the mountain range of the Agravian. Bridges and road networks have not been restored and communication with these people is and will long be impossible or at best problematic. And the question we raised - because we also operated difficulties with natural disasters and suffered criticism and errors, and for weaknesses, and for omissions - but in these disasters, the next day, there was a step in the old MOMA, the army, and restored all the communications, road networks, could be restored immediately, in Crete, in Skopelos, everywhere. Why didn't you think of that? Didn't you think through your mind, or did you think that if you restore these road damages, the forces and workshops of the Greek army, the direct assignments to contractors and suppliers will not be possible afterwards? That's the reality. Now let's go see what's going on in the municipality of Carditsa, in the city of Carditsa, to tell me if it's to be indignant and say "E, no!" I'll tell you now. The image, ten days later, still reminds of biblical destruction. The shops are still cleaned by their owners, without any assistance from the municipality and the district. The sidewalks are full of damaged goods. The mud has covered everything. Of the seven thousand registered companies at the Carditsa Chamber, 80% have catastrophes, which are total catastrophes, whether people have been completely destroyed or have catastrophes at 60% to 90% of their commercial property. You are also talking about the immediate restoration and healing of the wounds with a help - a mockery of 8 000 euros, when the damage exceeds 50,000 to 200,000 euros. Why don't you go and record them? And we're talking about a city of forty-five thousand inhabitants, we're not talking about a settlement. As magical, however, no one speaks today of Cardica, ten days later. We've forgotten her, she's not on the map. When I went and met the citizens, after their anger - I want to be honest with you - the first wave of wrath was in local government. The second wave of rage was in the media. You know what I was told? "We're here, aren't we Greece? Is it only Mandra that is Greece? Where did a station come to show what has happened here, a channel to show our wounds, to teach them the hellinio to mobilize and the government to respond?” And of course, as long as the time passes, the ball will obviously take the government choices. You're going to tell me: And how much should we give? And what should we give? And how do we give? Do you know what the big deal is? The big thing is that these people have been hit by the flood over a period of time when they have already seen their economies fall because of the deep recession, which in the second quarter were 15.2%, Mr Stakoura, and on the basis of what the Parliament's Budget Office says, the third quarter will be more than 15.2% - so it says - and in the middle of a period where we have all seen a new wave of red loans and these people on the ground and, in fact, during a time when you have no budgetary obligation from the European Union. You do not have a 3.5% surplus obligation, as we did when we thought of the last euro in corresponding disasters, nor do you have any failure to access the markets. You may even have the Commission and the European Central Bank and all the officials who have previously seen what we are wasting - what we are spending, why we weren't wasting - saying 'heavy spending, waste money to save society and the economy'. And you come to these people and tell them "take 8,000 euros" into damages which, I repeat, are incalculable. You do the same to the plain, to the farmers. And not only in Karditsa, but also in Lamia and other areas. Just a moment ago, however, I was saying that you would be surprised and possibly you would announce, "hey, no!", I was informed that judges are engaging in confiscation and payment orders to the affected people of Carditsa. I wonder, Mr. Chiara, why is this your concern...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, you did not hear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Chiara, these are specific complaints. To see whether or not the suspension, which you told us a moment ago, applies, and to supervise - you are responsible, you are government - whether or not these complaints are true. Because these people aren't that they suddenly went crazy, they didn't come out and say things that aren't happening, obviously they happened what I'm saying to you. Prosecutors may order seizures and payment orders to affected residents of Karditsa. And the question is: How hard was it to show speed on this issue of suspending these people's obligations to every debtor for a reasonable period of time? How is it possible for your reflexes, reflexes of the Prime Minister and the Ministers to be so direct when it comes to riding banks and the public, who are casino owners, but not microprofessionals in Karditsa, and when they are small businessmen or medium-sized people, who see life-long labor being destroyed, to have no reflexes? That's the question I'm asking you. Indeed, that is where we must all declare together: E, not so! [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] And you know what? You will account for them, for hypocrisy, but also for your anesthesia to the people of the middle class. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is also cynicism and the same indifference in the management of pandemic. Mr. Mitsotakis came out the day before yesterday to make a request to the Greek people, just before he left for three days at his country house in Tinos, to tell us that if things are not going well, it will be your fault, the citizens all, that he will have no responsibility. His responsibility was only when he pulled the handbrake, but when the governments throughout the world and in Europe did so. Now that seven months has left the National Health System powerless, which has opened up tourism without health protocols, to do the favour of "TUI" and other major tourist agencies, now that he has left citizens without access to a free coronary test, he has no responsibility. Only the citizens have responsibility. Do you know what that's called? That's called irresponsibility. What you're doing is on the one hand irresponsible and on the other hand a symphony. Citizens' conclu­sions. Imresponsibility, why continue, I repeat, not do the self-evident thing. You don't give money for public health. We currently have 5% less permanent and extraordinary doctors and nurses than we had a year ago and we have a pandemic crisis. You do not go to substantial, permanent recruitment, nor to one and one temporary staff who are obviously insufficient to cover the problem. We have, as I said before, twenty thousand fewer substitutes in public schools and the children are stacked every twenty-five or twenty-seven in classes, while at night the same children may be asked to dismantle - and rightly so - if they are nine in square. In the square they can't be ten, in the halls they can be twenty-seven. In addition, you have made no substantial intervention in public transport. Tell me something now. Would it cost you, would it cost you so much in the public budget, Mr Stavoura, to legislate on prescribing the coronary test for all citizens for free and to pay for it at the price it really costs? Its cost is 20 to 25 euros and citizens are invited to pay 120 or 130 euros in private hospitals and workshops. How much would that cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u97	They pay 70 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u98	You tell us how much it does, then, that you know better. We appreciate, we have the knowledge, the information, that 20 to 25 euros cost the Greek public. If you have any further information, you can tell it. That's why we're having a dialogue here. How much would that cost to the Treasury? Apparently, less than what you give the channels. Of course, that would not make a profit for the various acquaintances and friends. Private diagnostic centers and private nurses would not profit. Okay, so it is, but tell the truth, the judgment as an opportunity for some. As with intensive care units, where in private hospitals you have doubled the cost of the public and will total more than EUR 30 million. Why would the time of crisis be the profit in the thought of some? I won't say it. Let those who have to look for them look for them. Who are they who win, why they win and how commissions are made? I'm not going into this, I'm going to reason. Your perception at the time of the crisis, instead of strengthening the State's intervention, the public health system, the concept of public space, to meet the needs of society, you again think about the profit of individuals. It is quite right, then, to ask the average citizen, and he says: For some money there is, for the media, for the clinical authorities, but for others there is no money, for professionals in Carditsa, for farmers who see their property being destroyed. Imresponsibility, therefore, lack of responsibility. At the same time, however, there is also a slander and that is the worst. Why, you've now found out who the blame is for everything. They are the citizens who do not obey and above all the young people, these disciples who disperse the virus because they do not fall to sleep early, those who fight in their schools to be safe and to have quality education, and you deliberately equate them with conspirators and say that students claim not to wear a mask and that their movement is the movement against the mask or the cheesepit movement. But the more you slander them, the more you will shine the reaction that comes from underneath. That's how it happens, where there's action there's a reaction. All the countries of the European Union are taking measures, immediate action to curb the second wave of pandemic. All you do is swear young people and close the booths. All right, let's compare citizens, what's going on elsewhere and what's going on here. You have converted the management of the pandemic into a blame game. You obviously don't do this accidentally. There is one logic behind, one plan: Turn one part of society towards the other. The older ones blame the younger ones. Locals accuse refugees and attack baby children and that they will bring us the problem. Workers and entrepreneurs must become the experimental animals of your economic policy that breaks down the world of work, but also the middle class. But you don't care about any of this. I would also like to return to the issue of the additional 2 million in the media. Take it back, Minister. Mr. Pecha, take it back, because it's a disgrace to democracy. Do not do so any more. Journalism and information. You won't be saved from this. Whatever you do, reality is so stubborn that it can't be hidden. I am also addressing the owners of national television stations. Don't take it from the money. Give that money to the National Health System. Give it to the Cardits' flooders. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They're not going to save you two million euros. Do not also become accomplices to a government that wishes to turn the country into the field of information in Hungary in Orban. The most important issue is dignity and credibility from a number of thousands of euros. Before I go down from this Step, however, I should like not to omit, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of the parliamentary majority, so that you do not say that I am hard constantly and rude to you, to congratulate your government and Mr Mitsotakis personally on the joint communiqué that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has made today, Mr Deedias, with his American counterpart for strategic cooperation between Greece and the United States, which was posted today, unequivocally, on the official website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to which both the Greek and American Governments welcome together the historic agreement of the Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u99	The story has black pages.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u100	Here you go, Mrs. Vulge, yours. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So now that we agree, and it says so with its signature and your government, Mrs Vulture, and ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber of Deputies, that this agreement is a historic one, what are you hiding? What are you afraid of? Now that you have taken the thoughts of voting for one, one, one, the sanctions of the agreements. Nobody's gonna blame you. One hundred and fifty eight apologies. It's not much. A soul that's to come out, let's go out. We expect you all to vote together in favour of this historic agreement. One hundred and fifty eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u101	The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u102	I have listened with particular attention to the Chief of Staff Responsibility constantly repeating the phrase: 'This is the reality'. Reality and Mr. Tsipras are words that are incompatible. Virtual reality and Mr Tsipras - it is well known - the citizens have identified it. So he told us about a virtual reality. You've ruled four and a half years. It has been proven that the economy is not your fault. It has also been shown that dealing with natural disasters - to remind Mandra, the Eye - is not your cause. Nor is it your responsibility to manage the institutional issues. Because some questions have been asked by the government about some publications that have not been answered. So a lot of attention when you move the finger into this government, when citizens know. And that when you're talking about apologies, you obviously have to say a lot more apologies for all of this. To gather a little and to speed up what we have heard: Panic, irresponsibility, anesthesia, cynicism, indifference, anger, incompetence, pulling, hiding like thieves, giving gifts. I will tell you one thing: let's listen to society. Society says: "Fortunately, you are not ruling today." Because if you were to rule today, we would not have dealt with matters seriously. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I heard Mr. Tsipras saying we're hidden. I will repeat what I said in my prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u103	I'm sorry, wait a minute. Please, be quiet. The Chief of Officer Response has been heard by everyone with care. Please, we must do the same for the Minister. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u104	I heard Mr. Tsipras saying we're hidden. Mr. Tsiaras will talk about Carditsa County very thoroughly. Let's go to the border county, the Fhotidis County. On Friday night I was there, along with my colleague SYRIZA and the New Democracy colleagues. Yesterday, I was at an open event in Lianocles organized by opposition parties. I was there. Where did you see we were hidden? We are barely making our thoughts and suggestions and it seems to be a response from society. And I can give you more evidence like I did. However, you do not speak of them. I said that the measures are complementary. I talked about 12 meters. They're complementary. And, obviously, the measures were taken in good time. Let me remind you when an announcement was made. The Communication from the Ministry of Finance took place on Saturday, September 19, 2020, i.e. a few hours after the event. On Saturday at noon there was a statement from the Ministry of Finance, following a mandate from the Prime Minister and an agreement from the Government with specific measures. And we've been coming every four days and we've been accountable for how the implementation of these measures is going. When do you do it for natural disasters? When, since you didn't even go. And you're talking about us being almost day by day with colleagues? This will allow me to tell you, he wants courage. And you've got a lot of nerve. I have heard Mr Tsipras say about five and eight thousand measures which have not been implemented. Indeed, there was a reflection from a SYRIZA colleague. Here too, we have to be very precise. In the case of Evia, there were a thousand four hundred and twenty-two applications. Six hundred and twenty two have been paid to date, not the number that has been heard. The joint ministerial decision came out on 15 September. Since then we've been paying normally. What hasn't been paid? Not all applications have been paid, which are completely wrong. What does "wrong" mean? It means the wrong VAT - I don't think you want us to pay the wrong VAT - the wrong bank accounts, the same real estate, but declared with another property regime. It has sent the Ministry of Infrastructure e-mail, it has also called to correct them in order to pay as soon as possible. I heard 'You have no speed'. In five days we have legislated and there is a ministerial decision to suspend tax obligations for six months. And we also made an announcement that there would be no misunderstandings or misunderstandings from the Civic Opposition for the ENPY. In one week, we legislate on auctioning and confiscations. We've shown immediate reflexes. And I would like to tell you that this is recognised by the colleagues of the Officerial Response when we are together on a local basis, where the floods occurred. They're recognized. And I thank them for the SYRIZA colleagues when they are there. They say other words here. I have heard Mr Tsipras say that we have put the country at 3.5% of GDP primary surpluses. I guess he's messed up. He, with the third memorandum, put 3.5% primary surplus. And he made a very big blow. He said: 'Europe says to you: waste the money'. Watch the verb: waste money. Obviously, we have a radical disagreement with you. We're not wasting resources. We make use of resources. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Take note of what he said: 'Stop it'. You are absolutely represented by this verb. 'Screw'. We are creating resources and exploiting them for the benefit of the citizens, particularly in the lower income blocks with economic efficiency and social justice. We're not wasting resources like you are. We make use of resources. And I'm closing down with some specific issues. Mr. Tsakalots at some point said the incredible country is in a stall and is bankrupt. We don't need to talk about the first half of 2015. Let's not go back to the past, 'cause he dived in the past. We all know very well what happened. We know very well who put the country in new memos. We know very well who led the country to the stall. We know very well who knows and who doesn't know how to invest. And I come to what you said. At the beginning of the speech you said that in the crisis we did not use resources to invest in health. Towards the end of your speech you said: "The issue is not how much resources you waste during the crisis, but how much resources you use before the crisis." Eventually before the crisis, or after the crisis? So here you have no clear position. Mr. Chaakalot, if you didn't understand me repeat it to you. At the beginning of your position you said: "In the health crisis, we did not use many resources..."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u105	So you were wrong, and you said "we're breaking".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u106	I didn't. As you can see, the'spread' is still about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very much to complete the process calmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u108	You said that the crucial issue is how many resources you use in the health crisis to strengthen health. When the Deputy Minister of Finance gave you an answer, what did you answer? ‘No. The crucial issue is how many beds you create before the health crisis is created, because then you prove if you want to strengthen public health." Move the scores to the left and right. The truth is that today there are - and you have received answers - seven hundred five beds without private beds and military hospitals and will increase much more. There was a referral a moment ago by Mr Pecha to the parliamentary authors. I repeat: "The effort to strengthen the ESS to withstand any pressures from the double threat of coronary and influenza continues. In October, the National Health System will acquire another sixty-seven beds of ITH from donations, while since December it will begin to add a hundred and seventy-four beds of ITH and MAF from the great donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. And I close, because you spoke of staff, of health since 2015, and they had not been recruited by permanent staff. We proceeded to six thousand plus two hundred extra staff, doctors and nurses. Most of them will be permanentized. In addition, the recruitment of a thousand two hundred doctors to permanent posts of medical staff is immediately completed and further four hundred are awarded. Immediately the coverage of a thousand and sixteen other staff posts is completed and the specialisation of two and a half thousand nurses begins. In the training that you said, we proceeded with permanent appointments of four and a half thousand teachers and special assistant and educational staff in special education and education. In addition, tens of thousands of five hundred permanent appointments to general education are immediately completed. So, as long as you're in danger, we won't triumph, but we'll capture reality and we'll continue to work low-headed, modestly, seriously and responsibly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Tsakalotos, they've asked the Rules of Procedure after Mr. Tsipras's speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u111	I want to answer the minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u112	I understand, but it's not happening now. All the ministers will respond first to Mr Tsipras and then immediately thereafter as a parliamentary representative, of course, you will have the floor. Mr. Tsiaras, Mr. Petsas, Mrs. Kerameos, has asked for the floor and immediately after you. Thank you. Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the Chief of Staff Response incoming did not listen to the appeal I made towards all the wings for responsibility and seriousness in the face of the pain and the real despair of the Cardinals. On the contrary, he tried to operate in a way that is politically unacceptable to me, but I will explain to you on specific issues and on specific grounds why. Mr. Tsipras spoke of the absence of the state. Do you really believe that, ladies and gentlemen? I personally got to Carditsa and stayed there until Wednesday morning. Four hours after the waterbath stop, with the Prime Minister's mandate there was a government step in Karditsa involving Ministers, involving Secretary-General in order to have a direct account of reality. Tell me when about your days in two days was there a ministerial decision to fund the municipalities after a natural disaster? When did you see, after three days, there would be a hundred fifty engineers from the Ministry of Infrastructure to record the reality? When is the Prime Minister with six ministers found in Carditsa to see exactly what happened, is it a reality that was repeated over your days? Look, I tried to avoid a reference to the past. Are you saying that to the former Prime Minister, with Matty and Mandra, with the loss of the lives of hundreds of people burdening the Greek state and creating such issues? How serious is this approach? Please tell me. No one informed the Chief of Officer's Representation that it was a weather phenomenon that occurs once in eighty years on the basis of scientists' records. Do you know that the water that fell in Karditsa in sixteen hours is equivalent to the rainfall of eight months? Did you know that? Did you hear? Did you look for a little more and more of what happened before we started the auction and the known practice? Do you know that since the first moment ELGA has been there with the presence of the President of ELGA all these days and of the Vice-President, but of course also a multitude of assessors, in order to see what the natural disaster is and to what extent, in any case, the compensation must be paid? Is it not something that should have been considered by the Prime Minister at the very first time? Ladies and gentlemen, I am really sorry. Even the fact that I came to legislate here today for the suspension of auctions for a year is something that Mr Tsipras either did not read or did not understand. If we want to play communication show, it's obviously too easy and we didn't... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Look, instead of making the communication shows that some others once made knowing that there are dead, we preferred to be there and run next to the people of Carditsa. That's our difference. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's what you don't understand. Instead of making those acquaintances that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, please. He was before the Chief of Officer Response here and they were all careful and there was no noise, and when there was one, they stopped. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u115	What we have seen is happening in a provocative way in a previous period, have not been repeated now. We were there next to the people of Karditsa and we did everything possible. And it should normally be the whole political world, all Parliament's wings to say a great thank you to the fire brigade that did everything in order to help the world. The Prime Minister's message was that human lives should not be lost. Do you know what this weather phenomenon was when we have the corresponding examples of the recent past and how much we could mourn today? Of course, we regret that three of our fellow men have lost their lives. For us the value of human life, you know, is truly incalculable and we could never play with it. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat. It is very easy in a reasonable policy that confrontation enables us to use all weapons, to do so in a cynical way. How easily anyone can be sorry about what happened in Karditsa and then rejoice, because he was supposed to have been politically justified, I think we saw it just earlier in the presence of the Chief of Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Loverdo, Mr. Heta, wait a minute. There's nothing else I can do. They've asked the ministers to do immediately after the Chief of Officerial Response. Immediately after the ministers, Mr. Chakalotos will speak. Mr Chakalotos has been asked to speak and then you will speak, Mr Lebanon. I understand that you have to go to a committee, but, unfortunately, I cannot go beyond Mr Tsakalotou's answer. I get it, but there's been a change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I wanted to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u122	The Minister's leaving. If he's gone, there's no point in talking. I wanted to talk to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u123	Please, if Mr. Chakalotos accepts it, I am delighted to see you. Please, she needs to speak, she's a deputy. Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to intervene to comment on two, three points said by the Chief of Staff. The main issue we all have to decide in the Chamber is whether or not we need a professional coronary information campaign. The government believes that yes, and the government is elected to implement its policy, for which the citizens have elected, not for what the Qualified Opposition thinks. And he showed the first campaign - "We stay home and stay safe" - that this information campaign saved lives and we believe it will save lives again now. If, then, we respond categorically that we need an information campaign, we need to see whether it can be combined with the free messages of social content, as the Chief of Police Vice-Population said. And, indeed, it can be combined. We did so in March and May, and we did so and now we have just opened schools with a special campaign, with special messages from the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs adopted by the National Broadcasting Council and played free of charge from the channels. However, along with the free messages, we must also have a professional information campaign and the amount we prefer this time is EUR 2 million for national television channels, because this covers the effectiveness we want with this amount, which is relatively limited. And why does it cover? Because it has all the features we want, as anyone who's going to tell you about marketing, even new year's students can tell you that television can cover what we need now, which is citizens' awareness of the measures set up by the experts and the state adopts. Also, Mr Tsipras said that the EUR 2 million would not cost anything, they would cover all the tests - supposedly - that the state could do for the whole population. You're not doing well with the numbers, Mr. Tsipras is not doing well with the numbers, it's known. However, can we say that for eleven million to ten million, I - Greek, if we take out the very small children, with the 20 euros that Mr Tsipras said it costs a test - if it costs 20 euros - does it cost this sum to billions, if we repeat the tests? Why don't we talk about a test, obviously, we're talking about some tests over the next few months, not just about one. This whole amount is worth billions. Is it possible to speak and compare the billions with the EUR 2 million of a campaign that comes just to save lives, so that the health system does not get worse, so that IF beds or intensive care units are taken much more? Also, this EUR 2 million amount is 0.029% of the EUR 6.8 billion package announced by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki a few weeks ago to support the economy at this stage, a minimum amount in relation to our wider economic support policy and not to confuse social policy with an information campaign such as this. Social policy, support for the world of work, the need for the productive fabric to remain in place with the tools used by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and the other ministries of the Government is another thing to be told. I should also like to close - as far as the issue of authoritarian supposed reflexes is concerned, who wants to look like Mr Orban? The one who might want to use fronts like Mr. Kalogericas, who himself denounces it to control the joints of power? We want to inform the citizens, we don't want anyone to manipulate, we want to save lives, and that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Kerameau has the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance contains two provisions concerning the Ministry of Education. The first in Article 10 provides that the appropriations for the recruitment of additional educational and special training staff and special assistant staff for the smooth operation of educational structures in the school year 2020-2021, data and increased needs due to the coronary. We are talking about additional funds of EUR 100 to EUR 118 million added to the additional EUR 200 million for recruitment of educational staff. With all this, then, we are talking about over EUR 300 million, which is in addition to the permanent appointments, in addition to the thirty-two thousand recruitments of alternates already made. Second provision in Article 13: Elections for the appointment of elected members of the educational staff and special education and training staff will be held from Saturday to working day and time, in order to avoid interruption of the training function and not to suspend the operation of schools. There is also provision for the possibility of an electronic vote to be taken. The implementation of these arrangements will already apply from the forthcoming November elections. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u127	Thank you. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor. I will tell you that you have spoken - to be fair - eleven minutes and twenty-three seconds. I'll give you four minutes so there won't be any problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. First, I should like to explain to Mr Stakoura something that if he listened to my speech, he would understand. I said how many ID seats we were left with, how many ID seats we arrived. And I say how many you did before the pandemic, to explain the argument that you don't care about the public sector. So if the pandemic had fallen another year later, in 2021, would you have invested in it? Would you have the prevention? It was - I think - so clear what I wanted to say, that only someone who quickly wants to feed the opponent, who doesn't listen to the argument, could misunderstand it, but it's not the dominant one, that you can't read, read, understand what the opponent says, because you're used to the channels not having a hard job, so you don't even hear the counter-project, because you don't listen, you don't have any counter-problems. Really, does Mr. Tsipras present a virtual reality? So what he described about Carditsa and the total destruction and the people in despair are virtual reality? Is it a virtual reality what Mr. Tsipras said and said when our own people went, that they haven't seen any Minister there? They went to the shopkeepers. Is that a virtual reality? Is it virtual reality that Karditsa has disappeared from the media, while when our own disasters were made - which our President had the honesty to say that we also made mistakes - were in the channels every day, as Mr Tsipras said again, Dourou, and now Mr Aggostos is nowhere? And that's virtual reality? Is the Pecha List virtual reality - and now you're continuing for it - while you knew from summer that there might be a second pandemic, a second wave and you could have prepared the campaign? Is it a virtual reality that you have not invested in primary health so that citizens can get real information? Because, forgive me, no matter how much I appreciate the channels and listen to them, I will hear a local doctor explaining to me what the dangers are, but that's not for you. This is not the reality for you. Virtual reality is Alexis Tsipras really, while has his tongue hairdryed to explain how important primary health is? Is it a virtual reality that the schools opened up with twenty-five thousand educational gaps, that you got half the surrogates from last year? Is that a virtual reality? Do you have a picture of reality? Did the Pecha list and the channels eventually won't help you, why don't you even get the information and have people around you telling you what you want to hear and not what you need to know? And know that the Greek people very quickly will understand what the virtual reality is and what the reality is that lives every day with the triple crisis. I don't think you'll change. I don't think you're going to change and believe in the public sector, I don't think you're going to change to support the economy, because you have other contracts, you have other debts, which is something that every day it passes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. Mr. Loverdos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I wanted to speak on a point of order that needs to be regulated. It's not your fault, but I wanted to say something to Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u131	What can I do, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u132	Now what do I do? What am I supposed to do now in retrospective terms for you to give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Loverdo, there's a government. You know that, you're more experienced than we do. What am I supposed to do about Mr. Chiara now? Can I get him to the room?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u134	No, Mr. President. The Rules of Procedure say that when the Ministers speak, the parliamentary representatives have the right to ask for the floor. Now, in the order of things, it couldn't happen. I don't want to eat you time, so I quit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u135	Mr Hetas has the floor and immediately after Mr Lebanese. As you can see, if we continued with this process, the MPs would never finish. Mr. Hetas is complaining about exactly the opposite. I couldn't do anything else. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, I'm gonna change the show a little bit, 'cause things went ahead. However, Mr Pecha, with all due respect and despite the fact that you did not tell us what you said, you should know that you have achieved something. You have succeeded in passing in history as the "Petsa List" and indeed in sequel: 1, 2 and 3. Whatever you do, this will never leave you. Some politicians have linked their name to something. For example, we call 'the Orphanou Law', 'Katrugalou Law', 'lista Petsa'. This will follow you for a lifetime. And let me deal with this, because I'm a man of communication. I'm a journalist twenty-seven years in private channels and not just. So I know how the system works. Mr Stavoura - and I will be back in a little while, Mr Petsa, on the Petsa list - we will not scoop over the three coffins that we have, nor will we have a micropolitics for what has happened in Karditsa. No, we're not doing that. But I want to tell you this because at some point you're forgetting and you don't understand that the world out there is watching us. Minister, today we should talk about self-evident things, bring alleviations to the world. And this, like I told you in the hallway, you did well. And I will tell you here in front of everyone. You've changed a lot and that's in your honor. I'm fine with saying it. We're not just here to shoot. No, I'll say it! However, you do not allow us to vote, because instead of bringing a bill only for the affected, to relieve these people and all the National Representation to set an example and to vote for this bill and to show that it is united for these people, you are starting the alchemy, not yours, but other ministries, such as no lists, not those, things, etc. You bring them all together and we can't vote for them. So you're wronging yourself, because you're trying to get some relief measures for the world, but you're confusing them with other things, so the result comes out to be negative. So you can't have the participation of all of us either, but you're confusing us. That's the problem and you're unfair to yourself. That's what you're doing! And I'll tell you something else. The world there suffers, society cannot withstand comparison and challenge. When he sees, compares and is caused. He sees, then, that here we have knots on how to save them, at the same time, which a few days earlier, for example, we had built the new camps in Moria within four days. There was a direct response there, and there is something different here. Mr. Petsa, you really hadn't dried the ink and brought a second list to camouflage with a wrap, if you like, the new gifts you give the big businessmen and canalarchs. That's it! It's clear. That's the truth! No matter how much you want to change it, it's the truth. After all, social messages are free of charge. Oblig them to play more and invite experts to talk about the pandemic. Free! Why do we have to give money? We should also look at the small and mediumsized ones, because that is how the sense of injustice is created. The small and medium - sized one that has been affected and is not being donated by the government, while the government cares for the majesty, feels unfair. It really is. Those who really win are the big multinationals and the big companies. And now I come to an issue where the truth is that I had it low on the list, but Mr. Tsipras came here with great vigilance and put it up high. I am referring to the issue of the Prespecies Agreement. First of all, I would like to say to the former Prime Minister, who expects a hundred and fifty and eight - and I am right to say - from the New Democracy that instead of waiting for "apologies", it would be a good thing for SYRIZA to apologize to the Greek people for the Prespecies Agreement at some point. The truth is, Mr Ministers and colleagues of the New Democracy, that the difficult ones really start now. It's interesting to see which one of you will be invited to pull the snake out of the hole. Because the information says the ruling party finds it difficult to find rapporteurs for sanctions with Skopje. So who will be the one proposing these two sanctions? I think of two, three who could do so, and who will probably not even be sad enough to defend the Embassy Agreement. But I have in my mind and the people of New Democracy who will probably be with their heads in it that day. So who's going to put his head on the prespecies necklace? Let's see you here! Because the proposal of the Greek Solution was one and clear from the first day and concerned the setting up of a committee of inquiry to look at the responsibilities. Let it change the deal or it doesn't change. We don't say such things. Let's see what happened those days. We're still waiting and I don't see any particular sensitivity. The so-called cohorts of New Democracy and SYRIZA in the Greek Parliament on a backdrop of Macedonia are over. The world is no different from that, because you both have a lot of responsibilities. Nor did anyone say about the gift Mr. Tsipras, SYRIZA, made in New Democracy. No roll-call votes are made, Mr Tsipras. Wait until the sanctions come first to the Greek Parliament, to appoint the rapporteurs and make a roll-call vote that day. There we can see 'how many scoundrels the bag gets'! Because what you did was a gift to Mr. Mitsotakis. You prepared him for your attitudes, of course withdrew sanctions for a period of time and you are fine. That's why we're saying you're the same as big and important. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Staikora, who is not here now - and Mr Petsa, I told you before that we do not always blame him. In fact, today we will tell you another "bravo" about what the Greek Police, the Anti-terrorism and the EUP investigation has done for the thirty three members of the NGOs you arrested. You've restructured a circuit for formation offences, integration into a criminal organization, and he's on his way out. That's what happened today. It is a post of the newspaper "KATHMERINI", which we will be tabling in the Minutes. So what were you doing here? You made the point. And here's another Greek solution vindication. We are not xenophobic, gentlemen of the Left, we have nothing with these people who are illegally entering our country. Some are taking advantage of them, some are working on them. We have been calling two and a half years and we say that of the four hundred and fifty NGOs, which are illegal immigration cancer, the twenty, thirty are healthy, sound and functional. All the others consist of superintendents who want to make money, to work on all these people, to send them here, and they to finance. So today, you did your job. It says in the post that following the fires in Moria, the Greek Police, the Anti-terrorist and the NSA did the investigation and arrested these thirty three crooks who made money on the human pain and at the expense of Greece. Do it self-evident, we told you, shut down the NGOs. Should they set fire? If all this had been done a year and a half ago, we wouldn't have arrived where we arrived. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the Greek-Turkish years. Years, too, we are calling and shouting the President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos for the provision of "anti-drone" and "anti-UAV" systems. Did you see what they did the other day in Kastelorizo, the ones you want to hold a dialogue with? Drone blackened the Greek flag. They're the ones you want to talk to! With them! These terrorists you want to talk to! And what are the data on dialogue? Turkey constantly adds claims to us. All the time! We have not made it clear what we are not talking about. We're only talking about what we're talking about. We have not come out clearly to say that we are not talking about this, about disarmament of islands, about Thrace, to say that we are not talking about it. We're just talking about the continental shelf. That's all we're saying. We haven't made that clear. All we have left in this dialogue, going to this battle is how we lose less. I say it with a sad soul, really, but that's the truth. And is there any chance that Greek government will proceed to partial disarmament of islands? Is that ever possible? Ask the millions of Greeks who are watching us if they accept the withdrawal of Greek armed forces from the islands of the Aegean Sea and the tradition of local populations in the mountains of Turks. Ask if even a Greek accepts! No one accepts it. And we ask: Is this the case? We're not getting a reply. You said that this was not the case, that it was not the case. So today there is a reply from the State Department to Mr Ignatiou's question whether there is a discussion and a matter of disarmament of the islands and answers the State Department: "As you know we have spoken about it and the Minister has certainly talked about it too many times about the need to degrade the Eastern Mediterranean. We welcome the communication of 22 September on the resumption of the exploratory talks between Greece and Turkey, and of course we encourage it. So I am sure that the matter will be discussed." 'So I am sure that this will be discussed'! You're deviating Greece. Don't you dare do that. Really! And disprove today the State Department, not the Greek Solution. The State Department says this today. These are very important, very important issues. Today we started our parliamentary day asking the National Representation and the President of Parliament in the most official way that the question of ratification of the Greek and Azerbaijan Agreements should not be put to the committees tomorrow after what has happened. The Greek Solution calls on the Government to show full support for the real ally Armenia and unambiguous condemnation, Mr Petsa, to the Azeri crimes. Unmistakable! Not as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did, which did not take a stand in favour of Armenia, but was behind a diplomatic - and I am afraid to say - a statement, because that is what you have done. The government's announcement does not represent the Greeks for the Armenians. It doesn't represent them. I hope that by the end of the parliamentary day you will take the decision not to bring the agreement to the committees tomorrow and not to justify the Greek solution. We did the self-evident thing, but we cannot at the time when the terrorists, the Turkish subordinates, are slaughtering Armenian civilians, we are talking about an agreement with the Azerbaijani people. It can't be, very simple. As far as the coronary is concerned, with thirty cases, Mr Petsa, we closed the country, we made lockdowns, we don't do four hundred. We closed the country with thirty-five. We are not in favour of Lockdown anymore. We just worked wrong then, probably it turns out, and roughly and in a hurry, as if the coronary would disappear after two months, when we knew he'd be here. That's why I'm saying it was wrong. The image we have is what I tell you is the comparison and the sense of injustice. Twelve o'clock, Saturday night, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, I was on tour in Kavala and I went out on the balcony. On the twelve and five patrols, they went through the beach of Kavala and made recommendations to get the world in - they are images of them incredible - while at the theatre of Thessaloniki, at the Theatre of Rocks, they were four thousand people in! It's the inequality that drives the world crazy. You won't win the game of communication like this, with these mistakes. I will close with this, Mr President, one and a half minutes. So I told you that we were on tour, Antonis Mylonakis was in Xanthi and Pomakohoria, I was in Drama and Kavala. Mrs Bakoyannis also went to Xanthi in those days, but not as a member of the New Democracy. And here's her mistake. He did not travel as a member of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen. He traveled as President of the Intergroup Committee of the Parliament for our Thrace. And it was a mistake that she met with a "collective", which promotes provocatively and methodically the Turkish method against Greek sovereignty. That was unacceptable. We condemn either the voluntary or the inadvertent national and institutional stumbling of Mrs Bakoyannis. As far as the occupations are concerned, because they are being slaughtered by the big parties on television channels - we are not being slaughtered because they are not calling us, if they were to call us, we may imagine, but we are not being given the opportunity to see - we have to say: even education is working. You don't have sacred and loyal. Even our children are working on them to make micropolitical and controversy. You're taking advantage of our children. So those who are in schools are fake lefters and the outsiders are fake right. You're begging our children, you're labeling them! Awesome! That's why we, the Greek Solution, say we'll never get into this conversation about children. Really! Outside the schools, outside the parties from the universities, there's no orders or nothing. Education and education are something different and the parties are something different. You're preparing party fans and executives from these ages and that's really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u137	Mrs. Michailidou, for a minute Mr. Petchas has been asked to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u138	In order not to impress what Mr Hetas said, there is no Greek government to discuss the fortification of our islands. I have said it since Friday in an interview when I asked Mr Hadinikolaou to "REAL", on Saturday in "SCAI", today in the briefing of political editors. What more do you want to say you haven't heard the government's answer? There is no Greek government, not just that, but no Greek government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u139	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u140	Mrs. Michaelidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the amendment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the bill under discussion, I would like to stress that the state wants to highlight the protection and assistance it gives to our most vulnerable citizens. That is why we tabled an amendment with two articles aimed at strengthening our most vulnerable fellow citizens both in the part of the negative effects of the pandemic - which still upset all of us - and the catastrophic floods of Janus, mostly in the region of Thessaly. The first article of the amendment we have tabled is that we are calling for the self-evident extension of housing allowances and the minimum guaranteed income for our fellow citizens in the 'January' regions affected. We understand very well and I understand it as the other ministers of government visited Carditsa in the past days that the difficulty that has come to the daily lives of both citizens and social services is very great. So that's why we don't want to trouble them any more with additional documentation. Decisions adopted for beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income and the housing allowance are hereby extended for two months. The second article concerns the programme of housing and work for the homeless. With regard to this programme, we recognise the negative impact of the krone and what we are doing is to extend for six months the existing entitlement to the housing allowance, but to the level of the housing and work programme. So, given the pandemic, we recognise the increased needs of our vulnerable fellow citizens who are homeless and what we are doing is that they continue and get the housing allowance, but at the highest level of the unemployment and housing programme, so that they continue without interruption to be in an increased supportive framework until they have been gradually moved to autonomous living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u142	Before Mr Lebanese, I will give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu for two minutes on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u143	Very soon, Mr President. First of all, Mrs Michaelidou's amendment is positive, except that there is a huge issue from the beginning of the pandemic, but now also because of the phenomena and the problems caused by Janus. There is the TEVA programme, the fund of food and material assistance to the most deprived, to our weak fellow citizens. There has been no change due to pandemic or phenomena to support more of the conflicts that are responsible for obtaining species for the affected. Even masks for the needy could have been taken and refused the Ministry to give this facilitation to practice. I think he should look into it again. I come to the amendment, for which I have taken the floor. These are two amendments concerning media.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. You will speak of the amendment. Leave Mrs. Michailidou. Speak as rapporteur for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u145	I'm done with Mrs. Michaelidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u146	Please. And fairly complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u147	I want the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u148	He is the rapporteur, Mr Kegeroglu. You are not a rapporteur. Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u149	I take my time as rapporteur, my colleague. The amendment we have tabled on the allocation of advertising expenditure does not, therefore, concern only the two million people, but it concerns the institutional process by which our modern state in 2020 will move away from these categories, from the suspicions, from the efforts on the one hand to manipulation of the instruments and all the rest that are known in public dialogue, lists and all the rest. Finally, transparency, clarity, rules. There's the rules. We're proposing to you. And we need documentation because you reject it if you reject it. And, of course, on the subject I have put to Mr Besiropoulos, I would like to draw Mr Stavoura's attention. There are very minor issues of rejection of books and business data due to the fact that two thousand in an invoice, for example, EUR 200, which is four minutes, has not been collected. And this may be a great zeal for some DUs, but it is also the case in Lamia - I know very well, Mr Simopoulos has told me - and in Heraklion. So these are matters that you need to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u150	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u151	Mr. President, you took my audience, SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u152	It's okay. It's the government here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u153	You stole it from me for Mr. Hetas to speak. And he's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u154	We'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras with an excursion - you will allow me to say this because he was amazed at me today - he has come to Parliament to lie again in order to politically speculate on the suffering of the people of Cardiff and Thessaly and all those affected by the disaster. Since the first moment - and all the members of the government have referred to it adequately - the relevant ministers have been in the affected areas, made autopsy and announced support measures. The Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, was found in the affected areas in the next few days - immediately! - and not four and a half years later, as Mr Tsipras went for reasons of a mere electoral micro-group opposition. Mr. Tsakalotos spoke of virtual reality, saying that this is what our Government presents about Greece today. The opposite is true. The virtual reality was exactly the lies Mr. Tsipras said. I am reading a specific message to you now - they are following the debate here in Parliament - from the Region of Thessaly, Mr Agathastos, which Mr Tsipras considers is not in the picture. One hundred and forty - seven machines in forty - seven positions attempted and attempted, thirteen machines, one hundred twenty - seven people from the Army, four and a half thousand meals. That's all in Karditsa. And that's all when Mr. Tsipras visited the Mouzaki. And he saw these machines working to restore the main bridge we put it into circulation in four days. So that's the difference. The Government of New Democracy, as well as the Region of Thessaly, are doing their job. Mr. Tsipras is coming, presents this virtual reality of Mr. Tsakalotou, to hang out with the two of them today, lying. But besides lying about what is happening today, he lied to us about the past. But the world, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, no longer chews hay. In the first flood in Mandra, where we had twenty-four dead, on 15-11-2017, it was assumed - as Mr Tsipras said - that projects were carried out. In the second flood, on 27-6-2018 - you can count the months - there was absolutely nothing done and so Mandra was flooded again. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] At that time, Mr. Tsipras did not think of going down to Mandra to see exactly what had happened. He just stood on the national road with his comrade, with your comrade, Ms. Durous, who obviously came to "wash" in this room today for micro-partners - probably inner-party purposes. They have not even dared to go down, where the affected ones were, because they have not dared to deal with the citizens. Just what Mr Stavros said to you, who was yesterday with the citizens, like Mr Mitsotakis and the half Ministerial Council, who went as a step in the affected areas of Karditsa. This is the difference between you and the New Democracy. That's the difference between Tsipra and Mitsotakis. For the citizens' information campaign: do you seriously think in here - apart from you, of course, I do not know if you yourself believe it - that it is not necessary at this stage of pandemic? The information campaign in the first wave of the pandemic, as it proved to be admitted by your own MPs, saved real lives. Do you disagree? Don't you really consider it necessary today? You don't want to save human lives again, as a responsible state has to do? It is necessary to inform ourselves, because it is necessary - as much as you are trying to speculate on this - self-protecting, but also respecting the measures faithfully, in order to avoid the second quarantine, as the Prime Minister has said, when - and listen to this, you live in the same world as us, not in virtual reality - 20% of our citizens, one in our five fellow citizens, does not believe that a mask needs to be used, does not believe that measures are needed. Of course - and everyone understands that, except Mr Tsipras - it does not in any way mean that the state is renounced its responsibility. And we all have to recognise the Prime Minister of the country and that government, that they really are not afraid to assume their responsibilities at all. Clearly, the state has its own responsibility, but we all have a responsibility. As the Minister responsible, Mr Petsas, has also made clear, the new information campaign will only include national television stations and the sum we are discussing and for which Mr Tsipras has come to Parliament today, it concerns two million euros with full transparency and control procedures, as he has told you. For the funny reason, Mr Tsipras' ingenuity is now with the announcement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr Mitsotakis has electionally highlighted the flaws of the Prespecies Agreement and called on you, when, unfortunately, you were a majority, not to vote on it. After the vote, it is the responsibility of our country and our government to implement it. We, unlike you, honour the country's signatures, honour the continuity of the country. But do you realize that, at last, your Chief of Staff and not the President of the 15th. Let us stop interpreting foreign policy in terms of rehab and let it finally be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. I understand it's difficult, but he has to do it - you tell him - for the good of the place. He criticised, as Mr Tsakalotos did in an effort to find themselves at the same time and not to fight for the small power of your party, for health. Mr. Stakoras told you very much about the ICUs. I won't tell you. But let's see, in general, what you delivered in 2019: One in two hospitals had no electronic file on the patient. One in two hospitals reported that there are inoperative equipment. Eight out of ten hospitals found that clinical pathology was inadequate. Nine out of ten hospitals found that clinical surgery and diagnostic and laboratory staff were inadequate. Four out of ten hospitals said it was not possible to draw up a safe on-call program. One in two hospitals had no screening system in the emergency department. Four out of ten hospitals said there was a problem with patient safety, as there was no report from the Committee on Infections. This is the health situation you have delivered, and if you are happy about it, and you threaten us that you want to come back to power, as Mr Tsakalotos said directly, then the Greek people give you their laughter and we expect you to be involved at any time. Of course, I did not see Mr Tsipras pressing on the pineapple of his inner-party opponent. He ran away as soon as he spoke and didn't talk to us about elections, he didn't tell us about a possible better government that he could do again. With regard to the demilitarisation of the islands, I have chosen to respond to this, although Mr Petsas has covered it before the government's announcements, because it is a serious issue and it is good that everyone is in this Chamber, whatever party they come from, to watch in this particular case what the Turkish National Security Council has said about the demilitarisation of the islands, but not to adopt them and, of course, not to repeat them for propaganda and communication reasons, which will return to our country. So this announcement by the Turks has no effect on international law. Initially Turkey is not a Contracting Party to the Paris Agreement on Dodecanese. Therefore, the convention for Turkey is in the terms of lawyers inter alios acta and therefore does not have the right to invoke it. At the same time, on the basis of Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, each country reserves the right to legal defence. The invasion of the Turks in 1974 in Cyprus, the establishment of the fourth army in Izmir, the casus belli of the Turkish National Assembly are actions that call for the manning of our islands against Turkish provocation. This is Greece's position. We do not need to repeat it all the time, but it must be heard in the House today, after having heard what has been said by my colleague. The only thing that Greece and Turkey are discussing is the definition of the continental continental shelf and the EEZ. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to get far because the time goes by and we have to give the Step and the rest of our fellow Members, citizens demand from us, from all civil servants, in front of the big national issues, public health issues and natural disasters that we show national consensus, consensus and unity. The fertile opposition, whenever you do, we want it, we want it, because it is necessary for the proper functioning of our democracy. As we have shown since the beginning of the pandemic, we have not even hesitated at any time to adopt good proposals from the opposition and to accept its positive contribution, when and wherever there was. But you do not need, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to be miserable and to try to speculate politically on the pain of our citizens, our fellow citizens. Even at the last hour, change rota, we all come to face together, as exemplarily we did it in the first wave of pandemic, and the second and to face all the difficult challenges of our times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u156	Thank you. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we in Mera25, as you all know in this House, did not hand over to the Government of New Democracy any Eyes, we did not hand over to the Government of New Democracy eighteen thousand doctors less than our national health system needs to operate, we did not hand over to the Government of New Democracy a education system of twenty-five thousand less educators than is needed to act hypocritically. As you well know, we in Mera25 have no participation in any of this. What's the interesting thing? Interestingly, along with us and the rest of the Greek people, even if it is the voter of all the other parties except us, it also did not hand over to the present government, as it did in the previous government, as it said about the difficulties it has with what it has received, all these problems. And finally I want to tell you from this step forward that it is time to start answering as a government responsible for the administration of fifteen months of our country at last some time to the Greek people. It's so easy every time to look at the previous government and say, "What did you do? You have done the same and worse." You know what? I don't care at all what the previous government did. I didn't vote for it. Also, all your voters are not at all interested in the works and days of the previous government. They did not vote for you, they voted for you. Also, all the citizens of this country, regardless of what they voted for or if they did not vote at all, have the right to answers whenever they have died. Here too, because we often forget it in this Chamber, in what happened last week, ladies and gentlemen, we have dead. And not to hear again from the New Democracy - not from you, Mr Levane - we heard from the other parliamentary representative last week, on the occasion of a similar bill, that there is a great deal of bankruptcy without bodies. Because that is what let me say - I imagine it was an instant mistake - it is an appalling impotence and an insult to the memory of the three hundred seventy-seven to last night of our fellow people who died of a coronary in this country. There are bodies, that's why there's bankruptology. So the time has come, ladies and gentlemen, but above all, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, answer not to SYRIZA who suits you, not to PASOK, who might have been attracted to you for many years, but to the Greek people and should have answered him not with the argument 'OK we did it, but what have you done?' because this argument is cheap and easy. It is one of the few times when in Mera25 we thought that at last a draft law which comes under the special urgency procedure is indeed urgent. Of course, we reasonably had our questions how suddenly you were in pain with these affected people - the ordinary people I mean - because so far you have not shown the same sensitivity to our professionally affected fellow humans who have been hurt by the coronary all this time of pandemic. And you know who I mean well. I mean all the employees in tourism, all the workers in the arts, small and large businesses, but we mean the Mera25 and all the small and medium-sized businessmen in this country, our country. Eight months now, all those who I have said are telling them your private media is very well and they are not missing anything at all, because after the first brave eight-cost they have received, they are inextricably continuing to receive the extraordinary financial support of 534 euros every month. So everything okay? Yeah, except for a small, so small problem. A huge proportion of these people, as you all know, most of the half, after the first eight hundred euros, never saw a single minute entering their deposit from this money of the state. Many tens of thousands, of course - to say this too - did not see this first eight, because, as you remember, they were workers in a strange magical way completely invisible to all our systems. Nobody saw them. How have these people worked all these years? These wonderful, of course, and independent private media, which I am passing away, seem to have been informed that two new parties in the Greek Parliament have entered in to show us when and when they are doing what they are doing, are also systematically informing the small and medium-sized businessmen in our country, who have been in the House of Greeks for four months, I remind you, necessarily zero, since the state had been shut down and without asking them their businesses, that all of them are also very well and that, like their employees in this way, thanks to the help of our Government, they are missing nothing! There was, of course, a small problem in this case. What? That all the debts that have taken place in this period, as well as all the loans and liabilities that have not served... Why? Why were they poor payers? No, like everyone who confesss in this Chamber, we confess it. Because of the pandemic, not all these debts and debts have been paid by forced Lockdown. They have not been "tired" by your Government, as you should have done and will eventually come to them all the debts and all these things in the coming or less near, but in any case in the future, as Mr Stagioras says, and of course before they recover to normal levels, if ever, so that you govern this country, there is a little chance that their turnover will recover. This fact all the small and medium-sized businessmen in our country know that, whatever your channels tell them. Do you know why? Because they feel it every day like a loop that tightens their throats, just like a loop, they're beginning to feel your returnable advances that, as the word says, should be returned and even incubated. Now, I hear you have started talking about interest-free advances, or even - and I hope - and I hope you will - and about amounts that will be less than what they will get at the start. It's a blessing, though. You haven't. Until now, whoever makes the mistake - most of them don't get your return deposit, will come to him next March with all the bills, HICPIA, interest on loans, with the taxes on his business that he never opened this year. When in the end, ladies and gentlemen, you understand that all these above-mentioned 'haircuts' that we are urgently asking you are not ruffles, it is not the case and the only way we have as a coordinate state to limit the doom of the packages that you already know well that we are, very fearful, becoming obsessed, consisting from the bottom and from the bottom of our national bankruptcy, as from March, we have already informed you that it will be too late. Do something. Throw some money. Mr Stavros repeated this with vigilance about an hour ago - I was here and I heard it - 'We are the wise men of the children who keep the money for the end'. Our leader, our party's secretary Yiannis Varoufakis, who happens to be one of the very important economists in this world, at least in the field of macro-economics, which is precisely the area that concerns the models of states, i.e. big models, that in these cases, as in the case of lockdown that paralysed everything for three months, the only way is one and the global example exists. They do so completely opposite ideologically by us leaders. Mr Trump does so, it is the European leaders who have their minds on their heads. It's about throwing infinite money, as much money as you have, the first time the market needs it. Why? Because if you don't shoot them in the first week, the second you need twice as much, the third you need ten times, at the end of the month you need hundreds of times. Why? Because there is geometric progress in the destruction, the padlocks and the collapse of everything. With this life and your state and with these examples of writing as a government in the last 15 months, we have gained a tendency to wonder every time you do something that seems first and foremost friendly to our people, in case the "fall" is hiding someone again. In today's case, unfortunately, it hides, ladies and gentlemen, four to five and, in our view, quite spacious. 'Lakkos' first: Article 1 grants financial assistance to natural persons and 8,000 euros to legal persons affected by the buildings. That's a fine measure, you'll tell me. Of course, I would also agree, if the 'a joyful measure' were not accompanied by the words 'on condition that it was in operation on this day and also subject to the exception of receiving this financial support from all owners of empty abandoned or incomplete dwellings and professional premises'. Let's just say it so everyone who's listening to us can figure it out. If, in other words, the home or business space built by a human being suffered even total destruction, this man will not be supported by the state or by a euro. I really don't understand anything. I'm a congressman and I don't understand anything. A restaurant or someone who has a shopping store in Carditsa why is he entitled to more than one of his colleagues whose business has been padded after the eleven years of your memoirs and is now closed to your support if his former commercial roof has been partially or completely destroyed? Can't you see the absurdity, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Do you not understand that by definition it is the same hurt someone whose house was destroyed, whether this was incomplete or finished? It is impossible - it is not excluded, is it, as a rule - that the bankrupt businessman in his closed business, who was destroyed, would keep her former equipment in the hope that at some point she could resold him to make a part of the mess? No way. It's a rule, you know, but you don't compensate him if, along with his warehouse or his old company or craftsman, his equipment is gone. With Article 5 and, as we know from last March, the pretext of safeguarding jobs in the affected areas, this time you predict that enterprises, private sector employers in the specific regions affected by the 'January', may suspend contracts of employment of part or all of their employees until the damage has been recovered, etc. Workers whose contract of employment is suspended in accordance with this - says the bill you bring - are beneficiaries of exceptional financial aid as compensation for a specific purpose of EUR 534. We think, then, that for the next three months private media will systematically assure them that they receive EUR 534 every month and are therefore very well and, as you know, they are not missing anything, but they will be lacking, as if they were the previous people affected by COVID -19, a very small percentage will actually receive this very small allowance. Don't tell you the joke about Hodja's donkey. You all know that. Once your mass intelligence has taught us not to eat, we're going to die. I am going to go through the third 'alakko', which is 'lakuves'. It is about not recruiting people like a serious country for disasters, while disasters come every week now. I'm going to the fourth pit that's very serious. It is the pit with Article 7 that extends the rate reduction for specific goods and services. At first it sounds good and reasonable enough, until one reads what the particular goods are and in there finds - and sees it as a joke - what else? The movie tickets, the theatre tickets and the concert tickets. But you've banned them. Haven't you gotten it? You have no idea you've forbidden the concerts, the theatres and the movies? I inform you that I am not in the government that five days have been banned, at least for large urban centres. The large 'packs' are the fifth and sixth. Article 8 provides for an increased discount. What does that mean? Exemption from purely Greek for advertising expenses of businesses during the twenty and twenty-two years. It is clear that it is a provision - a gift to your friends, the ones I mentioned so long, the great advertised businessmen, but especially your good friends, the television channels. It is not only enough that you do this, but also with Article 10, that is, in this case, breaking your record in the previous coronary bill, bringing in a bill two articles - a gift for parasitic oligarchs - canalarchs. And I shall end immediately with the following words: Objections of seriousness, ladies and gentlemen, we have other articles in this draft law that I have not said. But the important thing is not that. The important thing is the double face of Janus, the ancient Roman god who gave his name to the tragic meteorological phenomenon that ruined our fellow people's lives, but who could very well lend that same name and today's bill, because it is two-faced, as systematicly two-faced, is the governance of the country by you who have not been content with your government for fifteen months stealing from our people what is left, but enthusiastically and provocably dares to name and present legislatively this immoral motto as help, provision, mind and care. However, no matter how many gifts you make to the scavengers of consciences and minds of your parasitic little friends and as many times as they return you the service by lying to us and assureing us that we are all very well and we are absolutely not missing anything, your plan will ultimately not pass. Do you know why he won't pass? Because we have been missing too much for many years, because we lack our own life and because you are the ones who are fully responsible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u158	Mrs. Jackri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, I have said many times in this Chamber that given the great threat of the coronary, which society and science in the end will win, the country is being threatened much more than the most dangerous, outside medical research and therefore out of therapy, cynovirus. I have to acknowledge to the Prime Minister that he has a unique gift to manage difficult situations in such a way that he can turn them into political, economic and social disasters due to the proverbial inability of his Government to prevent and deal with timely phenomena that could have a much smaller extent and a much smaller impact on citizens' lives. It was neither metaphysical nor disasters in Evia nor disasters in Karditsa. Because in Evia, which you have completely disappeared from the public debate, catastrophic fires had taken place. The floods caused are due precisely to the fact that no one has removed the logs and no one has thought, has provoked an elementary anti-military armour. Today, even in Evia, we had the unprecedented phenomenon of civil protection that had been notified days of the upcoming phenomenon, not to use 112 to inform the citizens, and indeed, the responsible Minister should then inform us that if he used it, we would have a hundred deaths. The result is that today, forty days later, local society is experiencing an unprecedented abandonment, an unbelievable government cynicism in the matter of the compensation and restoration of property and, ultimately, in an hour's short distance from Athens, a huge day-to-day, economic and social disaster. On the issue of Karditsa and the Mediterranean Cyclone 'Janus', the government had a unique ally, meteorology, which was supposed to be closely following the phenomenon, and had identified its very low speed of movement and had, in any case, the government all year round to mobilise its technical and human potential, to assist a large city and large productive villages of the Thessaloniki campus in order to limit the extent of the disaster and to avoid the movement of vehicles at dangerous points, thereby mourning dead not for a phenomenon that broke out within a few minutes or an hour, but for something known for an entire week. And now you come to tell us, after the Prime Minister visited the region for four days, that you are giving some help. And, of course, it goes beyond me the fact that the people there have now become the recipients of payment orders or other coercive acts, and most of all this is affecting the government, since Mr Tsiaras, the Minister for Justice, is from there. I would like to say, however, in the new dangerous form of government of the Prime Minister, who is then inclined to express his grief and as the people say "to take the obligation off" with the protesting people excluded, surrounded by hundreds of policemen and a few dozen fans and benefiting from the State Staff, so that the 20:00 cards can show the well directed cradle that those who wish to create Mr Mitsotakis' place. Of course, all this with the Greek taxpayer's money and the financing of the media. We are, unfortunately, moving from the ribbon to the camera's governance. The visits of the Prime Minister and the videos that Greek citizens see in the 20:00 cards are paid for advertising by the State with the Greek taxpayer's money and under the pretext of pandemics. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been running for a year and a half. You have absolutely nothing to show. However, the effectiveness of the Staff State when it comes to direct assignments of tens of millions to continents is amazing, while at the same time, when you are going to help the Greek society and directly benefit the citizens affected by the pandemic, you are characterized by zero efficiency, because obviously your motives are not consistent with the service of the public purpose, but with the creation everywhere, at all levels of the Greek economy, mechanisms that are working for your own micropolitical goals. You are preparing to renew the mediation lease, unregulated to vote for your in-white authorization, to redistribute the clothes of the national trust, which we inherited from you, on new terms of society. Our President Alexis Tsipras rightly pointed out that it is a political deception to say that you have given EUR 24.6 billion to deal with the consequences of the coronary, while you have only given EUR 4.6 billion. At the same time as tens of hundreds of free professionals have not received the elementary allowance of EUR 800 in March and are still receiving assurances that the platform of objections from AIA will be opened. And you are asking us to vote for your right to transfer the unpaid and unpaid rights of the world of work to the hired providers of your communication immunity to the state. This is no longer a failure, but a premeditated political, social crime, because the Social Messages Act provides for their free transmission and you know it and you have voted for it and you are being circumvented every day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want you to know that no matter how many police measures you take, no matter how much theatrical theatre performances and if you direct with kiosks and mini-markets and other graphics, to earn time simply because you are unable to provide solutions, you have created so many problems that you yourself will not be able to deal with them, as many paid entries of the state of service as you do. You deal with the kiosks and seventeen-year-olds instead of doubling and tripling public transport routes. You are concerned with the self-evident use of the mask, at the same time that the Minister in question does not respect even the minimum measures which require third parties to comply with the threat of sanctions. And you have not realised that it is impossible to make fun of the young people of our country, the most educated generation of our country with such terrain. And you have not realised that over three hundred schools are under arrest, because students refuse to stack every twenty-five and every twenty-seven in each section and you are responsible for disrespecting the authority of the institutions. At the same time, as you stack every thirty students in classes, you advance the individual responsibility of the primary school children towards their grandfather and grandparents, when your political responsibility as a responsible has been exhausted to the direct assignment of the masqueraders, the masquerading market and the sums of other direct assignments. Ladies and gentlemen, of course you have the parliamentary power to pass all these eunuchs and awkwards that you are bringing here today as a cover and a policy to disorientate the new wave of immunization. But you come and you talk about reducing taxes on advertising and tax exemptions to the big...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u160	My colleague, you've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Mr President. When you do not bring the slightest measure of aid to small and very small enterprises, which are not advertised, we have heard nothing say about these businesses, that you are, for example, increasing depreciation or reducing tax and insurance obligations for a year in order to alleviate them and insist, of course, that you do not adopt Alexis Tsipras' proposal to make advance payments for small and medium-sized enterprises non-repayable. My negative vote is more than obvious, because, as I said, you have done all this to renew your mediation leases. But whatever you do, it arrives sooner, perhaps, than you believed, when the way you handle the economy and the problems of Greek citizens will also lead you to an insurmountable political deadlock, so there will be no significance for this public spending on leases and the declaration of 7 July as a national day of political deception by a group of political fraudsters will become a reality in public consciousness. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u162	Mrs. Fotou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think you should seriously think that the bill is based deliberately - and I mean it - on a double mistake. What's the double mistake? First, it treats 'January' as normal theory and secondly, considers that theory comes in a period of normality. This double mistake leads to measures that are common, monsieur. That's why people are not relieved, that's why the wrath is swelling, no matter how much you want to hear it. The Jan himself is a follower of a new reality that we lived in Mandra and Matti, namely the phenomena of climate change. Speed, intensity, great range, huge size of destruction, multiple force from what we used to be until 2017. You, however, are staying in 2017, strengthening the EUR 5 000 per housing and EUR 8 000 per company, which had been established by v. SYRIZA's 4581/2017. So what was to be done? In Articles 1 and 2, provide for specific targeted aid. There are areas that have changed form. Everyone says that. This new person was not yet registered as being due by the regions. Instead, we see in the channels the district manager Thessaly congratulates the district manager at Attica for his assistance as a sign of the highest solidarity. Are you serious? The "January" comes through the second wave of the pandemic and finds people and businesses, agricultural production and livestock production within the limits of their resilience. The workers in the regions affected receive the aid of EUR 534 by suspending their employment contract for three months, as you say, without any support from the bill to keep the company's jobs. But without the replacement of 100% of their wages, as we have said many times, the local market is falling apart, as is the case with households. I'll give you an example. Even if a household with a worker is suspended for three months. He had a wage and a net revenue of 1,000 euros. He'll take half. That means in three months it will get 1,500 euros less. So when he gets the 5,000 amplification, what did that man get? He took 3,500 euros, first. So leave those magnificences you've been saying for so long. The remaining articles of the bill deal with pandemic and COVID -19 in the well-known, incomplete, fragmented and inadequate way for many and vulnerable, with gifts to large businesses and channels for the chosen ones, such as the deduction in fact of advertising expenses from the gross revenues of a company. I mean, if you spent 1 million, I'll count on your expenses of 2 million this year. Is that serious? Is that a good thing? Also, what you're doing about the channels that you've excluded from paying to the public their debts due to krone - or not? - Do you now give them extra money? Listen. But measure the size of hypocrisy when you say you are helping vulnerable people, Minister. The Undersecretary was here, but of course, until we talk about it one hour and she left, and I'd like her to hear it. There is a huge amount of hypocrisy when it says that with the amendment to Articles 1 and 2 it helps vulnerable people. First, let's say one thing. Are you all right with the minimum guaranteed income in the pandemic state? Are you all right with the 200 euros for this man to live? Is it not a shame to say that you extended this for twelve months throughout the country? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But the second and worst is this. What does it say about the homeless who are in the Housing and Work programme, which we did in 2017, and I know it from the outside and inconveniences? We put four hundred families in, and it cost $5 million. What does this program say? He says for anyone who comes in there that we pay him the rent in the house he goes, the water, the electricity, etc., that we give him more about his operating expenses, and we give him a job allowance, because where we get him, we pay the employer. What came to us today? He told us that anyone who responds from the program today, with coronary conditions, to the homeless who will endure the program made it terrible to pay them rent! I mean, I don't know what to say. Could you not extend the program for twelve months to the homeless? I want to ask a question. Until when will every baby abandoned in this country, on the Mars Field, etc., inform public opinion about NGO rather than Ms. Michailidou's ministry about what will happen to the baby? Until when is this going to happen? In addition to the unaccompanied, did she lose child protection? I'm done. We believe that the "Jan" proved the non-existence of the Perfect State. They have all understood that it was not only to bring Mr. Mitsotakis together the guilty of everything, as we said at the outset, but also to promote charitable provisions in "the nobles" and to intervene in legislation for direct assignments, such as masks - parachutes, lists, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u164	Mrs. Fotou, you're in seven minutes. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u165	I can see that. I'm done. You have the opportunity to do what we have told you with three billion permanent measures and eight and a half additional measures to respond to the problems of the people at the moment. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u166	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u167	So you have the possibility of financing all these measures from the current NSRF, at an even zero cost in the public funds. You do not do this for specific reasons, and of course we will not help them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to keep the time, because at the moment we have another thirty-three speakers. I'm telling you, to see where we are. Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u169	I shall try, Mr President, to be as brief as possible. I will make a few remarks on the unbelievable things that have been heard. The first is that it seems that the MPs, the ministers and, above all, the Prime Minister, have acquired a familiarity with a lie they are saying, which they now believe and carry at a time. We have heard about 3.5% of primary surpluses. We forgot they were signed for 4.5% and 4.6%. We heard about some unnecessary memorial, like the first two were useful. We have not heard about the country's destruction, about who is responsible for it, because we have entered into all this. That's what we have to talk about, because every time they say the same thing. That's the first. Secondly, there is no discretion to realize how some things anger citizens. Don't tell me what society says again, like you speak on behalf of the whole society. Even your golf clubs to take, at least half society doesn't believe you. Don't tell me what SYRIZA would do. The third point was made by Eukleidis Tsakalots. This is where I'll use Proust. He answered, as someone who's pretending to understand that they're in charge of something else and not what they're actually in charge of. That's how they go and the numbers come with the teachers and the health workers. Just two words, because I want to be as brief as possible. Once again, the Pecha list, again the media, of course, only national range, because, as far as we're concerned, regionals don't make the job very good. Overcompensation in large businesses is in the context that would be and if there were no pandemic and natural catastrophe together, farmers and farmers are going. There are several things, but I would like to say that this mismanagement, the dismantling of public money continuously by direct assignments, etc., the inability of this Service State, your ideas cannot be covered with propaganda by means, it has close legs, because the real life will come and it will show what the truth is. In any case, I should like to address one amendment that we have tabled, because this is the case. In recent years the entire technical world and the owners have been living an insanity. When I say technical world, I talk about chambers throughout the country and central, where, as you know, it is not controlled by SYRIZA, it does not have a majority, but also by the Association of Architects, the SADAS, by many associations and citizens, who say what? Prolongation to the normalization of the arbitrary. An extension, which the Minister himself gave in June invoking the pandemic, which does not recognize today that pandemic exists, does not understand that public services operate or operate seriously, that the website of the Technical Chamber is constantly falling due to a burden and of course households have increased obligations, HISPIA, Land register etc. In fact, we cannot understand the denial of Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Economou. They want to play reformers? A reform, however, so that it can complete and operate inclusive and unjustices want its time. Let us make it clear that we are not in favour of unlimited extensions. Obviously, it's a matter of institutional order. This circle has to be stopped. In order to do so, however, the state must ensure it and keep it first. In summary, the public administration is downstream. Construction services are very difficult to serve. Many towns fail to provide the evidence. The electronic platform's dropping all the time. Commissions granting approvals, whether they do not meet or take a long time. In archaeological sites and historical sites, an opinion from the local archaeological board and the KESA is required with huge delays, due to volume and non-conferences. Aerial photographs 2011 do not exist. The forest maps have not been booked. There are thousands of cases pending in opposition committees. There's too big a gap for arbitrary class 5. There is a levelling-up and unequal treatment, regardless of whether they have building permits or not. The electronic ID card has not yet been completed, resulting in the freezing of all operations in the event of the immediate expiry of the time limit for the arbitrary category 5. Of course, the EVO programme is also at stake. Here, I shall refer a little to western Macedonia, which - as I have said - has an extra bonus due to liberation. People can't do it. As soon as the first inspection takes place, they realize that something needs to be settled. But they lose 20% if the deadline is now over. It's a stimulus even for it. Of course, we're talking about natural disasters. I have not seen anyone take care of at least the affected areas. Listen a little. It cannot be arbitraryly treated as a fee to the public finances by fast track submission procedures. Because that's what Mr. Economou said. It also devaluates the work of engineers, after calling on them to become tax collectors, and we need to know that engineers, among others, are responsible for protecting the structured environment. And really, Mr. Economou isn't here. However, I would like to address him and remind him of his academic quality. The Greek engineers are doing their job right. On whether a property falls within a category 5, it also wants technical control and autopsy and a search for documents so that the engineer concludes that arbitraryness belongs to this category and then process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We, Minister, ask that you accept the amendment we tabled and extend the deadline until 15 January 2021, taking into account the commitment of the Technical Chamber for the preparation of the electronic identity building by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, a colleague asked me to precede. I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u172	Good. Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand I would like to thank Mr Loverdos for his understanding, but on the other hand, to highlight the deterioration in the role of Members in the parliamentary procedure, Mr President. For the past two and a half hours, the flow of Members who are to speak has stopped. Ministers, Parliamentary Representatives. Parliamentary representatives could speak after two, three Members, so that the Members' flow would also exist. In any case, however, we are discussing an issue that is extremely difficult. We, in fact, come from the regions that have affected us deeply. Here, I must point out that the truth is relentless. And no matter how many people try to falsify her, the one in the end will shine. And I say this because he argued that the Chief of Staff Response that the government mechanism, the ministers, the Prime Minister, was activated after his arrival at Cardica. On the 19th of the month, while the phenomenon took place on the 18th day, the very next day, Mr. Lebanon, State Secretary for the Interior, Mr. Skrekas, State Secretary for Rural Development, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr. Karayannis was in Karditsa. On the 20th of the month, the Undersecretary, Mrs. Rapthi, came. On the 21st of the month, Mr. Tsipras came. And on the 22nd month - that was the long delay - the Prime Minister came. Uh, I don't think that's a delay in dealing with an extremely unique phenomenon that hit Karditsa. In fact, he has created huge problems throughout the county. And I say 'a unique phenomenon', because according to Professor Lekka, within 15 hours in the town of Carditsa, seventy million tonnes of water fell. According to another study carried out by an excellent hydrology engineer, this phenomenon occurs in Carditsa once in five hundred years, the amount of water that fell, i.e. within fifteen hours. You understand, the intensity of the phenomenon - and I put this in the Minutes, along with a number of photographs to stay a monument to the House for the destruction suffered by Karditsa - was huge, but it was accompanied by a huge area. [[At this point, the Member, George Kotsos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It cannot be compared with the phenomenon either with Mandra or with the Eye that there phenomena were limited to small areas. Here, we're talking about an entire county. Mostly, we're also talking about the county capital. The damage suffered by homes, livestock, farms and businesses is truly dramatic. The productive tissue of Karditsa is at risk of collapse. And I say this because as a rural prefecture Carditsa is very much supported by agricultural farming, by agricultural production. And now that it was the harvest season for our farmers, the cotton growers, that disaster came to zero their income. And you know, cotton culture is Carditsa's financial donor. At the same time, because the city of Carditsa was also affected by the whole business world. So, then, a universal damage in a county, you understand what a huge problem it creates in the region. A special assistance programme for Cardiffa is therefore needed to support the entire productive sector in order to relaunch economic activity in our prefecture. A special aid programme based on three axes is required. The first axis will be the support of the primary sector, which is the growth engine of the prefecture of Karditsa. The second axis will have to do with supporting entrepreneurship. The third axis will have to do with infrastructure support, because infrastructure damage is also incalculable. Hundreds of miles of road have been destroyed. A lot of bridges have been cut off, especially in the mountains, but too many infrastructures do not exist. And you understand that this is all an unprecedented phenomenon. Was there a direct reaction? Of course, it was directly from the Prime Minister and the Ministers. And above all for us who were Mayors and we know what happened other times, regarding the support of the state's central administration to self-government, it was unprecedented that the immediateity of depositing the money that has to do with the damages and the social support that has already been submitted to the municipalities. In fact, I would say that, apart from the speed that has so far been shown in the communication of measures, and at the same time in the legislative initiative, the government will support the affected areas, where we are to judge, it will also be the directness, the speed at which the money will reach the people affected. I have two or three proposals here to make. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, 50% of the compensation must be paid to our farmers for the damages they have suffered and then, on average, over the last three years, 100% of the damage has been covered. As far as businesses are concerned, the grant should reach 70%, and I would even suggest that there should be a provision for interest-free loan from the Deposit and Loan Fund through the Cardiff Cooperative Bank, so that 100% of the companies can be compensated to reinstate their activity and when they do well to get the subsidy, to amortise the part of the grant-related loan and the remaining five-year interest-free loan. Of course, in this process, I should like to note that the fact that in many underground areas, but also in auxiliaries, there were also household appliances and burners and we need to see the possibility of compensation there too. In conclusion, what I would like to point out is that, on the question of pupils, there must also be a corresponding provision in the same way as in the Matty. I have told the Minister for Education that there would be a special import rate for the flooding students in higher education institutions. For the record, I will submit to the minutes and the document of the Carditsa Chamber of Deputies which highlights a number of measures to support the floods, businesses and the inhabitants of the region. [[At this point, the Member, George Kotsos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To conclude, I would like to point out the speed with which the government reacted by bringing the amendment to the irresponsibility of the first instalment of money taken by the flooders, and that is because the phenomenon has been presented to the flooders and the banks have been keeping the instalments of loans from these EUR 600. I therefore believe that the government has reacted immediately, has reacted with strong measures. So we must continue to be able to regain the lost ground, but above all to look at the future with optimism in Karditsa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the new republics has now spoken, so that there is no question that I am speaking to one or the other. With seven and eight minutes the process will end after seven hours. They are still thirty speakers, they are the rapporteurs, they are the Minister and the well-known ones in plenary, here you are, you are not strangers. So after we've closed this circle, please be within your time. Now Mr Loverdos has the floor, who is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I am obliged to make a reference to the issue raised by the Chief of Staff Response on the matter with Northern Macedonia. Because we were in this Chamber when the Prespecies Agreement had come for ratification, we remember very well what was being said. Mr Lebanese quite rightly spoke about the continuity of the Greek state, there is no doubt at all. It is right, too, that Mr Mitsotakis has never said as Chief of State at the time that he will abolish the agreement. That's right. But I'll tell you what's wrong. Wrong, first of all, is that you raised the world and I'm the one who's been against the agreement with arguments, but without taking advantage of it. The Change Movement, Ms. Gennimata, me personally and all of our colleagues have never played on this issue. Secondly, he had promised then that when he became a government, he would block the progress of the Northern Macedonia route to the European Union, after NATO had closed down as a matter of fact. It is time for February - March 2020 when the start of the accession negotiations in Northern Macedonia and Albania was speeding up, not to make use of the right time for Albania, the inadmissible behaviour of Prime Minister Rama, but also for northern Macedonia, because the fine letters of the agreement have not yet been checked whether they are being implemented. This is not the time, but when the three conventions come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security, we will deal with this. Does the agreed partner in the agreement comply with its commitments? It's not the time today. There are problems there. But I don't see there being trustworthy too. On the contrary, you create a problem for yourself by describing this agreement as a historic one. Short memory is unacceptable, I stress it and I underline it. The second foreign policy issue I would like to raise as a Parliamentary representative is related to Cyprus, not to the Cyprus issue, but to Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, from the letter of Bavlut Tsavosoglou to "Kathemerini" 15 days ago, the most important issue was of course their rescheduling and acceptance that the issues under discussion with Greece concern maritime zones. This is a victory for the country. Artificially beyond the two continental and EEZ themes are the question of the utilization of the rich production regions in favour of the occupied. In other words, they are trying to get Cyprus out like us as Greeks, our fellow Greeks, we appreciate and understand and create problems either in our relations with Cyprus and Cyprus, or in our dialogue with Cyprus. On Thursday when we had a joint meeting of the Committees on Foreign Affairs of Greece and Cyprus and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security of Greece and Cyprus, I raised this issue as I put it to you here. This morning, as a party, we have issued a statement with these questions. What do you think of this? How do you justify that in his speech to the United Nations the Prime Minister did not make any mention of these matters? Is that a tactic? Is it a strategy? Or is it a retreat from fixed positions of Greece and Cyprus? The questions are pending and they are looking for an answer. And as long as it's unfinished, the more we put it in the National Representation when we talk about it. Now, in relation to the draft law, I really think it is a comedian when a government takes an economic measure to strengthen a person, a family, a company that was hit by a natural disaster, say, ‘How much did it give? So much. Put more of it or put more of it in it." I consider it a comedy and a picture of cheap opposition. That is why we have said yes to the specific financial aid, not to the auction that is unacceptable and mocking the bidder. But we doubt the speed of procedures when the world is really flooded in Karditsa. Good speeches to support the citizens where they were affected. The draft law makes specific reference to areas. That's right, Kegeroglu said: Why isn't Elias in? The region of Elijah that hurt her, and I had from the report the image of the destruction there. Why isn't he in there? Why is the areas of Heraklion, which also the report is that they have suffered problems, are they not in it? I do not make the mistake of saying that you should put all of Greece in a bid, by buying votes against each other, but I say that for two areas where all citizens have heard that they have been affected. One area, that particular one, I know it very well. Secondly, we add where you rightly say that in the risk assessment committees, people belonging to the private sector will also be used. They are not just civil servants or public sector employees. Right, but as Vassilis Kegeroglu said, who will be? We say only the experts from the Chambers' directories. Don't get involved in customer relations and threatened corruption. Now, I wanted to take the floor after Mr. Chiara. Of course, not so much the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, as the structure of the debates, the debate here, when more than one minister announces amendments or argues in favour of provisions of their own which are in the draft laws. The 'one Minister behind each other', which we have been used to for decades, is not right, because questions are raised about a minister who leaves after buying. So we can't talk. So now, without the Minister of Justice being here, I will ask the questions I have. The question concerning Karditsa, which I raised first today, that this morning was served by court-in-laws of extrajudicial letters or clerks, was answered by Mr Stakoura in the sense that the law, which in his article today as a tenth category of measures, is to be stopped. Yeah, but that doesn't mean that the public that's really in the clashes couldn't stop any such operation. 'Cause just so you can imagine drowning and indulge in an out-of-court case, so you can settle your obligation. In that the Minister for Justice had no answer, he misled it. As also, he used the argument of climate change that is right, but it was like listening to Mrs Durou, it was the same. We must also discuss this in order to take measures as a National Representation, preventing everything that is anticipated - obviously not everything is prevented in natural disasters, especially in water - and more when a fatal incident arises from disasters, we must say 'climate change'. That sounds like an excuse, a cheap one, and the adversary is easy, 'but what are you saying?' These arguments should be avoided, they do not help the one who articulates them. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it concerns opposition - not with the same proof of responsibility from its parties - the question of media funding for information on COVID -19. The first party to put forward, without the government's initiative on this matter, was ours, Mrs Gennamata, who spoke of a wide-ranging communication campaign on mask issues, the use of a mask. He put it in September with the start of the school year and the vulnerabilities that were created at that time, that is, a few days ago. We have no objection to this, we have no objection to communication, and we know very well - and I know it personally in so many times that I have been Minister - that when you rely on the provisions of the law and the practice of the PSE, advertising is done in time that no one sees it. I agree, Mrs. Vulture, absolutely. I've lived through it waiting as Minister to see my campaign and see it at 1,000 minutes at night. I've lived it, yes. So, that's right. But what do you mind accepting our amendment to establish criteria? Someone will tell me, but two million euros is. First of all, it is not very small, but to accept it, is it not a giant one, but will we not have any problems again? Are we done with COVID -19? That's how far he was? Are you saying that again, like you said in summer? You were not expressly saying it, but you were implying it, leaving the country at its mercy. You were all running around without masks, giving the signal that we're done. But we weren't done. Aren't we gonna need a campaign again? Will you bring in another amendment? No criteria again? I wish nothing had happened, I wish we had finished with COVID -19 - which does not seem - but should not provide for such an event, which, although we do not want it to be a third wave - I know - do not bend the pandemic effect? Are we done with the natural disasters? We are talking about climate change here, we will always have it in front of us. What is the problem of equiping ourselves with criteria, as we say, and we have tabled an amendment, so that all these issues of communication need to be resolved from here and for the future in a firm way, in a transparent manner, and that all the amounts of grants should be posted to the 'TRAINING'? I think it is a short-sighted reason not to accept such reasonable arguments. And with these, ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing. We've been afflicted, afflicted, and mourned in Eye and Mandra, now we didn't have that kind of land, but here we were dead. The House, which is now convened under the urgency procedure, is convened to vote for relief measures and provision measures - we insist - for future negative bad times that may come, we hope not to come, but if they come, we must be equipped. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been at the very beginning of the pandemic - I would say - and since the beginning of this House it has been a really responsible attitude. We're not trying to shoot in the sky, don't pass a bird and throw it. We are aiming at the points that we must opposition against forces, knowledge, science and logic. We do not agree with those who strike what is moving, because that is not opposition. There, however, we insist on hearing, because when the opposition is heard about a proposal and the government wins - it is not just the opposition - and above all the people we are all supposed to fight for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u176	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u177	Yeah, I saw you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u178	Mr. President, let's go...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Giannoulis, I'll tell you. Parliament's Rules of Procedure say that the Parliamentary Representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u180	Mr. President, he has spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u181	Can you hear me? At the request of Mr Chakalotos, I have to accept the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Levane, will you take all the time of your dentistry or just two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u182	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u183	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Giannoulis, I'm sorry, I spoke less than twelve minutes ago. I just wanted to thank Mr Loverdos for referring to my speech and just to say that the New Democracy Government and the New Democracy when they were in the opposition never said that it would block this Treaty of Ambassadors and the accession of the Neighbourhood to the European Union. We specifically said that we would monitor the implementation of the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u185	Thirty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u186	..Thirty-three, as Mrs Vulture says, chapters of the agreement and we will check that the agreed ones are respected, and that is what we will do. As far as Cyprus is concerned, it is clear - and I would like to say this once again - that Greece, the Greek Government, always supports the Republic of Cyprus with all our forces and all our means and as the Government has already announced, we firmly support the position of Cyprus in implementing the decision of the Council of the European Union to impose targeted sanctions on Turkey's illegal activities in the EEZ of Cyprus. And that is clear, just to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u187	Thank you. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor. I hope you're in time too, so you can show the example to the rest of us because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u188	What time will it end? Your co-chairs tell us it'll be over at 6:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u189	I don't think so. There's no such prediction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u190	It's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u191	There's no such prediction. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u192	I must say, Mr President, that you are too good at massage before the speaker goes up in order to save time. Of course, I want to make a correction, dear Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. First of all, forgive me for my choice to wear blue jean today, because from what I learn there is a new dress code or an honorary comment on how the political leaders are now dressing up. I would therefore like to correct you, Mr President-in-Office. In this Step Mr. Mitsotakis had formed the word 'beto'. There's the veto. It is the exact transfer in terms of the accession process to NATO and the European Union. Also, if you are watching the internet, you should have seen a video of your colleague today's Deputy Minister of Interior with responsibility for Macedonia and Thrace, YMAT, as we say, who just yesterday, Mr Karaoglou, from the few, welcomes the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Northern Macedonia to the Balkan forum that ended yesterday and says, "I am very pleased that we are all together in NATO. I would be delighted even more when we are partners in the European Union." In this video, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, his statement is followed on 5 July 2019. Do you want me to transfer it to you? She's posted on YouTube. Mrs. Vulture can look for her on her cell phone. Theodoros Karaoglou: "Seventh veto will be raised, seventy objections will be tabled, so that they will never enter the European Union and NATO". Of course, all this is happening at the moment - I do not know if you know - that a historic agreement, such as that of the Prespecies, is accompanied by a historic smuggling. Just a few minutes ago, the Department of Foreign Affairs made a proper repetition. Excluded - this is Greece of Kyriakos Mitsotakis! - after four hours the term 'historical agreement', to become a'stability memorial'. Mercy! Mercy! Isn't there a bottom in this barrel of your hypocrisy after the noise that was created?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u193	That's a good repetition!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u194	That's a good repetition!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u195	Are you kidding?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u196	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u197	Everything's just in this country! The masks come out of diapers - bracelets, historical agreements become monuments. But, seriously, Mrs. Vulture, you have a responsibility for a country! Don't laugh! In Carditsa, you know, they don't laugh at your own poaching. They're crying in the mud! And they are neo-democrats who, when they saw Alexis Tsipras, said to him as simple, disarming and human: "Mr. Tsipras, we are right. We didn't vote for you. But, three days we are left behind in God's mercy." These are people, they're not party seats. Let's go down. We are going to the historic agreement of the Prespecies which was converted after a few hours into a monument of cooperation. I would like to remind you that it was accompanied by the greatest historical political deception of your resignation, when you humiliated, when you tolerated the molotov bombs that entered the houses of MPs in SYRIZA, when you did not say a word about all those who attacked your political opponents and when you whispered under your ear "do not worry, we will cancel it". You great honors of the country and Macedonia! And today the story has come again to punish you, because the political fraud has exceeded every precedent. I come to the other issues with an observation that I will make with great respect to Mr Loverdos. And because his Greeks are very well, I would prefer and advise you, Mr Loverdos, as much as I am in parliamentary experience, instead of a bid on the proposals - if you were referring to Civicism - to use realism and reality. It's not a policy, when you try to have an adequacy in meeting needs. And that's real.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u198	I'll give three, give four.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u199	Good! However, I will add to you other areas, because we are here on this particular subject. Halkidiki, Evia, Lagada Thessaloniki. These are also abandoned areas that have been destroyed by considerable pieces of them lately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with one last point, Mr President, for a few seconds. I won't eat you much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u200	It's not my time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u201	I shall therefore conclude with the question of education. I feel really embarrassed that today Mrs. Keramos has come into this bill - a broom, in this bill - supermarket, in this bill - club sandwich, as you say - why you are swinging our fingers of good legislature and you are giving us a resignation within the issue of legislation and legislation - only to suggest that the elections for the service councils will take place on Saturday. Bravo! It applauds your party audience! Great reform, while conspiring and concentrating twenty-five and twenty-six children in one class, while in the 25th Preschool of Thessaloniki you had infants and adolescents going eighteen steps down to the first basement to be their first contact with the public school. It is extremely important to reform Mrs Kerameo for the Saturday elections today. The truth group wanted it, your voters wanted it. But at the 29th Municipal School, Mrs. Vultusis, you have destroyed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u202	You didn't build schools!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u203	Listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u204	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u205	You destroyed sports facilities that were also a concentration area in the event of an earthquake, so you could put a container in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u206	You built schools? I don't remember!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u207	Please, Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u208	Do you have your DNA interruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u209	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u210	We didn't steal to build schools, Mrs. Vulture. Don't do that! "In the house of the hanger they don't talk about rope"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u211	Please, I can't allow what's going on! Mr. Giannoulis, please continue for a few seconds. You told me a second and you've taken a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u212	What can I do, Mr President, when I am provoked by permanent interrupters?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u213	Please, Mr. Giannoulis. You got another 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u214	All this isn't covered even if you give billions to the channels! The "Petsa papers", the "Petso trees" and all these manipulation efforts will lead you to a completely different path. If you really want this place to rectify, invest in real reforms and interventions for democracy, for parliamentarianism, for equilibrium and for equality in public debate. It's a shame today when the balance...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u215	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u216	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a shame, you should be ashamed of yourself as a journalist, Mrs. Vulture, that the balance today in the public speech is 90%...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Giannoulis, please! We'll have a personal conversation now. You have now chosen at the end to create a subject for personal confrontation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, allow me literally only two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Giannoulis, from five minutes you've reached eight!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u220	It is shameful that the balance of the public debate is 85% Ministers, Deputys and praisers of the New Democracy, and that the remaining 15% should be Civic Opposition, CINAL, Mer25 and other parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u221	Mr Giannoulis, you have two colleagues below who were former ministers to the previous government of four and a half years, and the House did exactly the same as the Rules of Procedure. I would like to believe that Mr Voutsis has stood up to the circumstances and has done what the Rules of Procedure say. That's what we do today. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u222	I didn't ask you for anything, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u224	Unfortunately, as you have seen, Mr Giannoulis, on the occasion of your own motion for a resolution and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Vulture asks for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u225	Do you know how many times you've taken me out for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u226	Obviously, I'm not ashamed of anything. It's obvious I'm not ashamed of anything. I've done my job for my country and as a journalist and as a politician, and I've never been disobeyed about what I've said or done. Also, Mr Giannoulis, I would like to remind you that this remark I made to you, while you have been ahead of me, was that five years in power you did not build schools. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u227	Well, there's no personal, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u228	So you cannot ask for something that you have not done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u229	Mrs. Vulture, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u230	And I don't understand why I'm ashamed of it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Kavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u233	Under the Rules of Procedure, it has a minute to substantiate the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u234	I find it a personal insult...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u235	Here, you have the floor to substantiate the staff, so that your Chamber and your colleagues can understand it irrational.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u236	I will need less than a minute, Mr President, because when someone scratches into the gossip and breaks, he will hear it. These heroic and mourning confessions are within the element of political fraud. I didn't personally spray Ms. Buddhism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u237	Please, both Mr. Giannoulis and Mrs. Vulture. I think it should be closed and everyone understands what happened here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like you to refer to what Mr Giannoulis said about political fraud.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u239	Please, I'm not here to judge. Look. I have also lived through memorials and tearing up memorials and I have lived through Macedonian and much more. I am not allowed to speak on these matters. But please, for all the Members who are here waiting patiently to listen to the next speakers to respect them and give the floor to Mr Athanasios Kavada from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u240	We must therefore accept that what Mr Giannoulis said does not matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u241	I'm not accepting anything, Mrs. Vulture, but there's nothing I can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u242	To be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u243	You and Mr. Giannoulis cannot monopolize the interest. How do we do it? Unfortunately, you're both TVs, but we're in this House. Please, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. The previous speaker spoke for eight and a half minutes and we did not hear a single word about the bill, we only heard a general policy. So I came today to talk about the bill. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of pandemic on economic and social life have been the norm for seven months and have been the subject of constant action. At the same time, however, there are uncertain factors, such as the "Janus" theory that hit the country ten days ago. My region, Lefkada, has escaped with the fewer losses compared to the other regions, but we have several disasters in infrastructure and great damage to private property, homes, businesses and crops. And I would like here to express my sympathy to my colleague from Kefalonia, Panayios Cappato, who complains that since the morning we hear about Carditsa and we don't hear about Kefalonia. Well, we are in all areas, Mr. Cappato, and we support all these regions affected by the 'Janue' That is why I am sure that my island and my fellow citizens will welcome them, as will everyone affected by the 'Janus' bill today. Support to those affected by extreme weather phenomena is not only limited to the financial support of 5,000 euros for each citizen and household and EUR 8 000 for each business is extended to areas such as the suspension of payment of tax debt by 18 March 2021, but also the suspension of auctions and forced measures for one year. In addition, firms in affected areas may suspend contracts of employment of their employees for up to three months. This is aimed at ensuring jobs and facilitating businesses. Especially for my island, the measure concerns the municipality of Apollon, which was also the one who was the strongest hit by the cyclone, the communities of Poros and Fternos and the municipal units of Kalamos and Kastos, the two small remote islands of my region. Dismissals shall be prohibited during the arrangement but shall be prohibited for another three months after the end of the suspension. At the same time, temporary financial assistance of EUR 534 is envisaged for workers. Ladies and gentlemen, a horizontal feature of the measures taken is the provision for their speedy implementation. For the first time, direct funds are disbursed for compensation and substantial support measures are activated. The same purpose is served by the amendment allowing regions, in particular those with shortages of staff or islands, to set up evaluation and registration committees with the participation of officials from other departments and members of the Technical and Economic Chamber. This will speed up the recording and assessment of losses and will not delay the payment of compensation. Finally, the extension of the reduced VAT rate of 13% on transport and non-alcoholic fodder until 30 April 2021 is another measure that will support tourism and focus, two branches facing serious problems from the negative effects of the pandemic. Of course, the measures that come either by bill or ministerial decisions are much more and are not limited to them in this bill. In conclusion, I would like to propose that the damaged municipalities take priority over the inclusion of projects we propose in the Antonis Tritsis financial programme, but also in the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Lefkada similar floods and disasters have had three times in the last four years in the very same areas of southern Lefkada, namely Basilica. Given climate change, we will now experience them more frequently, so we need a single integrated plan to address problems at source and as a whole, not fragmentary interventions, not 'blocks', but integrated projects and counter-flood protection infrastructures. Ladies and gentlemen, the government constantly demonstrates that reflexes also have the courage and political will to respond to all the unforeseen adverse events that are taking place. From the Greek and the immigration to the pandemic and the 'January' in each step, it shows determination, design and boldness. These political virtues, moreover, are distinguished by the majority of the citizens who, at every opportunity, re-print their preferences and even by the difference in the New Democracy and even more by the Prime Minister himself, Mrs Mitsotakis. The bill, however, which we are discussing, concerns all the thousands of our affected fellow people who saw homes and businesses destroyed. They can't stop it partisanly. His vote today is practical support for the affected and substantial support for the efforts of people, communities and the economy to stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u247	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to put forward legislative improvements. And when I say Legislative I just mean a number of ministerial amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u249	Thank you. Mr. Gilla, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go to the intercystinda either if our inconvenient Prime Minister spent his weekend somewhere else and went on the fourth, third or fifth day to visit the regions affected by the excessive catastrophes, especially Cardica. I shall refer to the way he visits. We are talking about on-the-spot surveillance and contact, not with the sufferers themselves, but in a protected guarded environment, simple crossing into a closed meeting of actors and service actors which are in many cases involved in the effects of disasters and the damage that has occurred. Let us see now, however, since the Minister is here, if the remedial measures you have taken are sufficient and sufficient to cover the unprecedented damage caused by urban and rural areas and destroyed large-scale property and infrastructure. Minister, the about twenty million you said, the eight million fifty thousand with the rapid deposit and the next twelve will cover the so-called six hundred to the affected families. Yes, mathematics says that if we count the HELLs, they will reach for thirty thousand families. The question and the question is: is this aid sufficient? The size of the damage, the intensity and the extent of them actually make this six hundred “aspirin” a “aspirin”, when we see that nothing works, the local markets have ceased to exist, the ovens in Karditsa, from what we know about the news releases, are not working. Three, the largest municipalities of Argolida, send food to Carditsiots. How, then, will these EUR 600 arrive for each family, to spend the first five or ten days, where they have no place to live? Let's go to the second point now, to the five thousand to make good the damage caused by housing and business. I'm on my way back to Cardica. Unfortunately, it's eloquent. It hurts the example, but that's the way it is. Mrs. Urania Soufla is Vice Mayor Karditsa. I think it's not part of SYRIZA's party. So he estimated that five thousand homes right now need restoration, have almost been destroyed. That's what he said. The businessmen on the first day have just made a thousand five hundred demands, likewise, for affected businesses, which have exceeded three thousand. So let's go to the numbers that, according to Mr. Petsa, we're not good. Five thousand homes for 5,000 make us twenty-five million. Eight thousand the compensation for five thousand (it may be five, because it is not just Carditsa, it is also forty million villages. Sixty-five million for repairing homes, equipment, stores, only for the affected area of Carditsa. We're talking about seventeen other municipalities. According to the bill, it was eighteen. You told us 20. So how do we get there? Has there been a budget? Please, we would also like an answer on that. I think that the Members of Parliament have said so bluntly - and Mr Kotsos and Mr Tsiaras - about the needs for relaunching. We are talking about a devastated area, about a devastated region. Let's go to the infrastructure. Financing of municipalities and regions with 27.9 million, as well as an additional allocation from the Ministry of Infrastructure - through the EIF you told us - which can reach 22 million, i.e. a total of 50 million. At the meeting and the hearing of the bodies Mr Agorastos only for the Region of Thessaly, he said that more than 100 million will be required. "I count them at 150 million," he said. Unfortunately, whatever version we see as more accurate, the reality will show that the size of damage to roads, bridges, water supply and irrigation networks, the network of PPC, the railway lines, which, as Mr Aggostos said, will far exceed these calculations. Are you ready? Is there a relevant line? Let's go to the farmers. Promises - promises of full redress you said - did not contain any costing or valuation at all. But you promised full coverage. Here we are, if that is the case, to remind you of it, to highlight the legitimate and fair demands of the beneficiaries and to "take you a little of the sleeve". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. We have also listened with interest to the Greek Banking Association. Minister, I think you have treated yourself in an unacceptable way in a disgraceful way. You said that you spoke on the phone day with the secretary of the President of the Association of Greek Banks. I think that was a bump. That's not supposed to be the case. The president had to commit himself to the so-called settlement that he would be able to make to the affected. Why didn't he pick up the phone? Probably what I said, the settlement, the benefits and the relief that the affected ones expect, did not want to promise. Mr Lappa has now come to the conclusion that these things have been verified by Mr Lappa. I was informed that since Monday - Mr Tsipras said so, it was also heard by Mr Loverdos - that the clerks with subsidies for confiscations are running for mortgage prefixes. I guess it doesn't reflect reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u252	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I had more to say. I wanted to support an amendment that we have tabled by six SYRIZA Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u253	No, you don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u254	But what should we do? Not to say... If you hadn't interrupted me, I could have backed her up in half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u255	You don't have any more time. We're on the number...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u256	I am referring only to the suspension of first home seizures, which the Prime Minister himself promised by the IGC. He specifically stated: ‘There will be no first home auction by the end of 2020’. So that is what we are asking and I would like to ask my fellow Members from the Commit tee to put them on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u257	Minister, you will have the floor after I say something. Hot request. Everyone knows that the time for fellow Members is five minutes. So let us arrange the contents of his speech so that it does not reach six and say 'I can defend the amendment'. I tell you that they have spoken with you 15 colleagues from forty-six and we have to conclude today's debate at about seven and eight o'clock. At six or seven, did we say the timelines were going to start? Hot request, the warning time in the four minutes should be the end of your speech for the one minute left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u258	We have only spoken 15 Members and it has been seven hours. When are we gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u259	I don't know. Now I'm on it. I asked the time, too, to have them in front of me. And to the previous colleague, from New Democracy, in fact, Mr Kavvada, in five minutes I said 'complete'. That is why I shall be precise in the application of the Rules of Procedure. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u260	The rapporteur has made a very valuable position in many respects. He put down numbers, said evidence, asked. I answer your question directly. Yes, there will be the resources to cover all the damage that will occur in these regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u261	In the farms?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u262	Obviously. As long as requests are made. I would like to inform you that, on the basis of the date of 27 of the month, by 27, we have reported damages to two thousand fourteen houses in all of these areas, one thousand thirty-seven professional spaces - obviously the vast majority is in Carditsa - in sanctuary temples and public buildings seventy-seven, in warehouses and stables ninety-seven. Closed sixty-sixteen. No damage three hundred sixty-three. Total: four thousand nine hundred fourteen. So, yes. We will have the additional resources to cover, if necessary, as long as this is justified. Just one observation. I did not call the secretary of the President of the Hellenic Banking Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u263	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u264	I have called on the Secretary of the Hellenic Banks Association - a great difference - to inform it on Saturday and not on Monday that we are demarcating the municipalities in the problem, so that the banking system in these municipalities will give the corresponding provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u265	I invite Mrs. Anastasia Gara of SYRIZA, who has the floor for five minutes, followed by Mr. Katrinis from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to express my support for our fellow citizens who have been affected by the disasters due to weather events in the past few days. We want to express our support for all those who have been affected all this time in the health and economic crisis, as a result of the catastrophic government management. On the opposite side, however, the dramatic reality experienced by Greek and Greek citizens comes today's bill, which demonstrates the analgesia and cynicism of this government. You are now proposing measures which are pitiful, inadequate to support our affected fellow citizens. Ineffective and measures to focus, culture and work. Legislation as if you have taken away from the Greek reality, but also the needs of society. However, cynicism is such that, instead of dealing with a wide-ranging programme of real support for society, you, at the first opportunity, think about how you will make tax exemptions to big business by way of advertising expenditure, but also about redistributing millions of millions of dollars to the channels, pan-Hellenic and only in scope, through a new list of Petsa. After all - as Mrs Vultesis said - the first list of Pechas, so the first information campaign, was considered a very successful one. We do not know to what extent and for whom it was considered a success. So you say that the tax credit on advertising will strengthen businesses. I wonder about the clothing store, the kiosk, our neighborhood restaurant, how exactly will it benefit from these tax exemptions? Are you aware of what is going on in Greek society and economy? The economy collapses, businesses close every day, workers are made redundant, and the measures you are proposing are tax exemptions to very, very large companies due to advertising expenditure? Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, in the first phase of pandemic, society, in understanding the criticality of moments, gave the government time and tolerance to shield the public health system and the economy. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, not only did you not support the businesses, have you not increased the ICUs, have you not shielded the health system, have you not hired doctors, teachers, cleaners, but also when SYRIZA has submitted an integrated programme of direct support and support for these sectors, what has he said to us? He informed us that for all these branches there are no "leaf trees". Instead, you took advantage of the tolerance of the world to do voucher jobs, micro-policy with direct assignments, assignments, steppings. Your only concern is business! A characteristic example of political cynicism, analgesia, deception of the Greek people is Article 11 of this bill. In such critical circumstances, the Government of the New Republic has as its only priority the granting of a donation to television channels of a pan-Hellenic scale, and even without criteria, without transparency, without accountability. And while there are no "leaf trees" for society - so Mr Petsas told us, this is what we experience in our daily lives, watching the bills that are proposed here - they suddenly grow loaded leaf trees for a new list of Pets, which will be directed to the media. While you have chosen to grant EUR 534 to the affected, you have already given EUR 35 million to the midsts, after you have relieved them of the payment of the permit instalments, and now there is also a new share and new gifts and new millions. It seems that the sprinkling gloss is over, the mood of some media to cover the government's inadequacy in scandals, the sad reality. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, citizens' information is obviously necessary. But it must be done on the basis of existing legislation, with transparency and public accountability. On what criteria will you choose the means, how much does the second transmission cost, why do you make a non-transparent assignment? In all of this, you haven't answered us, like you haven't answered us about these figures for the first list of Pechas. You also know that Law 3592/2007 provides that television stations are required to transmit free messages of social content, especially on health, welfare, etc. They're required! Why don't you keep the law? When the whole society, ladies and gentlemen, has put its backs on many casualties, why does the government not ask the channels to put their backs on as required by law? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, but I ask for your tolerance as you have shown the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u267	There's no tolerance to any precedents. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u268	But I imagine that this is none of your business and you haven't even asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u269	You're done, Mrs. Gara!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u270	Already some SMEs have made public their availability for free campaigns, but you do not care. Hypocritically invoke the argument that media companies need support. We say that, of course, they need support and come to discuss a strategy for strengthening media, strengthening democracy, strengthening ethics, strengthening work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u272	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u273	No, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u274	I would ask that there be equality and equal treatment for Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u275	We shall be observing the Rules of Procedure for all, because there are thirty Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u276	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u277	No, you're done. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u278	Please, Mr President, your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u279	It's not about me. It's a matter of all colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u280	Instead of that, the government panicked by the continuing failures is buying out with public money political support and cover. He pays with public money lies, vulgar attacks on political opponents, squeezes the different viewpoint, pays to hide news, falsify the truth, create a new reality. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in the muds of Carditsa, in the deuts of Corinth, all negative events have not only been buried.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u281	Mrs. Gara, please complete. No more time, I'll turn off the microphone! Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u282	The news was buried, the unbundled briefing was buried. It is therefore a question of democracy. It's a blow to democracy. Please withdraw Rule 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u283	What you have done is not right at all, because we will be able not to speak to colleagues. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u284	The same rules must be observed for all colleagues!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u285	The same rules are observed. I at least follow that rule. I don't know earlier...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u286	They don't exist at all. I don't know that. I respect for myself the Rules of Procedure and please warmly. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for five minutes. And I don't understand why you can't schedule the five minutes and you have to put me in a difficult position, but also abuse the kindness of colleagues who won't speak. Well, you have the floor, Mr. Katrin, with a warm request for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's debate is taking place in the shadow of the Pompeo visit to our country, where of course we welcome both bilateral negotiations and discussions. In any case, however, it must be made clear both to Mr Pompeo and to the European partners that in our country we consider the front of Hellenism to be a single and, in any case, the improper violation of the Cypriot EEZ from the neighbouring country is not something that remains out of discussion and it obviously requires sanctions to be imposed on both the Council and on any dialogue table that our country finds. We are discussing a bill containing provisions aimed at alleviating the wounds opened by the recent theories and we as the Change Movement have made it clear from the outset that we support this bill, of course, with comments and points, as our rapporteur, Vassilis Kegeroglou, mentioned in detail. We are calling for uniform dates of suspension of payment of obligations in public, insurance funds, banks, local government, suspension of payment of all obligations in areas that have been fully destroyed, rather than partial suspensions, and, of course, for the self-evident, that is, automatic application of the relief measures that we are voting on in Parliament today in those regions that have either suffered or suffered in the future and face similar weather conditions regardless of the extent of the area. Because if fifteen or thousands of homes are destroyed, it doesn't mean those who were destroyed, and they're fifteen in one area, they need less support than our compatriots in Karditsa. Mr. Kegeroglu referred to Heraklion. I would also like to say that we had extreme weather phenomena in Elias, Minister, such as messing up, windstorms in Giannitsochori, Neochori, in the Municipality of Sakharos, in many villages, as well as in the municipality of Pyrgos. I would like to believe that there will also be a similar application of relief measures to the inhabitants of these areas who have suffered total destruction, even if they are individual cases. It is therefore necessary to implement horizontal measures with immediate relief, without bureaucracy - of course you do not adopt Mr Karamanlis' model in 2007 in Elias with the hair, because we know the side effects, Mr Minister - and the personalisation of the damage to businesses, to establishments, crops, with subsidies in particular to producers who have suffered total destruction, direct activation of the ELGA, transparency, objectivity and impartiality. Apart from the measures that will be law in a few hours' time - and I hope they will be implemented as soon as possible to reach the people who have suffered the disaster - there is a bitter taste for the preparation of the state mechanism for the prevention of such phenomena. Self-government blames the state, the state says some things are the responsibility of self-government. So the question remains: Is the government finally prepared? We see also the alalum that took place at the beginning of the school year, but also with Article 10, where we are voting today on funding for substitutes and school-leaving teachers, that in the field of education it was not prepared. Was the health system shielded and adequately staffed? I think there's been a detailed discussion. Nowadays, with Amendment No 481, for the use of private beds, the acceptance of donations, the operation of outdoor markets, the transmission of price data from supermarkets. And I'm asking. Did we overcome the pandemic crisis and today we had to extend these deadlines? Is this proof that the government had been reassured and wanted to pass a wrong message that we left the crisis behind and now runs to prolong what it should have extended for too long? Sixteen days ago the Prime Minister announced 12 measures to stimulate the economy. To date only three of them - two in today's debate - have come to the House to ratify and implement. How long do you need to apply what you announce and send the right message to investors and to the market? You're saying that you're abolishing him in twenty-six remote islands. You are not saying, however, that in the seventh memorandum of assessment you have committed that by the end of the first half of the year you will harmonise objective and commercial values, with what this implies for the people's districts, and you will put three thousand zones outside the system of objective values. You say this to the Greek people and not say that you will reduce HISPIAN to increased objective and commercial values, which will take place at the end of the six-month period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the auctions are concerned, it is gratifying that Parliament decides to suspend auctions and not the Greek Banking Association. And SYRIZA, who, up to 25 July, said to extend Law4605, now remembered to suspend auctions until the end of 2020 for vulnerable borrowers. He changed his mind. For SMEs, Mr President - and I thank you for your little tolerance - we have said that we do not support this provision. We consider the decision to exclude the regional media which, with the same credibility, seriousness and validity, contribute to informing our fellow citizens. We have called for criteria for transparency, of course, in the presence of workers and listeners, spectacularity and objectivity in the allocation of these amounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u288	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u289	We do not understand why the government insists on the same wrong recipe and excludes regional media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u290	I call to Stepma the Ms. Kafantari of SYRIZA for five minutes. Five minutes are provided by the Rules of Procedure in the urgent bills. It is not a restriction on the Bureau. This is the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of government, how far are you from reality? It is a fact that you live in a virtual reality. Can you, gentlemen of the government and you, the government MPs, look into the world of Cardiff and the Ionian Islands, especially of Kefalonia and Ithaca, in the eyes? That really is a question. You bring in a draft law, measures for COVID -19, as you say, rehabilitation of wounded, etc. And you have the feeling that you are basically finishing with the restoration of the great natural disasters that have hit our country with normal horizontal measures. You think you did your duty. But what is the reality in Karditsa and the Ionian Islands, which will take a long time to get together? To report to the world when the great natural disaster occurred, which I stress was already known to occur - its extent, of course, not, but that it will happen - two days ago? You have worked very hard, and you have been in a difficult position, ladies and gentlemen, to say that the government and the majority of government at all levels were present. But the truth is quite different. SYRIZA had to go, we SYRIZA MPs, along with local executives, the day after the natural disaster in Karditsa, have to make an autopsy so that the various government actors would be forced to appear. So I'd say that Alexis Tsipras needed to really talk to the world, just like we did. Because our debt is really next to the world when it's tested. You tried to justify it. Yes - it says - government officials went right away, agents, etc. With helicopters you don't see the real situation, nor with meetings of two Undersecretaries in a closed circle with some local factors in Karditsa, for example. Did you really talk to the world? Did you see his problems in person? Did you see the needs of the businesses that the farmers, who are small businessmen, have? At the moment the infrastructure has been destroyed to a large extent and this is particularly intense in the Ionian Islands, Kefalonia and Ithaca - which SYRIZA went there as well - but of course also in Karditsa. The dangers of winter are coming. What do you have to suggest, apart from some horizontal measures, which have been little - very well defined in Evia too. I do not know if they have been compensated - let me, I think not yet - people and businesses there. I would like to say on the press, Minister, that last week the compensation for the deaths in Halkidiki was signed a year ago. Oh, no! The state, the state, as a government to intervene and immediately to relieve the affected, people and businesses, especially farmers, because we are talking about a purely rural area. The economy of this county has practically collapsed because the city of Carditsa lives from the rural world, which was basically destroyed. Here I am going to refer to the fact that of the fifty-five pharmacies in Karditsa, forty-six have suffered terrible disasters. For agricultural production, of course, we are not talking about. Of course, we have heard many of the government and MPs discover climate change, say millions of tons of water that fell, etc. Yeah, you slowly discovered climate change, of course. There is climate change, but it is not the responsibilities alone there. It's the easy solution. The climate change that exists requires a state to plan, plan, have climate change adaptation plans for each region. We in 2016 made the national climate change adaptation plan, but how are these going on in the regions? What kind of plays are there? Each region in its budget also has technical projects, has budgets for flooding projects, etc. What happened? Should you be prepared to see them go ahead and see, in this direction, the fight against bureaucracy and the delays, all of us helping to move forward and shield our country into climate change, shield our infrastructures? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because, you know, there are mountainous areas, especially in Karditsa now that infrastructure has fallen, eight days after the disaster, there are still excluded villages.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u292	Close, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u293	I'm closing, Mr. President. Of course, there are problems respectively in the island regions. In Ithaca right now, children can't go to school because the road network is damaged. You have huge responsibilities! The Civil Protection to take over its role! The prevention policy must be made specific and act in this direction because it is essential - prevention, prevention, prevention - and, of course, short-term restoration that must be done immediately in order to operate at this stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u295	Finally, for the Civil Protection, you law and put him aside. Re-projects are being reintroduced in 2003. With DARDANO and the directions it gives, we are trying to solve problems. The damage is huge. They need measures! And anyway, be serious, gentlemen of the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u296	I warn colleagues that they will not speak. You're misusing time. Shut up, Mrs. Capitol!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u297	It is not just mass communication and direct awards from the General Secretariat of Citizens' Protection with the amendment you are bringing. That's not all. They're the needs of the world. Be serious because the world needs it, you must support it, and that is where your policy is judged! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u298	Look at the time. That's the half-minute you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u300	I don't want any thanks. I just want to warn that some colleagues will not speak. There will be a specific sitting time, and this is due to colleagues who want to speak more than five minutes in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kellas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an extremely important bill, which focuses on human beings, and we hope with this to give breath to the regions affected by the cyclone. I've been in the affected areas of the Farsalon since the first moment, since Saturday morning. This is a biblical disaster, which, in words, is difficult to describe. Whole houses on the street, covered with mud, hundreds of animals drowned, flocked, destroyed - where, of course, access was possible - and tens of thousands of acres of cotton, which were ready for harvest, destroyed. And on the other hand, a world in despair. The government reacted immediately and by order of Mr.Mitsotakis at noon on Saturday reached Farsala a ministerial step under the Undersecretary of the Undersecretary of Theodoros Livanios. EUR 37 million has already been disbursed, and this draft law sets out firstly the allocation of EUR 5 000 000 and EUR 8 000 000 respectively for every house or operation that has been affected, money unrelated and tax-free. There is also a suspension of seizures, auctions and bookings up to 30 September 2021, as well as a suspension of all outstanding accredited and due tax obligations for both enterprises and natural persons for six months, and the amendment to an extension of a declaration on undeclared squares in the TAs until 31 December 2020. I must say here, of course, to Mr Hatzidakis that it is good that this extension until 31 December, which the Chamber of Technical Chamber of Commerce also asks for, applies to the whole world because of the burden of work, but also because of the problems of the techniques presented by the system. Mr Stavoura, a measure that has been fully implemented - and good for you! - for enterprises, this is a repayable advance. It must now also apply to the floods, to the operations in the areas affected by the flood. They're asking for it, and I think it's the only measure that can help them effectively. I would also like to point out, Minister, two categories of injured persons to be included in special legislation. Firstly, in addition to plant and livestock disasters, hundreds of stores full of agricultural products were completely destroyed or badly damaged. The majority are farmers who had stored their crops or even traders of agricultural products who had within a few thousand tonnes of cereals, wheat, barley, etc. What about them, Minister? How will they be compensated? The eight grand is good, but I think the number is funny. Secondly, several Farsalinians - he pointed it out in his speech in the Committee on Economic Affairs and mayor Farsalon, Mr. Makis Esquioglou - who, due to their work, live in Trikala, Karditsa, Volos, or even in the Farsala, have a patrimony in Periphery, King, Stavros, Eudrion, Pirgakia, in the surrounding villages. They've been destroyed by the flood. I think they too should receive the allowance, regardless of whether it is declared in tax as first or second residence. Furthermore, Minister, farmers have suffered enormous damage to agricultural machinery, pomones, cars, water tires, boilers. And, of course, the commander of ELGA, Mr. Lykourenzos, in his honor, for five days, went to all the regions affected in Thessaic Campos, but these non-agricultural disasters, how will they be compensated? This must be done immediately because the next growing season begins. As far as the infrastructure is concerned, the whole or the majority of the hydraulic works infrastructure has been destroyed, while the bridges have also been damaged and a significant part of the road has been destroyed. Of course, the restoration of infrastructure is not only about you, Minister, but also about other ministries and also about self-government authorities. Already the district director Thessaly - to say some truths - after a special regional council approved and started: First, the construction of the bridge at Dilofos, which will connect Dilofos to Achilles and Farsala for the next month to be delivered for use. Secondly, the Tree - Narthaki - Watchtower road is restored. Thirdly, repair of the Farsala - Volos and Farsala - Larissa to the sites which have been damaged. And I think, Mr Staikora, that strengthening the region of Thessaly at that time and because of the exceptional circumstances will be necessary. I think money should be given. Finally, we need to fortify our place better against climate change. Anti-military works, such as elementary cleansing and gravel landings, but also large, such as the Watchtower dam, which has been dragging into drawers for decades and which will also work as an anti-military and as an irrigational, but also as a water supplyer, must now proceed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u302	Finish it, Mr. Kelles. You'll make it easier for me. Please warmly. Hang up in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u303	Of course, Mr President. The media do not give the true picture of destruction to the Farsalon garden, perhaps because they focus more on Carditsa or the other affected regions of Greece. In addition to Farsala, I must tell you that it has damages, including Larissa, where a thousand acres - Falane, Brittany, Rhodia - have been flooded and, of course, farmers demand fair and rapid compensation. I listen to SYRIZA colleagues who were critical of the delay, he says, the government's intervention, a government that was on the same day at the point of disaster and a Prime Minister who visited the affected regions immediately. And I ask you: are they talking about a rope in the house of the hanged man? Mercy! It's the end of the make news!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Kelles, you're closed. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u305	I shall conclude, Mr President. In Article 8, I'm going to file a report from the Larissa Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u306	Everybody's done and you're not done! I haven't seen anyone who says it's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u307	I'm filing the report from the Larissa Chamber on extending professions that should be in advertising. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Kelles, presents for the minutes the above mentioned reference, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And a few words about education. For the first time after ten years four thousand five hundred people are appointed for Special Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u308	It's not the day for education, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u309	For the first time twenty - five thousand teachers were in their seats at the end of August. For the first time seven thousand other thirty-two are appointed, and the next ten days will be appointed another five thousand to pay the remaining vacant posts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u310	And look at the time you took. You're closed, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u311	For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of this bill and we are here to monitor the implementation of the announced measures to be taken immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u312	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Vassilis Kokalis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a bad event, after a natural disaster, it is decided at the earliest hours whether or not the state and those who are responsible for governance have a coherent plan or try to gain political time until this difficult juncture is overcome. I think that from the real facts and from what has been presented to us today by the government, we conclude that, unfortunately, the government is moving in the second direction. Let's be clear. I'm not going to focus on the early arrival of someone responsible at the time of the damage. A serious state, however, owes a natural disaster to answer a very basic question of bad weather victims. One thing has to be done, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to come out and say: I am compensation for all the damages. We have insecurity, because of the economic crisis in COVID -19, and most of all this insecurity is intensified by the regions affected. I compensate as a state for all the damages. Instead, what do we have? We've got 12 meters. You've been heard by some about 12 meters. I will not mention names, I believe, that I am conveying requests and complaints from fellow citizens. Of the twelve measures, three were your legally obligation. You know, there's the word force majesty, Minister. You do not do a favor when you suspend for six months tax and insurance obligations. You don't do any favors when you're inhibiting auctions for a year. It is true that the banks will simply regulate favorably. So one of the twelve left is nine. We don't do a favor when someone ruined his business and tell him that I'm transferring your obligation for a few months, clear things. First of all, the Ministry of Rural Development had to be involved in this bill. The regions affected are purely agricultural, Minister. It is Almyros, Farsala, Karditsa, which means that their local society is supported if not exclusively by farmers and farmers. You have just accused us of the speech of Alexis Tsipras on political opportunism, that we are going to take advantage of it. I will pass on four questions to my fellow citizens, to see whether they are political opportunism or not. It may be or perhaps we too have failed to understand any of the twelve measures correctly. A Farsala businessman destroyed his agricultural products. Which one of the twelve measures falls to if it falls under? Farmer from King Farsalon was stored fifty - five tons of wheat. He asks what the procedure is and whether it will be compensated. Farmer from Cross Farsalon asks the water tires and the drilling in which one of the twelve settings falls. If it falls, then we badly say so and we are political opportunities or we do not understand well. Two businessmen from Karditsa, one with café bar restaurant and one with clothes, were destroyed and there are pictures and people ask: What is the procedure, and what is the basic point, if the goods are compensated for 50,000 euros. Do you mean the repayable advance that you will assist entrepreneurs with loans even with the public guarantee or through the repayable advance? Let's make it clear, Minister. We'll all agree on something, that five and eight thousand euros are crumbs. But the businessman also has merchandise. It is crucial, we must and unfortunately have not heard it, so it makes a serious state say 'all are compensated'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u314	And hang up with this, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u315	I have closed down, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much, too. Before I call on Mr Alexiadis to say that there will be an end to the sitting, that is, the end of the vote at 19.45. You can understand that, until then, the Deputy Minister of Finance will still have to speak, if there is any need for intervention by the Minister of Finance on the issues that are being raised, he is the Parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece and, therefore, what I warned - late, of course, because I was running the meeting - it is true that many colleagues will not speak. Why is that so? It must begin parliamentary scrutiny at 20.00 because the session is closed. We will enter a new summit which means while many colleagues, in fact, because many of them, have been prepared for the topical questions and, at the same time, ministers have prepared to answer them, this whole issue is resolved if the sitting is not closed at 19.45. Because it must be cleansed and aerated by the Chamber, because we are also living in the pandemic, and we must respect the health rules first. Mr Alexiadis has the floor for five minutes, which I would ask everyone to keep, to speak for even one colleague above.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill, which the government brought with it under the urgency procedure, because it wanted to convince us, (this is its political account, trying to pass it on to everyone) that it has urgent provisions in it. And, of course, within the provisions of the bill, there are many problems facing this disaster. But what is the political inappropriateness and the political wickedness of the government? In a difficult period of time, a bill which faces problems of destruction for much of the Greek territory comes and hides provisions which favour specific interests. That is the political inappropriateness! Of course, we have no question why this is done by the New Democracy. In the past and the New Democracy and other parties in the House brought such provisions for specific reasons. And the question is: After the government solves urgent problems, the urgent problem of the protection of first home not on the basis of something that a SYRIZA official or a member of parliament said, but the protection of first residence on the basis of what the Prime Minister told the PMI will be legislated on the basis of the amendment that Mr Giolas has tried to develop and we have tabled six Members to implement what the Prime Minister has said? Please respond to this House at last if these issues are urgent. Do we have to deal with'swine grapes' or'swine grapes' to remember an old story? But let us now come to an analysis of the draft law on three articles which, Mr Stakoura, with all personal appreciation, will be politically blamed on you. In Article 8, which we will be tabling as a written question next year: in Article 8 on tax relief by deducting advertising expenditure which is unknown to the public - we do not know how much public costs - how many businesses from Karditsa and Sofia have asked you for such aid? In Article 9, at 18 million public costs. Yes, of course, it makes a product cheaper and we can discuss all this. I wish you could bring some provisions to abolish what you and Mr Besiropoulos were calling, the twenty-nine unfair taxes of SYRIZA, (i.e. twenty-eight, because one of us was prevented and abolished), but you have not yet brought anything. I wish you could bring these provisions to discuss them. But, to understand, for this article 9 and for the 18 million, why first of all do you choose to implement what you have been asked for, and why are 18 million being given to those you legislate and not to those who have suffered the disasters? Are there any companies from Farsala and the Lianoclad requesting the suspension of the pay-TV fee? And the most scandalous of all, honourable Members, who probably requested companies from MacArkomi and Almyros is media funding. And looking through my papers I found that these media will be financed at an unknown cost. Why look at the other political evils of the government: in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State it says "unknown expenditure". We don't know how much it will be! In committee, the Minister responsible said 2 million. Why don't you bring a legislative improvement to say 'up to EUR 2 million'? But remind me, Minister, please do something else: are these companies that owe the Greek State money for television licences and which, in order to help them, you have given a year to suspend the payment of these instalments while in Carditsa and the other regions you have not given? You gave for six months and in six months you'll be looking to pay HISBIA for the damaged houses that will be troubled by procedures to get rid of HISBIA. Finally, I thought - and this, Mr President, not in your physical capacity, in your capacity as representative of the Bureau, is also a matter for the Bureau - that when the Scientific Service of Parliament does a very good job and shares a report I think there should be the elementary requirement that the Government responds to what the Scientific Service of this House has to say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You brought two legislative improvements - and I conclude with that, Mr President - to the bill and nowhere do you reply to the very serious things the House's Scientific Service tells you in Article 3, where it asks you a question - before the bill is passed - in terms of the seat, that is to say if someone was destroyed in Carditsa and is taxed in Athens, what is going to be done with this subject? And the most serious of all is in Article 11 where it says "since the relevant opinion of the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts is not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of this year" - the Ministry of Finance forgot it to ask the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts to bring this provision, it was so urgent to assist these enterprises - "it is appropriate to send a draft decision to the RESIDER".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u318	And that is what you are ending, Mr Colleague, because you have no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u319	I shall conclude, Mr President. Please answer these questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u320	The Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u321	...because I understand that you are disturbed by the term "political fraud", but after this bill, it will be a characterisation, which is very mild and must at least be strengthened. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u322	I now call on the Prime Minister of the New Democracy, Mr Constantino Maraveya, to take the floor for five minutes, and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, will speak. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is, unfortunately, faced not with one, but with three extraordinary humanitarian needs. The first is the continuation of last March's health crisis, which seems to recur, at least in Attica. The second emergency took place again recently, unfortunately, with the inconvenience of foreigners and the destruction of the Moria Immigrant Center, an arson that left homeless more than twenty thousand people. The third humanitarian emergency was unfortunately a theory. We learned in Greece firsthand a new extreme weather phenomenon, the Mediterranean cyclone. The disasters it caused were huge. Only material damage in Thessaly is estimated at EUR 800,000,000, and of course, the greatest loss was that of our three people who were lost from the floods. We are therefore talking about three emergency needs which the government was asked to meet successfully. And indeed, he does it effectively, without that meaning that there are no other things that can be done. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the real measures and regulations of this bill. The first article introduces the financial assistance of EUR 5,000 for natural persons whose dwelling was affected and EUR 8,000 for legal persons with a view to addressing the exceptional need for "Jan" and the resulting floods that hit areas of Thessaly. Article 3 imposes a suspension until 30 September 2021 of any act of forced execution on a movable or immovable property of natural or legal persons in areas declared in an emergency as a result of ‘Janu’. For the same period the deadlines for exercising legal instruments or devices relating to outstanding auctions shall be suspended. With Article 5 - and in order to ensure jobs in the areas affected by the 'January' - urgent measures are adopted for workers affected. In the case of Magnesia, these areas belong to the Municipality of Almyros, but the Ministry of Finance, Mr Minister, and some other municipal units, such as New Anchialo, have also been particularly affected. There is, in my opinion, no reason for opt-out. In these areas employers may suspend their contracts of employment until the damage caused has been recovered but not beyond three months. Undertakings shall be required after the suspension has expired to maintain the same number of employees, at least for a period equal to that of the suspension. The above employees are beneficiaries of 534 euros a month, as well as a Christmas gift ratio with full insurance coverage from the state budget. Under Article 10, the Ministry of Education shall be given financial support to cover the payroll of additional assistants and staffed teachers. These appropriations will be made available to urgent and unforeseen additional recruitment needs for all kinds of new contractors, including special training and assistant staff. The damage due to "Janu" in residential and private buildings is covered at 60% by the state, while the military has rushed everywhere to repair public infrastructure. Only in the area of Karditsa were made available by the Army personnel and inside the Mechanics, but seven hundred portions of food are produced daily for the people affected in the area. This is the essential help given by the Mitsotakis Government with extraordinary allowances to citizens and grants to the affected municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to hear any 'bravo' about what the Government of Mrs Mitsotakis is doing in this area. What each government needs is an opposition that is responsible for criticising and proposing things that are possible. Let us now see what Mr Tsipras said in the specific case of 'January', reading the relevant post - on the measures taken recently by the Mitsotakis Government. First of all, he blames her for not restoring the bridges of Thessaly by sending the Army. Apparently, he means his mechanics and special equipment located in Evros. So what are you telling us? What does the former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, also tell us, who knows exactly how things are? The constant threat exists on our land borders and actually tells us to leave Evros, especially at this time, to bring bridgers to central Greece. We must all be lucky that at these critical times, Mr. Mitsotakis is at the wheel of the country and not Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u324	And that's it, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u325	I shall conclude, Mr President. I am afraid only of the thought of what would happen if he were to implement his phenomenal ideas today. The other great idea is to make the state a giant insurance policy without premiums. He told us that there must be full and non-refundable support for the damages of 'January'. Did Mr. Tsipras ever give 100% state compensation for natural disasters in the five years of his prime ministership? Never! But now he's rushing to play with the pain of the wounded pretending to be the good guy with no money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u326	Close, Mr. Maraveya. You're cutting off another colleague of yours. Put it down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u327	If that is not political empathy, as he himself said, I cannot imagine what it is. The most outrageous - and I conclude, Mr President, in a second - was the inappropriate reference to dealing with major natural disasters. The problem wasn't the hundreds dead but negative publicity. That is why I say again that all Greeks must feel very lucky that in these difficulties, the Prime Minister responsible is Mr Mitsotakis and not a major persecutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u328	I will invite the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos for six minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, a Pompeo unites you New Democracy and SYRIZA. You are united by the service of the American-Natural designs to participate in the plundering at the expense of the peoples of the region and by the Greek groups. We should now enter the bill after that commentation. In the same work we are spectators, Mr President, only this time we have a rotation of roles after every natural disaster, and of course all of you invest in human suffering, so that you can cover up the fact that you are all responsible for the problems facing the floods. Your tears are crocodile. And we say this because, of course, you resort to easy criticism when the ministerial part went, when the Prime Minister, when they didn't go. The New Democracy is accusing SYRIZA of what it has done in the past and in this way you are trying to cover up your responsibilities both today and yesterday. And we say that because we are dealing with a specified crime, what happened in the Ionian Islands, in Thessaly and elsewhere, and the responsibilities are timeless. They belong, of course, to the current government, but they also belong to the previous governments. Mr Tsakalotos wondered in his speech what this model was that made us more vulnerable to being unable to cope with the consequences of natural phenomena. We call it clear. Get two examples to be understood. Does the unregulated and uncontrolled location of wind parks have a responsibility for the flooding phenomena? Sure. Saint Euphemia is drowned every year by the wind park that is above it. Secondly, does the unreasonable tourist development, where everything is subject to tourism development, have responsibilities? Sure. The parking lot built on the stream destroyed Ace and was a municipal car park, to park the tourist buses and the wheelchairs there. So here's who they're responsible for. We have here, in particular, to do with the use of land and land planning, which serves the needs of business groups and their priorities, rather than satisfying people's needs, and from this point of view we say it clearly, it is not right to generalise that flooding phenomena are to blame for the human factor. Oh, no. It is because of the interventions made to serve the designs and priorities of the monopolistic groups. The ones on the table. And this is even more evident in the fact that our country could be shielded by such phenomena, earthquakes, floods, fires, based on the particular development of technology. We see, then, that instead of doing so, we have infrastructure projects which serve the interests of business groups and in such a way as to cause flooding phenomena. Is it accidental that the Ministry of Transport has launched projects concerning the flooding of the major road corridors? Why? Because when roads were built, in order to reduce costs, but to increase their profits, concessionaires did not become anti-military works, and now the taxpayers are asked to pay, so that the flooding works on the roads can be done and people do not drown. So here’s how the profit is responsible for not making the necessary flooding. And that seems very clear in the affected areas. For example, the outdated electrical grid collapsed, regardless of whether the summer causes fires. What didn't collapse, though? It didn't collapse the network that is a new generation that serves wind turbines. The example of St. Euphemia again we bring it. The wind turbines were working, but the world had no power. Farmers were unable to save their production and livelihood, for example. So it seems clear that the projects qualifying are those which serve the needs of monopolistic groups rather than the people. Third element, the state. The state is almighty to collect taxes, it is almighty to break workers' struggles and it suddenly becomes weak when it is going to face the world's flooding phenomena and needs. Really, don't you know there'd be a banner and the crew couldn't go? It should have happened earlier. You know, Minister, that in Kefalonia there was no generator working, not even at the service of civil protection, and when the electricity was cut, it could not be contacted by the staff of the Kefalonia Region. Do you know, Minister, that the Sami Health Center, which had cut the current, had been in surgery with the phone lens that day? So here is what the criteria are and what the state you are defending is. So this is the state that is responsible for the problems faced by governments, regions and municipalities. Another matter. We criticise you, Minister, and the government, because the measures are fragmentary. And why are they fragmentary? Firstly, precisely because you do not have a framework for the immediate restoration of infrastructure. You're thinking the municipalities should send out technical files to make the works. Really, for the road in Thai, carrying dozens of students every day and cutting off the island in two, should we first become a technical file, auction, objections be made to this project, or else will the island be cut off? What beautiful things you're saying! We are talking about the specific circumstances in which the road should already have been. To restore significant wearouts. Secondly, the question of our criticism. Your compensation has a loss cut. We say that all the disasters that have taken place must be compensated. The actual damage suffered both in the areas concerned and in the workplace and in the agri-foodstuffs and not by fragmentation. To cover all the losses and not just this year's income. We have phenomena here that were gone. It was destroyed, not only this year's production of olive oil, but also for the next few years, if any. Will the loss of these incomes be covered, Minister? Will it be taken into account? You are talking about the question of workers. You know very well that in the Ionian Islands areas, the companies have first stopped their operation because they are tourist enterprises. They're small catering shops. These won't work until next year if they'll work next year. Employees can't fill out the 50 marks there to get into the unemployment fund. What can they do with the suspension of the contract? Here you need to lower the threshold for the employees of these companies to enter the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u330	Finish, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u331	I shall conclude with the latter, Mr President, and thank you very much, I have received my second language. It's the speed of the indemnity. Here are complaints that in the '14 earthquake...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u332	There's no dentistry, but finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u333	I'll finish in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u334	Just so it doesn't grow...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u335	Okay, I thought I had a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u336	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u337	I say, therefore, that in the earthquakes of 1914 on the Ionian Islands, you still owe them compensation. Three governments have been through since then and otherwise you are concerned with sensitivity. Finally, we need immediate measures of integrated armour, anti-military, anti-Semitism and anti-Semitism, with the settlement of the whole torrents, but also of water basins. These are the necessary projects, so that we do not have a repetition of the same phenomena anymore. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, too. Mr Panagis Capatos from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the bill, I shall be speaking on a number of issues relating in particular to Kefalonia and Ithaca. I'm sorry that the Chief of Officer's Representation, Mr. Tsipras, found no room in his speech to make a reference to Kefalonia and Ithaca that may be a smaller place, but he also has great problems. Talking about weather phenomena last week, the greatest success in Kefalonia and Ithaca was that there was sufficient preparation and information for bad weather. The result is that the majority of citizens have passed away and so we have not mourned victims. With all its timeless weaknesses the Greek state has operated from the first moment and today stands next to people who face difficulties because of bad weather. The Government has financed directly from the Local Government agencies for emergencies and is constantly assessing the situation. I thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Hardalia, for his direct intervention, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the entire government, because they are standing next to Kefalonia and Ithaca at legislative level and through the financing of emergencies. The Armed Forces have been in Kefalonia since the first moment and they literally dig up the settlement of Assos. The support measures provided for in the bill are very important. The main projections concern the granting of financial aid, tax-free and inappropriate aid, suspension of enforcement measures, measures to protect jobs and support for the unemployed. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is a negative precedent in Kefalonia, which is why the citizens are quite skeptical when they hear about support measures and compensation measures. I am referring to the 2014 earthquake in Kefalonia. I tell you attributes that compensation from the 2014 earthquake has not been given to anyone and has spent four and a half years in which to rule counter-population, ladies and gentlemen. The same has been done in areas of Kefalonia struck by floods from previous years. There are three points which the state needs to see carefully: first, in some cases the compensation provided does not meet the needs. For the primary sector and tourism, for example, the objective of greater financial support must be given. Compensation procedures must be done quickly and in a way that will not make citizens even more trouble. Secondly, it is crucial to support local government agencies with staff for their technical services so that they can complete the procedures for restoring infrastructure without delays. Thirdly, extensions should be made for important procedures by which several citizens have not been able to complete these days. I am referring in particular to: extension of a period for the submission of arbitrary, extension of a time limit for recording undeclared squares by the municipalities and extension of the possibility of issuing category 1 and category 2 building permits. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing is that the Greek state finally sees with real interest crucial issues that run for Kefalonia and Ithaca. The emergency measures are important, but the main problems of our islands cannot be dealt with through emergency situations. Kefalonia and Ithaca are islands that face over time problems from the whole range of natural disasters, from earthquakes, floods, fires and landslides. As far as health is concerned, for example, ladies and gentlemen, in major cities in mainland Greece, such as Kalamata, hospitals cannot be classified as barren at the Kefalonia Hospital as a process cannot be found to come to work for doctors of the most basic skills. The Kefalonias Hospital and the Ithaca Health Center must be declared barren. What else must happen, Ministers, to preach barrenly? It has not been possible for ten years to provide a donation of tens of millions of euros for the operation of an intensive care facility in Kefalonia, for the Greek state to have signed it for its operation and for the Ministry of Health not to have carried out the necessary procedures ten years now. It is not for decades that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy has been inactive to regulate the ownership of forest land in the Ionian Islands, a case for which we are trying to convince the ministries of things that have been decided by irrevocable decisions of the Ionian Region and the Council of State and which are a brake on the development of the Ionian islands. Before I finish, Mr President, on behalf of the citizens of Kefalonia and Ithaca I would like to thank all those who stood next to us in these difficult days, the local government, the Armed Forces, which Mr Tsipras has not seen, our heterogeneous people, the services, the Firefighting, the Police, the Port Authority and all the Security Body. The most optimistic of our society through this disaster is the great wave of volunteering and solidarity that these days we are living in Kefalonia and Ithaca. Voluntary groups and ordinary citizens work day and night. They saved lives. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Greek Parliament we must honour them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u340	We also thank you because you have approached as much as anyone else a year, although you are a Member of a one-sided region affected. I call on the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Nikos Pappa, to take the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. We happened to discuss this bill at a time when cosmo-historic statements are made. I am referring first of all to the historic statement that the Prespecies Agreement is a historic agreement. We need clarification here, because there has been a proper repetition. You understand the ridiculousness of the matter, because it is a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which all international diplomacy sees. Wasn't this text ever there? Was there a false secretary, or is there a veto in New Democracy, and was it practiced to get that word out of the public communiqué? You remember the veto that Mr Mitsotakis was going to exercise here - it is obvious that there is no - for the entry of northern Macedonia into the European Union. I think another veto exists and makes the country - I think - to be sympathetic, let me say it kindly, of other diplomatic missions. The second statement on which we had been presided by the Minister of Finance in Sunday 'SYNEY', came from Parliament's Budget Office and says that in the third quarter the recession will be higher than the one recorded in the second quarter and that is your recession alone. There's no lockdown and a bug there. There are your own wrong choices, which were not prepared during Lockdown, which, of course, did not strengthen domestic tourism and opened international tourism without strict health protocols and without any condition of testing. Where have we arrived now? To blame our children in schools - we've heard this also from distractors - that occupations will be the scenes of spreading the virus and they're asking us to condemn our children. We won't condemn our children. Our children will support them, and if some intend to condemn them, we will fight with our children to prevent that. And of course, it's the bus passengers! Be careful, once you took over, you cancelled a competition for seven hundred fifty buses, which - listen, of course, for the Greek administrative time - provided that they would cover both the service and the spare parts. What does that mean? It means there would be no room for extra assignments during life and use of buses. For 15 years it would be the contract, which would reduce the operating costs faced by these companies. We could reduce the cost of making it a reduction in the ticket. You canceled this contest - in fact - to come and say, "We will find two hundred buses, taking from the private sector". Yes, sir. Excuse me, these are no choices that support the public interest and blame the world and various smart people on television to say "go on foot to your work" is at least insulting. Cardigan. Do you have a picture? I really ask with honesty. Do you know what the picture was on Saturday night? Abrupt the scenery. No current, no official should have appeared from the local government and the first and second grades, those who celebrated next to you for your success in the municipal elections, which were called "Janus has beaten us". Keep in mind that they gave the local media the news that the day before the disaster, Thursday morning - take notice of me a little - the local government held a conference with the co-legislators and prepared sufficient for the 'January'. I submit to the minutes the front page of the newspaper "Morning Cardits" on Friday. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same day when the disaster took place at night, they say they are ready to face the 'Januan'. Do you understand? And people themselves had the courage - I really admire them - not to appear next to their fellow citizens when they fought alone with mud and soil. You too, Minister, are aware that the five and eight thousand are obviously not about saving property and restarting the city's economic life. Because the city's economic life has been destroyed because equipment, merchandise and stock are destroyed. The harvest outside the city, which would generate incomes that could strengthen the city with economic activity in it, has been destroyed. Of course, the record of the damage must go too fast. Please withdraw the provision on non-transparent aid only from the pan-Hellenic television stations. I think it is an insulting provision for the Greek Parliament, but perhaps for those who want to take advantage of it. He doesn't honor the House. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would just like 30 seconds. In conclusion, I would like to say that the country needs the relaunching of a large-scale national planning plan for infrastructure and transport. You've frozen all the works. In your election programme you said that the continuation of the projects that we had launched would make forty thousand jobs. You've frozen everything. It is a moment when our economy could, with a political and economic strategy, which is really going to respond to the problems, put forward public projects such as to take it into the next generation of transport and technology infrastructures, leave it an increased stock of productivity and create jobs. Of course the public would be collected from the taxable material that would be created. Looks like you guys are another school. Wait till the tar disaster occurs, then we see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u342	We continue with the Deputy of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Markopoulos for five minutes. Mr. Marcopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin where Nikos Pappas left it. Mr. Poppa, there is no historical agreement with the Prespecies. It is a insidious, clearly insidious, harmful, disgusting agreement, which unfortunately in this insidious way also commits the next governments to making it clear. It can't be cleaner. She's a subtle, subtle, and she'll be a subtle one. Ladies and gentlemen, the triumph of demagogues is short-lived. But their works are eternal. That's not what I'm saying. The French poet and writer Charles Peggy said so. Listening to the president of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, that's exactly what I remembered. The ruins in Matty, the lives lost, the disasters in Mandra confirm that the ruins are indeed eternal. The damage is really heavy. You're causing us. Tell us where these damage healing procedures in Eye and Mandra have been in your administration? Nothing happened. The world has condemned you for that, and that is why you have voted against. Why did he vote against you? Why didn't you ease the pain? Because you didn't have a plan. But the triumph of demagogues, as the French poet said, proves to be short, because Alexis Tsipras no longer listens to society. Your demagogic leader who set up a show on the burnt - you will remember the pole of Paul - Durus - now has a very short political life. Everyone knows, they can see it. I hear something about the Petsa list and the media. Tell us, colleagues, you guys from SYRIZA. The list of yours four and a half years and the newspapers published as mushrooms and then closed, when will it be published? I invite our Minister, Mr. Petsa, to bring the list of advertising expenditure four and a half years of governance SYRIZA. There he will truly laugh at every bitter one of the short-lived media, serve specific purposes and then complete their presence in the media area. Today, then, we are not discussing a simple bill. We call on the Greek people to compare in substance. And the people are already doing it. He knows and assesses. And of course he rejects SYRIZA. If Mr. Tsipras had a memorial shed today he had to silence. If he had a gram of strategy - which I very much question - he would know that the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Mandra, Matty: You will always be haunted. They will always be a very important thing: the beacon of your inability. Mandra, Matty: Two crises you've run and screwed up. And you come here and forego those who immediately within hours, within a few days, come to close wounds. Eukleidis Tsakalotos quite rightly - I must repeat that he is a political gentleman - claims that you need to bring down the tons of something that your leader has not done today. Frauds, you know, are not those who rule wisely, who compensate those who are affected by financial aid on time, who postpone or eliminate payments. Those who were ending the ENPIA by a law and an article and who eventually did not, what are they? Those who left Mandra at God's mercy and said, "He also sat a turn in Mandra on our shift" what is it? Those who were calling a new design for the Eye and setting up a show up there? You know, Tsipras had gone at 05:30 in the morning, because he had a cool one in the summer, possibly, with a camera and no residents. What are they? Who are the political crooks? Comparison and conclusions in the world he hears us. So let you be pitiful in words. She needs a contraction. A reconversion, a self-criticism. I will conclude by saying that rare government has been in the position that this government has reached, managed by a sufficient number of crises. Something important to close. The Mitsotakis Government is managing crises. It's very important what I'm saying. He's running a crisis. It did not create a crisis, as the Tsipras - Kammenos - Varoufakis government did. That's it for us not to forget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u344	We are also grateful to Mr Markopoulos for keeping and saving time. May I call the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Socrates Famelos, for five minutes. I'm stressing it, five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that one could comment too much on the extreme right -wing literature that has been developing in the House over the last few hours to cover the deficits of the Mitsotakis government. But it's worth a title. Yes, the SYRIZA government took a crisis that the former governments led the country to and got us out of the crisis. And the Mitsotakis Government is doing everything it can to create at the same time economic, social, health and national crisis. Unfortunately, for the country, things are getting worse and worse. You didn't notice what Euclid Tsakalotus said that you went to pet him. Euclid, Mr. Markopoulos was just talking about you. He said in his post that the Right is not entitled to speak of lies, deceitful and political colluding behind the people's back because its policy is at the expense of society and the people. And she made that clear. But we have to talk about something else today. Unfortunately, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very serious issue in our country's diplomacy. Our country today has been diplomaticly affected because it is absolutely unreliable to take down the Foreign Ministry to reconstruct it, when this statement relates to a meeting of the Foreign Minister of our country, the official diplomatic authority, with the Secretary of State of the United States. To change the statement retrospectively, because of your internal problems, it exposes Greece worldwide and unfortunately creates unreliability with which Greece is invited to go to negotiate on subsequent crucial issues. And I ask you, with this untrustworthyness, will you go to negotiate with Turkey, the provocative and violating Turkey, the reforming Turkey, by changing a statement retrospectively, insulting all the Greek people for their inadequacy and for their seriousness and honesty? With what credibility will Mr Pompeo or the other Foreign Ministers treat you now? So they will have the deep understanding that the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs or did not read the statement or is he simply unharmed - to say it - why are you not serious and counted? Unfortunately, we are awaiting critical accounts in the future, and the government proves that it does not have the ability to manage this criticality, because this shadow theatre - let me - continues in the interior, where the government proves that it does not have sacred and loyal. Because, in a rapid legislation to support the citizens of regions affected, we are finally reducing their incomes, because we are giving them less compensation than their wages, reducing their allowances in relation to other regions and, at the same time, passing on regulations from the back that demonstrates the privileged relationship that this government has with the canalarchs and with a very small elite of entrepreneurs who have made the New Democracy. You are paying bills, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. Your priority is not the ESS, you don't give the money for intensive treatment units, it's not the doctors, you don't hire, it's not schools, it's not our children, you don't bring teachers, you don't give health equipment, only parachute masks you knew to give, it's not even public transport, it's not the people on the next door, you don't help people go to work with protection, not even that you're worth doing. At the same time, while he raises serious questions even the Scientific Service of the Parliament, from the back door you give money not only to canalarchs, but also to some businesses to record tax-frees and thus benefit them and the channels. So there are two doors to benefit from canalarchs. Not to mention the new 'private' arrangement for the clinical chiefs you gave 30 million more instead of giving them to the health system, instead of giving them a test for the world, for the people, for society at least to have analyses, to give them to our children. Do you know that there are schools, parents' associations and guardians in eastern Thessaloniki who have accepted a document to obtain masks, thermometers, protective uniforms, disinfectants and health paper? This is the situation in which you have reached Greek education. That's where you've become the Greek education. Of course, let us make it clear that the paperwork on the channels proves the deadlock of the New Democracy, proves its defeat, proves its deterioration in society, because you are coming to cover this degradation. You're afraid of why society is suffering. The problem is that society is suffering, the problem is that our lives are downgrading socially, economically. The problem is that you are leading us to a deadlock on the national issue, and that should not be allowed to happen. Therefore, we must make it clear that we must now get the rules on channels, the regulations on advertising, the regulations on private clinics and turn this funding into funding for society. And let me say, closing too fast. Unfortunately, there is a very serious issue throughout the technical world and all the owners of small and medium-sized property. With an unbelievable absurdity, the Minister who extended a few months ago, after a celebration, for arbitrary parties, does not now ban the registration of arbitrary persons, while there is still no electronic building identity to become legal acts, and this also confirms the session of the notary clubs that the justice and settlements of the arbitrators will be stopped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have said to you, in formal terms and in an amendment for the second time, that you will decide to extend not for a long time until there is an electronic building identity and since the technical chamber says December 31st, we say 15 January, to have regularity and transparency everywhere, to have no arbitrary effect, to be able to maintain the economic function not only of the technical world, but also of the households who now have to pay ENPI, they must pay a lot of their losses due to your mistakes and delays.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u346	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u347	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let them not pay this fine now, but let them have three months to be solved at the same time, with a reform of the arbitrary ones. Because all you do is sell out some of our own successes, from surplus to energy in the country and degrade by selling and arranged blue children everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u348	You're done, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u349	At least save the issue of the management of real estate and arbitrary property to protect the environment and quality of life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u350	Okay. You've heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u351	Because with your obsession, we are leading to the categorization everywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u352	Please prepare the Step quickly and call Mrs. Silina Skondra for five minutes. We all need to know the Rules of Procedure. It is planned five minutes and five minutes you should take. They call me on the phone, colleagues, who are cut and won't talk while they waited. Hot request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, I represent a county destroyed, and I would ask for a minute's tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u354	No, there will be no tolerance at all. You'll be closed in five minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, I express my warmest sympathy to the families of the three victims in my county. How hard that Friday night was not described. I won't get into that logic since I don't have time. I will say, however, that the greatness of the destruction appeared when the waters retreated and the mud remained. The worst natural disaster in the history of the city and the county. Karditsa was destroyed in a way and along with the countless material damages, rightly, Minister, the concern for tomorrow has been diffused. Five and a half thousand houses have been flooded, and many of these houses have been destroyed. The same is the picture of craftsmen, professionals, traders and all types of businesses. Of the three thousand companies in Carditsa, more than 80% have suffered material damage and more than half of them have reported damage to tens of thousands of euros. The mountain villages changed form and the rivers changed flow. Cabos was flooded and farmers at despair, shortly before the cotton harvest, production was completely lost. For farmers, what can I tell you? They lost herds, beekeepers, farmers, and the list has no end. Huge disasters in the infrastructure and road network of the prefecture, with roads cut, with bridges broken down, with landslides, with railways in disuse. Ladies and gentlemen, I was at the heart of the storm. Mrs Kafantaris is not here to confirm that we were not ashamed and were not afraid on Friday night to be next to the world and in the mud, next to the men of Coreper, the fire department, the police, EKAB, the municipality and the district. I have lived in close proximity to the superhuman efforts they have made to prevent the worst. That night, more than a thousand people were deceived. That is why I would like to express my gratitude to the livelihoods and also to express my congratulations to Mr. Hardalias and his staff who acted as lightning staff and strengthened Carditsa with reptiles, with boats that attempted all night long under the General Coordinator of Thessaly and Central Operations and the District Director of Firefighting Thessaly, who were with us. You'll tell me they did their duty. Sure. But it has been recorded, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that duty is not self-evident. Ladies and gentlemen, the dominant message that our Prime Minister has today decisively sent to the government is that "You are not alone. We are in practice next to you." In addition to the immediate, physical presence in Karditsa of the Prime Minister and almost all of the Ministerial Council within the first three days, there have also been rapid decisions on the restoration of the economic and social fabric for such works and infrastructures that will fortify our region, such as the great flooding that we have claimed for years, the Mousakian dam, announced by the Prime Minister, and I hope that Enipe’s dam will also be announced in The Watchtower. The ministers with coordinated actions went on to grant the municipalities for the reinforcement of floods. The Region of Thessaly operates with infrastructure, with a fleet of machinery and a record of the damage has already begun. Our aim is to bring people's lives back to normality as soon as possible. Today, Mr Stavros brings the relevant bill to Parliament with a specific target. I'm not going into individual articles because of the time. Besides, they've heard. I am transferring you the climate that prevails, Minister, to my county. The citizens now have a look at the government's initiatives. The first measures announced and adopted today are certainly positive. But the time is right now, because the needs are urgent and we must prevent them. Of course, Minister, you mentioned that much has been done with ministerial decisions, but I believe that much more may be needed. In short, I say: A special development plan for the whole prefecture, direct interest-free loans to those affected with the damages of tens or hundreds of thousands of euros from the Deposits and Loans, and then when the compensation procedure is completed to offset after the amount and the balance has been repaid by the owner itself, direct activation of the European Union Solidarity Fund, discharge of one year from HNPY, freezing the debts of taxed, ELPKA, banks and municipalities without increases and the possibility of new arrangements, extension of payment of the arrangements to PPC for farmers as well as suspension of cheques. The rural and entrepreneurial world must immediately return to the production process. Fast and fair compensation for farmers and farmers, including their mechanical equipment and feed. Always remember that Karditsa especially relies exclusively on the rural economy. Improve the compensation framework to include underground, auxiliary and shared storage areas and boiler stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u356	Mrs. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u357	It's a long list. I will not go on, Mr President, since you are fighting me. I will submit to the Practical Memorial of the Carditsa Chamber and a letter from the Municipality of Carditsa with what they consider necessary. Please study them, Minister, and take them into account. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Skondra, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As a member of Carditsa Law, I am a socialist of despair and expectations of the citizens. At the same time, I have to claim what is necessary for my country and of course, where there is a problem, to make it clear to you and to resolve it. I would like to close up to those who are doing here today badly critical, withhold or vote against the bill. It is at least outrageous, ladies and gentlemen, to use cheap opposition rhetoric to hit the government. The final victim becomes the citizens themselves. It gives rise to sadness and shame, but also anger when we think about how you handled catastrophic events in the recent past. You have so much courage to ask these citizens to trust you tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u358	Thank you. I'd like to call SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Ahchioglu, for five minutes. Mr Papadopoulos and the Deputy Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, will then take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a genuine question to the government chairs. Mr Stavoura, because I have listened to you, do you think that Mr. Tsipras in his previous position is at stake, I would really like to ask you whether you think things are going well with regard to the situation that is shaped by the pandemic? Do you think they're going well? Do you think you have control of the situation with your policy? Because the picture we have from society, the real picture that we receive is that things are not going well, that control is lost, if it is not already lost. I'll be specific. You had three jobs to do as government and the Greek society gave you time to do them: Enhance the public health system, guarantee the safe opening of schools and strengthen public transport. Society gave you time to do these three jobs. All three jobs have failed. The public health system works with less permanent staff than last year. He said Mr. Mitsotakis at the ICU that the ICUs are more than a thousand. That's a lie. That's not what's going on. That's a clean lie. And in his report he said that. A few hours later, a ministerial decision was made - I am tabling it in the Minutes - which says that beds should be used from private clinics, in fact, giving twice as much compensation as planned and to God as it is not a question of taking beds, but it is a conciliation with the clinical authorities with twice as much compensation as they want, if they accept the incident. In other words, we leave public health in the midst of a health crisis and to meet the needs of the ERC at the good disposal of the clinicians. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Is that in favour of public and social interest? Is this the control of the situation? Secondly, schools: Do we work or do we not operate with fewer teachers and more students per room than last year? We're working. The schools opened up with twenty - five thousand blanks. You took half of the alternates from last year and you come with three-monthly contracts to substitutes - the financing of this plan, the balls of the quarterly contracts are coming to do this bill - to collect a situation that is not gathered. 75% of the students are currently congested in classes above seventeen in sections that reach all twenty-eight students, mainly in Athens and Thessaloniki. Is that a control of the situation? Is this a good use of the time that society has given you to organise the situation and deal with the pandemic? Public transport: daily we monitor the phenomenon of extreme crowding with the huge risks that this poses for public health. And what's the government's reaction? A leak was made by Mr. Mitsotakis to declare his discontent with Mr. Karamanlis. What's Mr. Mitsotakis? Is that a news commentator? Is that a government? Is it an act of the government that deals with or prevents the situation? Is that in the public interest? Is this a good use of the time that society gave you to organize things? We are also coming to the question of the economy: We have been talking about a brave forward package of measures to support workers, small businesses, household income to prevent situations. What did you do? You have only spent 4.6 billion and I am talking about the real costs. I am tabling the Finance Ministry's report, which shows that the real costs incurred by the State by the end of August to the real economy are no more than 4.6 billion. The 24 billion people heard by Mr. Mitsotakis are stories of others. Not 4,6 billion, therefore, for the real economy, which brings us to the Eurozone's lasting position. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And that is not because there is a shortage, in my opinion, but from a point of view. You have an opinion on how the labour market should be. This view was expressed long before the start of the coronary. The rules for the protection of workers are obstacles to be lifted, the improvement of wages is a problem for the competitiveness of the Greek economy, you have an opinion on the labour market, you have an opinion on small and medium-sized enterprises. It is no coincidence that you are talking about business - zombies, it is no coincidence that the Pissaridis report also describes them as problems for the Greek economy and its path as weights. So there's an opinion about that. And in the face of this situation, what are you doing? We are talking about two hundred thousand jobs lost, unemployment up four units in three months, one out of three small and medium-sized enterprises says it will close in the next few months. This is the report on the economic climate of small businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u360	And with that thought close, Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u361	What are you doing? Do you take any responsibility? Are you reviewing a policy? All we heard from Mr Mitsotakis the other day in his new proclamation is the individual responsibility of the citizens, which - attention - is the heavier the weaker his institution is. It is a great deal of individual responsibility for students, it is a great deal of individual responsibility for refugees. The weaker the institution, the greater individual responsibility. Well, things don't work that way. So you won't even check the situation with the new Pecca list you will be able to check the situation. The window is broken and society is already moving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u362	Thank you. I will call SYRIZA MP Athanasio Papadopoulos for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. The government's draft law does not correspond to the announcements it identifies. The first question: frequent natural disasters are increasingly associated with nature's rape and climate change. However, certain biblical catastrophes from the recent floods in Karditsa, Mouszaki, Argithea, in the wider area of Thessaly, Central and Ionian Islands and older in Mandra, Evia, concern also my region, the Trikali Prefecture in Great Kalyvia, Zarkos, Pineada, Keramidi, Clocoto, and climate change, and now also the coordination of the municipality of Farcadona was completely removed from the municipalities to be supported for the damage they had - therefore, they are related not only to extreme weather phenomena with 'Janu' and climate change, but also to the coordination of policy on prevention, with man-made urban aberrations, criminal building abuses, in the absence of timely necessities of 'Jan' and climate change, as well as with the establishment of an area of regionally populderm, of arable and arable forest management, of arable infrastructure and arable land. The Mozambique dams, Pylis, Neochoritis, Lithiou, Agioneri, Enipea and, of course, the anti-military works on the pineapples of Pineion and Passios - to remind you that in the based bed of Passinos collapsed part of the Centre for Health of Mousaki - they had environmental impact studies, water, irrigation, anti-military protection, and you had to have left the abundant pharaonic plan to divert Acheloos, which, unfortunately, is not only defended by Mr Aggostos, which is defended by Mr Mitsotakis and some of you, thankfully not all. Secondly, the Government of New Democracy and regional and local authorities are even now required to intervene directly in all matters relating to the proper, integrated management of water in each water basin and to finance with national and European resources all the small dams, all the anti-military infrastructure projects contributing to the sustainable management of water resources. Thirdly, citizens in the affected areas with damaged dwellings, infrastructure, businesses, crops, livestock, machinery, warehouses do not feel that there is coordination between the executive state, the 'Blue State' that is built and in coordination with the self-government have done everything to protect and take economic measures that respond to the size of disasters during a period of appalling economic recession. Of course, the government's decisions to compensate 'January' and the floods cannot be ignored by farmers, farmers and livestock farmers as professionals in the primary sector. We note that the House at a plenary meeting must approve exceptional financial aid and direct compensation for the farms affected at 100% of the production delivered on average in the previous three years by the Ministry of Finance at the extraordinary expense of the State Budget reserve - and, of course, the ELGA - to meet the total damage they had and to relaunch their production, to provide all the associated cotton aid. Suspension of tax insurance obligations, HICP for three years and not for six years, integration of the Municipality of Farcadona into the affected municipalities, suspension of auctions, protection of work, etc. It is a question of the fourth, an important point. The Prime Minister's dilemma 'caratina or self-protection' is also in accordance with the Constitution, unrealistic and provocative in the data of the period we live in. The responsibility of the State cannot be replaced by a levelling-up measure which entrusts individual responsibility to every caretaker, to every predator, to every person who ignores the dangers of coronary transmission, and that is not to shield the National Health System, not to take measures for schools, for public transport, for coke. I hope that some of these issues will be included in the final decisions that will be taken as a parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u364	Thank you. Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to express my sincere condolences to the families of people who have been lost by extreme weather. Ladies and gentlemen, the government confirms that it has increased reflexes in crisis management that are transformed into implemented political and substantial institutional interventions. The destructive scenarios remain unclaimed, the citizens do not buy them. The vast majority of Greek citizens judge on rational grounds. It appreciates the measures and interventions that the government has taken since the first day to deal with the consequences of pandemic on the economy and on society. These effects are not a static one. We are obliged to keep up-to-date support measures, to renew them, but also to move on to new interventions to keep economic and business activity alive, to ensure jobs, and to lay down a social protection net for the weak. The government's interventions and measures help to establish a climate of sincerity and trust with the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy because of the pandemic has been in recession and our first and main priority for six months has been to support businesses, workers, those who really need it. To deal with emergency situations which are burdening the scale of the consequences of the pandemic. That is exactly what we are trying to do with the bill that comes to the vote today. Ladies and gentlemen, about a week ago three regions of the country were hit by extreme weather. The government's reflexes were in direct operation, which is reflected in the provisions contained in the first part of the bill. We are moving towards substantial support measures immediately. I am referring to the allocation of EUR 5 000 for the citizens and EUR 8 000 for the businesses affected by the recent theory on 18 and 19 September in Thessaly and in the Prefectures of Fthiotida, Kefalonia, Ithaca, Zakynthos, Lefkada, Corinthia and Evrytania. It goes without saying that these aids are tax-free and inconsistent. The provisions contained in the bill take specific measures to support employment in these areas. By allowing undertakings to suspend their workers' contracts of employment until the damage caused has been recovered and for a period not exceeding three months. For those workers whose contracts are suspended, special allowance shall be provided for. Businesses will not have the right to reduce their staff by denouncing contracts for the period when their employees' contracts of employment have been suspended. So, in very simple terms, there can be no redundancies. There are other support measures, such as: Firstly, the suspension of auctions, but also any enforcement measures for natural and legal persons in the affected areas for one year. Secondly, the prolongation for the payment of the certified debts until 18 March 2021, noting that the extension also relates to the certified debts for HICP in the affected areas, whose clearing house was posted on Friday. The bill includes support measures for citizens who face the consequences of the pandemic. I am thinking of facilitating taxpayers to repay HICP, given the possibility for citizens to pay the first two monthly instalments from HICP six (September and October), until 30 October 2020, without any additional increase. I would like to refer to the provision which establishes incentives for advertising expenditure. It is a provision that is clearly aimed at strengthening economic activity in specific sectors, such as entertainment, media, advertising and digital media. The scope of those that benefit from this arrangement is widened. It is not only about companies that will see the relevant expenditure deductible. It concerns advertising companies, digital media, production companies, the media, the entertainment sector. If some fail to overlook it or try to distort it, they are probably forgetting that there are thousands of workers in these sectors who, in order for them to continue to have work, are companies and businesses in which they are working for economic activity and revenue. The main aim of this regulation is to maintain jobs in these sectors and to stimulate consumption and, therefore, to strengthen trade and increase the turnover of companies, which are particularly affected by the koruna pandemic. According to this, advertising expenditure is deducted from the company's gross income at 100% for the fiscal year 2020 and 60% for the tax year 2021. The only condition is that the advertising costs of the company for the fiscal year 2020 amount to at least the same amount as in 2019. In fact, there is a specific provision for enterprises affected by the pandemic, for which the threshold is reduced to 70% in relation to advertising expenditure in 2019. A similar targeting is also the provision for the suspension of the fee on pay-TV by 30 September 2021. I realise that it is not pleasant for colleagues from the Officerial Representation to come the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and to abolish or reduce taxes imposed by them as government. However, we have at the heart of our policy to reduce taxes. I would remind you that in order to strengthen tourism and focus we had moved to reduce VAT to 13% in transport, cinema tickets and non-alcoholic drinks, such as coffee and refreshments, juices and tea served in the catering industry by 31 October 2020. The provision contained in this draft law extends the validity of this measure until 30 April 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is moving in two directions: we want to keep business alive, keep jobs, but also to support those who really need it. At the same time, however, we are planning the next day to return to high and sustainable growth. This is a constant attempt, the conditions in which we live will require further intervention. It is true that the Prime Minister's commitment that we will take all the measures necessary to support our real economy and our economically weaker fellow humans. Along with the health dimension in the management of pandemic, there is the continuity of life, of economic activity. From this adventure, we all want to go out together. Healthy and strong. The Prime Minister is giving the tone to this effort. He trusts citizens, is addressed to them honestly. This relationship of confidence is strong and two-way, shows the way for the future, to return the country to high growth in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, too. I will give the floor to the MEP of the Change Movement, Mrs. Evangelia Ligoli, for five minutes strictly. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Armalene will take the floor. I think then there won't be any more time left. Maybe he's staying for Mr. Economou. Take note of the fact that two Heads of State spoke, which is why the calculation has escaped, despite the fact that at first speakers made some misuse of time. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the same spectators' work once again, unfortunately! Here the world is burning, our place is destroyed, my place is destroyed, and you are swinging your fingers on each other. Once again in the exact same work! Unfortunately, today you mixed everything up. You mixed Macedonian on the one hand, the asshole on the other hand, the secret diplomacy, the other Eye and Mandra remembered, with a "garnish", a "essence", I would say, from channels and canalarchs again. Because she always has a special electoral interest, you see. Will you never stop this competition for who will be the worst and who has in the worst way managed by you two competitors the situation of the crisis? Today they hear you in Carditsa, they hear you in Evia, Kefalonia. They're listening to you in Farsala. And you do not understand the place and what you say and what many of you refer to. And I'm sorry to say it publicly from the Step of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, these people who are at the moment tempting at the moment have lost people - four lives have been lost - they have lost their property, their homes, their crops, they have lost their lives themselves. They are therefore expected by the Greek Parliament and by all the representatives, in principle, and also by the Members, secondly, to listen to the long-term plan, the long-term, long-term plan, for reconstruction and reconstruction. Did they hear that today? Unfortunately, no. It is time for responsibility and we must stand with a great soul towards these people who are hurting, on the one hand, without populism. I'm not going to start mentioning the names of the people I've met in the last ten days. I think it's too small and too small. But I'll say it's time to let justice do its job. That is all I will say about responsibilities. He's already intervened with the D.A. of Carditsa. I think that's all on its own. If we leave justice free and do not do what we have seen from time to time, I think that the responsibilities will be attributed, if they exist, as they should be. Is society at the moment of Carditsa, the Farsalon and all the regions affected which are waiting for the government's relief measures, Ministers? We were not conceived either by the Prime Minister or by the Chief of Officer's Representation to come to Farshalla, they did not agree to see us in person. We were probably very small, but with a very great disaster, I assure you. Only our Chief, the President of the Change Movement, had the sensitivity to make a stand and debate with the institutions in Farshalla, to find out for themselves what is happening in the region. In simple words, well, Cabos is bleeding. The vultures are in. People can't get out of the fields. A lot of them sleep on the tractors. They have no homes, no crops, no incomes, and this is the year waiting for them. Winter is coming. It is a matter of health, which no one wants to touch. We went to Palama the other day, ladies and gentlemen, and found dead animals around the streets. Dead. We saw them, we touched them. What about that? The collection of animals in the countryside, with well-prepared wells, with the risk of new diseases, with warm temperatures, which keep them well in Cabo, together with the ever-existent threat of COVID -19, and do we really think that we have an integrated plan for the restoration of Thessaly to normal life? The Change Movement made concrete proposals with regard to immediate relief measures, but also with regard to the individualisation of damages, even more on farms, businesses, workers. You, of course, have always said - I have heard you three - four times that you are trying to put an end to the decomposition of the region after the disaster. This does not mean, however, that you have an automatic and real reconstructing plan. The big bet is the next day for the Farshalla, Carditsa, the Mouzaki, the Wisdom. What are you doing about it, and what have you said about it? What have you given for this? How do you see it? Or have you invested the shock with a new shock? What are you doing at work? Extraordinary and urgent work suspension measures with the EUR 534? Are you investing in the disaster? But no matter how much you hide, you look. You don't understand that? In addition, with regard to undertakings which are suspended after natural destruction horizontal measure to all undertakings? Can that stand? I shall conclude only with the amendment tabled by the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u368	We don't have time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u369	I shall finish, Mr President, coming down. The regional media, such as literature, sites, newspapers, television and so on, have 25% -26% audience, according to statistical studies, and you give 2%! Finally, transparency and clarity and not investment in the disaster again to create your own support relationships. People share, "do not behave like the "Jan" with two faces and one really bad".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u370	The reason for this is that, as I said - with Mr Economou for exactly five minutes. And then Minister Staikoras will close the meeting - he told me he wanted five to six minutes - and we will go to the vote. I am sorry - I said this early - that parliamentary scrutiny should begin at 20.00, because this summit is being completed and 15 Members are therefore waiting for questions, because if they do not take place this evening, they will be lost. And there will be fifteen ministers who will answer. I don't know if some of them coincide. I'd announced it beforehand. I have asked, since I went to the Chair, that my colleagues should be appalled next year. There's nothing else I can do. Mr. Symblene has the floor for five minutes strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the enormous natural and economic disaster which struck Karditsa, Farsala, as my colleague said earlier, but also Kefalonia, Ithaca, Zakynthos and other regions, is not being paid and supplemented by any aid, as much as the aspirins that the government has taken. I am not analyzing the measures, many colleagues have analysed them before. The worst thing, however, is that the package of measures launched since March to deal with the pandemic tends to be permanentized for every reason. The inclusion of workers in all the flooding areas in the employment suspension scheme and the permanentisation of the EUR 534 compensation per month is essentially the payment and reintroduction of the underpaid wage for workers. At the same time, the minimum aid for self-employed, self-employed and small businesses with the repayable advance, but also the fixed aid of 5,000 and 8 000 cannot deal with the extent of the damage that is cumulative and with the economic crisis that has arisen from the pandemic. With regard to VAT and its extension up to 30-4-2021 it is also a semimeter. We in our programme have had a permanent reduction in VAT on the focus from 13% to 11%, and as far as the current crisis is concerned, we have proposed that it should go to 6% as long as the crisis lasts. And of course I'm going to give you a parentheses here. You have voted on an amendment to exemption from the ETUC for small islands under a thousand hundred inhabitants. I do not understand, Mr. Finance Ministers, who has excluded the small islands of the Cyclades from this arrangement? I invite you to think about it and bring it back. The cost is too small. It must be extended to seven other, eight islands of the Cyclades that are under the thousands of inhabitants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u372	And the Scorpion?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u373	Scorpius isn't in the Cyclades.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u374	Yeah, but it's a small island.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u375	Everywhere, in all the islands under a thousand inhabitants. We have proposed two amendments. It was on our schedule, as in our programme to reduce income tax on islands under three thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u376	Mr. Symphony, don't you talk about HIS!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u377	What is this, Minister? What do you say, we won't talk about HIS! If you want, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u378	All right, Mr. Vesyropoulos, we voted before the elections to reduce VAT in two instalments for incomes, for low values. You have introduced VAT reduction in values of more than a million and involved fourteen thousand natural persons. That's the ones you wanted to reinforce. Those who are of high values and not small and medium-sized. With regard to Article 11 and the new list of Petsa, the government has shown that it has very close hands with regard to workers and small businesses. It strengthens the dropper and the reinforcements arrive very late, while you have a great deal of simplicity to your powerful friends such as canalarchs, who not only took the lion's share from the Petsa list, but the payment for their licensing was suspended. And I will also tell you about other strong friends like the 'FRAPORT'. You suspended it since May the due amount of EUR 44 million. So you are bringing today a new charismatic advertising campaign arrangement from the public health media that should be completely free of charge. In fact, the new list of Petsa invokes the case (c) paragraph 2 of Article 32 of Law 4412/2016. What's he saying there? I'll read to you exactly what he says. ‘In so far as is strictly necessary if, due to an urgent need arising from events unforeseeable to the contracting authority, it is not possible to comply with the deadlines laid down for open, restricted or competitive negotiated procedures, the circumstances invoked by the contracting authorities in order to justify the urgent need must in no case result from their own responsibility’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Is it not your responsibility to predict - and you had predicted - the range and length of the pandemic, and now suddenly you think this is an urgent and unpredictable need to institutionalise the Pecha list again? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, are you aware that you are building a North Korean model update and indeed within the European Union? Do you understand that? That's what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u379	I should like to invite the last colleague, Mr Ioannis Economou, to the Stepma, the New Democracy MEP, who even facilitates the process. But you will allow me to read the names of the Members who wanted to speak for the law, but they cannot because of the limitation of time. It is Mr. Theodoros Dritsas by SYRIZA, Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Paliura from the New Democracy, MP of the affected area, from Thessaly, Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis, Mrs. Diamanto Manolakos, Mr. George Stylios, who is from a prefecture affected by the theory, Mr. Christos Spirtzis, Mr. Alexandros Meikopoulou, Mrs.Olympia Telioridou, Mr. Vasilios Spanakis, Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Mrs. Anastasia Anagnostopoulou, Mr. Xenophofos Baralikos and Mr. The Members present here can give their speech to the Minutes in order to be included in the Minutes of today's sitting, if they of course want it. And I'll take the blame.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u380	What am I supposed to do without a manuscript?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u381	I said if they wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's awkward and desperate attempt to prove that the government does not manage the crises that the country is going through properly has continued in the debate as well. The reality is that the country is in the ambiguity of multiple crises and instead of a responsible opposition, what we have is an alliance with reality and truth. In the health field, they try to tell us that things are worse than those who had an eighty - eighty - and - two - and - a - two - a - a - two - a - a - a - two - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a We have tripled, we are approaching the European average, when on their days it was below half the European average. They speak of staff shortages, while there are six and a half thousand nurses and medical staff already in the health system, and new recruitments are planned. In trying to limit the financial footprint of the pandemic, something very smart has been discovered since the beginning of the crisis and in the programs they announced, as well as in the presence of the Chief of Officerial Response in Thessaloniki. They take measures, philosophy, the direction of measures announced by the government to deal with the crisis and simply add some millions with the convenience of SYRIZA philosophy on economic policy. In foreign policy we have heard today heavy words about the supposed irresponsibleness and lightness of Greek foreign policy, the Greek foreign policy, which I recall has achieved the results of delimiting the EEZ with Egypt and Italy, and has succeeded in persuading the whole world to build alliances on Turkey's provoking both the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. It does the same in the articles of today's bill, and in the philosophy of strengthening the affected areas, the people from the regions hit by 'Janus', the people who saw the bad weather destroying their shops, their homes, their businesses and agricultural production. It is about continuing an effort that refuses to see reality. What was the reality, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen? The reality was that from the very first moment, with the Prime Minister's command, governmental stadiums were found in all the affected areas. From the first moment it was clear that there will be the greatest possible support, with tools and instruments in the Greek legal and institutional arsenal, and that were then implemented for Eye, Mandra and the disasters in Evia. So we have now come to vote on this bill in his first four articles with predictions, with predictions and laws that will strengthen people who have suffered damage. And seriously. Beyond the excuses and criticisms of counter-population, what must be done, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is to run quickly. At the speed, in the credibility of what we have committed, of what the Prime Minister himself told Carditsa where he walked and spoke with people, of what was announced by ministerial lips for all the regions affected, the credibility of not just the government - this is judged every day - but also the credibility of the state. It is necessary for the money we have said to be provided quickly and in good time. It's necessary that everything the world deserves to get it. Let us make it clear and make it clear that sources of funding are not just one. I have heard the hypocritical - let me describe - an anguish of various colleagues from the opposition. They asked: "And the tires that have been destroyed, how will they be compensated?" They'll be compensated for by the PSEA and you must know that. ‘The goods inside the stores and the packages from which they will be compensated’. They will be compensated by the funds of the Ministry of Interior which have already been announced and the funds of the Ministry of Development. So in your attempt to entreat with reality and not accept the truth, whether you do not know, as you should have done, or hide for opposition reasons that do not have any meaning and meaning when others have lost their livelihood, their property, sources of funding that really exist and will give the world the greatest possible relief that is imposed and which we can cover at this point in time. I'm closing up saying this. I pointed out, Minister, the bet and the need for speed of compensation, the good coordination that needs to be done. Because various operators from, I would say, of goodwill and good will in the region are calling on the citizens to declare their damage and records there. We need to avoid any mix-up there. Let me say two things. Firstly, there are indeed some limited fields where there are major damages due to the disaster. The destruction of drilling for example suffered by several farmers in the Sperm valley, under Lygaria, in Zelethos, in various areas of Fthiotida. It is an issue that there is no framework, because so far we have not been called upon to deal with it in order to compensate them. The co-responsible Ministries and the Ministry of Rural Development and the ELGA and the Ministry of Finance must be exhausted in order to find resources and to compensate for this loss of drilling and machinery. I conclude, Mr President, by saying the last thing that is most important - it is not about today's bill, I have had the opportunity to say it again again in my previous position - that the capital of counter-munition must come back to news, race, and be a central government priority. Money is available, resources have been announced and disbursed. We need to reconstruct the mechanisms and the framework with the central government in an even more coordinated and leading role in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, too. And we are closing the procedure today to proceed to the vote with the position of the Minister, Mr Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u385	We also have an observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u386	What remark?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u387	We have asked ourselves in particular, because today is a very sensitive and crucial issue for thousands of people, for the many amendments that are made in many articles. As the Minister is doing here now with the legislative improvements that break his retrospective interventions and place them in the draft law in a more appropriate legal provision, we want the same thing to be done in the amendments, in the regulations that we are to vote on. Because we are called upon to vote against an amendment because we disagree with an article or otherwise. It doesn't matter. It is important, however, to exclude the possibility for the citizen to know what we are doing. They will tell us after this amendment you did not vote for it, and we have been put forward. Why does the government in this not help the House to strengthen certain regulations by means of its vote? There's still time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u388	We can't do this right now. It's shared the inflammation of the bill. Now, from there on, the government hears them and takes note of the words you have said. Minister, you have the floor to close the present procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank all of my fellow Members for their positions today and for some substantial points they have made to help the government - I would say very well - implement a series of actions and initiatives to alleviate our compatriots. I would like to make a few points about what I have heard since my first position. He asked SYRIZA's MEP, who's away at the moment, so I'm not saying names: "We're doing good? Are you satisfied?’ Obviously, no Minister of Finance could be satisfied when the country is in a deep recession when wealth at the end of the year will be less than last year. So I couldn't be satisfied, to be satisfied when the country is in recession. ‘Are you checking the situation?’. The answer here is yes. The situation is controlled and controlled both in the health field and in the field of the economy. We have heard and tabled concrete figures that show that the health situation is controlled in terms of ICUs and recruitments, in education - I have given specific features - and in the economy, in terms of volume, quality and quantity of measures, budgetary measures and liquidity support measures. You know, sometimes it's not if the government thinks it's controlling the situation and the opposition thinks it doesn't control the situation. It is what the third parties say, what the markets say, what the institutions say. The country has been under enhanced supervision since the summer of 2018 and the institutions in the latest assessment report have welcomed how the government manages the health crisis. This does not mean that we are triumphant, I have stressed it from the outset, but that we are not in danger. And if I could testify for the Minutes - I have said so several times in public - in the first half of 2020, the country, unfortunately, has a downturn of 8%. The average European term, with the provisional data from ELSTAT we have, is 9% and the countries of the south are 9.3% of Portugal, 11.7% of Italy, 12.3% of France, 13.1% of Spain. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This means, along with the fact that the European Commission has revised its assessment of the country, that it is rather good for this government to reduce the adverse economic and social consequences of pandemic. The country will enter - and it is - a deep recession. Hopefully, we look forward to and everyone think there will be a strong recovery in 2021. This will be reflected in the draft state budget next week and we are here to take further measures. I hear the opposition saying: but the state budget has 4,6 billion spending. So the measures you've taken are 4.6 billion. You will allow me, without wanting to teach public finances in here, that, first of all, apart from the state budget, there is the general government, so there are losses of revenue and expenditure in the general government rather than in the state budget. Secondly, a SYRIZA colleague is coming and says: Expenditure is 4.6 billion, so you are taking measures of 4.6 billion. I would like to ask the following question: reducing VAT on transport, taxi, buses and coffee? Expenditure? Apparently it's a loss of revenue. Is that a measure? You're losing tax revenue. It's not an expense. Is the reduction or zeroing of the advance tax income or expenditure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u390	How far has that come?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Loverdos, this year companies will pay EUR 1.56 billion. Last year they paid $3.5 billion. This means that we have helped very small entrepreneurship, medium and large, reducing taxation by EUR 2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u392	Recruitment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u393	Wait a minute. You're in a hurry. What does liquidity mean? Is the company's tax reduction at 24% liquidity?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u394	He said parole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u395	I haven't been on parole yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u396	About the advance...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u397	Don't mess it up. I have spoken about the reduction or zeroing of the advance tax. This, together with the reduction in corporate taxation to 24% - permanent reduction in taxation by the current government - has led to a loss of public revenue of EUR 2 billion, but to a strengthening of entrepreneurship, small, medium-sized and large, of EUR 2 billion. Besides, it's the suspensions, which are also a measure. Suspend what does it mean? Indeed, you're not paying today, you're going to pay sometime in the future. But who's gonna pay the pensions today? They don't throw money out of the sky. Obviously you have to have the cash available to cover the loss of revenue in order to pay the pensions for this month and a number of measures. But not to analyse them in the Minutes on page 33 of the European Commission. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] According to the European Commission, the government's measures until July 2020 were EUR 20.4 billion. Our estimates are that we will exceed EUR 24 billion by the end of the year. Small remote islands. We did, in fact, make a political targeting. Small remote islands. No auction, no criteria. I have heard fellow Members - and I have to say that I have been anxious to hear from my colleagues in the government majority - about various islands in Greece. But this is where we set some criteria: small remote islands. And I would like you to see the provision and point out that the way it was written by the Ministry of Finance is not for twenty-eight islands. Implementation is now seen in twenty-eight islands. It's for all the small remote islands. Hold that. For all the small fart islands. Today he finds an app to twenty-eight islands, where we have found that there is real estate, that pays ENPIA. In the future, we don't know what's going to happen. So we're motivating all the small remote islands. And I come to the last point. I'll say it quite simply. I think that several colleagues have said so, but I want to make it clear. I often hear colleagues from the Opposition saying: With EUR 5 000 and EUR 8 000 neither the household nor the business is saved. That's true. But we didn't say five thousand and eight thousand. We come here and say that we bring a framework of measures to support the household and business. For example, we have legislated that a natural person in these geographical areas, in the twenty municipalities that have been demarcated, will not pay his tax obligations for six months, will not pay HPAI, will not pay income tax for six months, will not have auctions, its credit obligations will be suspended. So there will be no need, in fact, to have an outflow of funds for an insurance fund, for banks, for tax. We have already given an advance of 8 million to the Ministry of Interior to start paying as soon as possible the 600 euros and we come in and say in the law provision that directly through the Ministry of Digital Reform electronic platform 5 thousand or 8 thousand will be paid. One is added to the other. We come and say, through a ministerial decision that I have mentioned, that an advance tax will be paid. I repeat the provision: in exceptional cases where significant and extensive damages are observed in both the number of firms affected and the size of the disaster, an advance may be provided against the total amount of the grant. And how is that going to work out practically? The region will submit every 15 days to the relevant Directorate of the Ministry of Finance of the affected enterprises for which registration and assessment have been completed. The rate of advance payment and the method of disbursement will be determined by a CFS and there will be specific supporting documents in order to provide the advance. The ELGA now records all the damage. Mr Economou spoke of damages which are currently not compensated by the ELGA. They will, however, be recorded by the ELGA, in order to compensate themselves in other ways, through the Public Investment Programme and, as we hope, through the Solidarity Fund. Therefore, suspensions of tax obligations, suspensions of debt obligations, auction suspensions, EUR 600, EUR 5 000, EUR 8 000, ELGA and the ministerial decision to make an advance is the package of measures that are cumulative, combined, so that we can be close to the citizen who is affected as soon as possible. That's the design. And I said publicly, in this House, that we have the resources to cover all the needs and all the damages which will prove to be coming to the Ministry of Finance for compensation. Finally, I should like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. In any case, some Members who have signed them, while they have been put here, have not even pointed them out. All ministerial amendments are accepted. As far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, I should like to repeat this because I have heard it from two colleagues: the procedure for financing damage from the Solidarity Fund has begun. But you know that the Solidarity Fund pays through specific procedures and after a reasonable period of time. It is likely that everything will not be eligible, nor do we know the absolute amount of resources that we receive. Therefore, we are not waiting today to move forward - regardless of whether we have sent for these procedures - resources from the Solidarity Fund procedures. We pay directly from the Public Investment Programme and then we receive support from the Solidarity Fund on the basis of the provisions and the relevant regulation. That's what we did and that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u398	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is closed: “Urgent arrangements to deal with the catastrophic consequences of the Mediterranean Cyclone “Jan”, further measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic and other urgent provisions”. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, thirteen articles, four amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And of course, you must make sure that you have voted on all the areas of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u399	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u400	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u401	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent arrangements to deal with the catastrophic consequences of the Mediterranean cyclone ‘Januan’, further measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic and other urgent provisions’ were accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u402	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u403	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S1-commons.u404	With the consent of the House at 20.00 the sitting is closed for 20.05, that is to say in a few minutes, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions.
