ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before entering the debate today's topical and urgent debate, however, let me inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 30 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 171/17-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on "Blue populations in the pandemic: Targeted prevention and equal care". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 182/22-11-2020 topical question by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Exclusion of new businesses from a repayable advance". 3. The 189/23-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Greek Prime Minister, at the per capita health expenditure. The OECD shall expose the Government.’ B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 178/19-11-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Danish financing agreement for the Greek State's contribution by the European Investment Bank (EIB) to the construction of the new international airport and the renewal of the area of the state airport of Heraklion - Nikos Kazantzakis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 184/22-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Criminal clipping the coronary control algorithm at the gates of entry". 3. The 180/20-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Dimitrios Vitsa to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The silence of the government in the matter of workers of Greek Shipyards S.A. (GENA)’. 4. The 179/20-11-2020 topical question by MP 2 West Attica of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on "Questions about the EVA algorithm used in opening the country to tourism". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 686/19-10-20 asked by SYRIZA's MP, Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Health, on "Serious deficiencies in the field of EKAB in the Law of Elias, in the midst of the new outbreak of COVID -19". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 857/21-10-2020 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Request for children for immediate prescription of the COVID test -19 - Responsible costs for the average Greek family". 3. The question by No 445/13-10-2020 asked by SYRIZA's MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious deficiencies in the CIVID-19 reference hospital of Agrinio. Need to conduct quick tracking." 4. The question under number 527/109/14-10-2020 and the request for Documents to be lodged by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Inadmissible indifference for damage caused by restrictive measures to producers of aromatic plants'. 5. The question by No 475/13-10-2020 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Procedures for employers' arbitrariness with regard to workers in the field of couriers, couriers and external agents". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs Parliament in his letter of 26 November 2020 that he refers to the Greek Parliament, the President's Special Secretariat, the timely questions that will be discussed today in the order to be mentioned, the honourable Member and the Minister responsible. He concludes: "Please take the appropriate steps to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members of the proceedings." We will begin with the debate of the third under number 193/23-11-2020 on the second time question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The protection of the historical location of the Cantanos IP Chania and the dangers of the expansion of the quarry zone in the region". Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you very much. Minister, we are returning to our question from 9 June 2020 on the operation of the Cantanos quarry Chania. There a number of irregularities which serve exclusively the business interests of the holding company against the protection of the historical location of Cantano have been detected. More specifically: First, for a number of administrative actions - approvals given by the decentralised administration and the Region of Crete for the expansion of the quartz zone in the region, no prior information was given to the competent services of the Ministry of Culture, although the declared historical site is directly affected. In fact, the above decisions absolve the final decision of the Council of State of 2016 which rejected the company's request to cancel the decision of the Ministry of Culture in 2010, which said, among other things, that this place is a historic one because it is a complex work of man and nature and is a unique testimony to the destruction of Cantanus during World War II. Secondly, between the areas used by the company are seven areas of total area of 38,41 acres previously declared refreshable and declassified for the operation of the quarry. For any of the above reafforestation operations, there is no decision by the Ministry of Culture, although two of these areas of a total area of ten acres are located within the limits of the designated historical site, while all of the licensed mining area and the other land used are located in the surrounding area of the historical site and have direct visual contact with it. Thirdly, with an information act adopted after the adoption of the seven reafforestation operations mentioned above, the Forests Department of Chania grants an individual holding to the "Selinos Department of Anonymous" upon payment of the entire area and between them and the 10,276 acres from the historic site. Fourthly, it is also of particular importance that the amendment in 2018 of GDP, a decision approving environmental conditions, 2013 and the concession to the company part of the declared historic site. Fifthly, the amendment of the schedule for the restoration of the former reservoirs, transferred from 2028 to 2048, is clearly prejudicial to the protection of the historic site. These decisions and designs, which are a first-sized scandal, are involved in this process and legal and natural persons. The people's reactions are too long and long and I am even presenting in the Minutes the letter of protest of five hundred and sixty-three signatures of residents-persons, sent to all the services involved and the institutions present and to you, to the Ministry of Culture on 16 July 2020. Perhaps not to you, it seems to me that you still weren't Minister at the time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] These methods serve exclusively the business interests of the company "Cantanos Latakio" and have nothing to do with the needs of the region, the needs of the people, the potential of the region and the naturality of the region. And of course, all this activity of the company, of natural and legal persons, exploits the anti-grassroots and anti-environmental arsenal of governments, which remains intact and gives land and water to investors. So we ask you, Minister, what the Government intends to do to protect the historical location of the Cantanos canyon in Chania from the operation and expansion of the existing quarry and the complete and rapid restoration of the historic site that has been affected. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. The Minister has the floor for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President, for the timely question. The truth is, it's a complex matter. So I say to you that according to the information I have from the services of the Ministry of Culture, no administrative action has come to their attention to the extension of the designated quarry area of Cantano. The licensed quartz mining site of the company "Selinos Latium S.A." remains in the area of about sixty thousand square meters, fifty nine thousand nine hundred ninety-eight, as approved by the Ministerial Decision of October 2015. Also, according to the reply of the Ministry of the Environment, no extension of the mining or quarrying zone has been approved by the Decentralised Administration of Crete. The approvals issued and to which you refer relate to the concession of refreshable areas for use by the company ‘Selinos Region’ following the 2018 amending GDP. In particular, in December 2018, it was approved by the Decentralised Administration of Crete, without prior information and advice of the relevant Council of the Ministry of Culture, to amend the environmental conditions set out in the 2013 Decision. This amendment concerned the extension of the timeframe of the activity and the rehabilitation work until 2048, which you also pointed out. In addition, the approval included the granting to the company of seven former reservoirs located within the quarry area of a total area of thirty-eight thousand fourteen hundred square metres. The Service of New Monuments of Crete has been aware of this data only in 2020 - that is to say, since 2018 - when considering the new amending environmental impact study for the integration of new activities into the quarry space. According to this approval, the seven spaces have been declassified by reservoirs in order to be used for the operation of the quarries as storage areas for materials, access and parking of the power-driven equipment. Two of these areas, B2 and B3, are located within the limits of the designated historical site and one, B1, in the immediate surroundings of the historical site with direct visual contact. It is clear that the previous government has not taken into account the protection regime at all. Regarding the operation of the quarry, I would clarify that the environmental impact study was approved by the Ministry of Culture in October 2015, while the legalisation of existing installations was approved in 2016. All this is done on the SYRIZA government. It should be noted that the area operated quarries before the historic site was declared in 2010, resulting in damage to materials accumulation and heavy-duty vehicle traffic in the part of the road marked as a historic site. The decision of 2015 included the condition that the company should submit a plan to restore the affected part to the curve of the historic road and then implement the project in question, but nothing has been done so far. Today the interest of the Ministry of Culture in restoring the historic site is confirmed by the fact that this study on road restoration was adopted on 12 March 2020, after the opinion of the Local Council of Monuments of Crete. The Ministry's services are in contact right now - with tensions I have to say - with the company, because of the great and costly work to carry out the necessary work. But the company is obliged, and that is what the Ministry of Culture is trying to enforce, to carry out this work. In addition, on 1 October the Central Council of Modern Monuments examined the second amendment of the environmental impact study submitted in 2019 and related to the installation of a waste recycling plant, excavations, construction, demolition, plant for the production of ready-made concrete and a composting plant. According to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture and his President-in-Office - I am referring to the opinion that the act has not yet been adopted by the relevant Director-General - he gave a unanimous opinion in favour of the adoption of this study, but on two basic conditions. The first condition is to include all actions and actions for the immediate and two-year implementation of this rehabilitation study of the affected part of the site and not 2048. In other words, we've been putting two years so we don't get to 2048. The second condition is to restore, in cooperation with the competent bodies, the natural landscape in the areas directly linked to the historic site. It is specified that these are the three of the seven zones which, in accordance with the 2018 Decentralised Administration Decision, were declassified from reservoirs and were assigned to the company. By adopting the decision to be taken, based on the opinion of the Council, we believe that the uncertainties of the previous years will be healed, as the two conditions that were mainly set do not change the restoration time in 2048, as was included in the decision of the Decentralised Administration of Crete. In addition, the restoration of the monument and the natural landscape is ensured. The implementation of the project and the projects to be carried out will lead precisely to the restoration of the degradation and the natural and cultural landscape.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Indeed, Minister, there is a long list of historical events, but full of scandalous irregularities. I should like to say a few words about what you said in relation to the complexity of the problem, that this historic road was mainly in use until the beginning of the 1970s. At that time, a small quarry was created and in 1983 the 3 hundred forty - seven thousand eight hundred and ninety - three acres were defined. In 2002 the environmental conditions were adopted for the exploitation of about 59.6 acres and in 2005, with the molding of forest characteristics, the Greek State leased the entire lato-region to a private person, with an obligation to extend the quarry to three hundred and seven acres, as was done in 2006, which led to the abolition of this historic road. These actions were prevented thanks to the struggle and strong resistance of the local residents and with the support of citizens from various regions of Crete and from the whole country. In spite of all the reactions, the company made over-use and destruction of the canyon during the three years 2006-2009, and the consequence of these illegal operations was the temporary closure of the quarries in 2009 by decision of the mines in southern Greece. In 2013, the environmental conditions of the quarry were renewed for the fifty-nine acres approved by the Ministry of Culture in 2015, as you rightly said, with the logic of restoring the already affected area until 2028 and the immediate restoration of the stone road by the company that had then destroyed it. Since then, however, it has been continually postponed by the company. However, since then, the services of the Forest Service and the decentralised administration have made decisions in favour of the company, overlooking the historical location and the Ministry of Culture. I told you in my prototype. In 2018, the law of Stathakis of SYRIZA lifted the refreshing character of thirty-eight acres and granted to the company and the modification of the environmental impact study extended the operation of the quarry from 2028 to 2048. On 6 May 2020 and in the middle of a quarantine - something that, as you said, the Office of Modern Monuments of Crete with its document of 30 September 2020 - the Committee on the Environment of the Region of Crete gave a favourable opinion on the installation of cement safety plants and recycling of building materials and inert materials. A few days later, May 2020, the Regional Council of Crete agreed with its decision on cleaning and expansion of the quarries in the Regional Unit of Chania, in which he consciously concealed the decision of the Ministry of Culture and the Council of State on the historic location in the Cantano gorge. At a next meeting of the Regional Council on 11 August 2020, the People's Coalition, in which I participate and happen to be a regional consultant, called for a political decision to be taken to put an end to any extension plans. The request, Minister, is not to close the quarry but not to expand. The majority of the regional council - and today, because it is the company itself - has stubbornly refused to put the issue on the agenda. He refused to vote and to take a decision and even refused to give the floor to municipal councillors of the Municipality of Cantanos. The re-reaction of residents, their actions and the publicity of the subject therefore forced the services to consult the Central Council of Modern Monuments on the new environmental impact study. The discussion on the Central Council took place early in October 2020 and the decision of the Ministry of Culture is expected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u7	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u8	Yes, I will, Mr President. We find that the decentralised administration, to which the Forest Directorate of Chania belongs, does not involve the services of the Ministry of Culture in its actions for the quarry, while it is fully aware that this quarry is active close to the historic site. The company, assisted by the services of the decentralised and the majority of the regional council, attempts a step-by-step, even with obvious lies, to establish and expand its presence in the historical Cantano gorge and turn it permanently and unreturnably into a heavy mining industrial area. We, Minister, put the question - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that the seven reafforestation operations relating to land must be immediately withdrawn either within or near the declared historical site, which were adopted in breach of law and without the approval of the Ministry of Culture. Secondly, we call for the immediate amendment of the 2018 GNI of the company which was issued in breach of Article 10 to remove the concession to the company part of the declared historical site and restore the operation of the quarry in the 2028 horizon, for which there is approval of the Ministry of Culture. Thirdly, we call for it to be made clear in every way to decentralised administration and to any other competent authority that no authorisation can be issued without precedent for the approval of the Ministry of Culture under Article 10 of Law 3028/2002, which must be recorded on them with a penalty of nullity and to make it clear that any act adopted in the absence of the opinion of the Ministry of Culture is invalid. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Pinheiro, you and I are aware of the complexity of this issue, since the competent services in question often carry out acts which are incompatible with the responsibilities of the other departments, which they must take into account, as is the case with the services of the Ministry of Culture. As you can see, the lifting of the decision to grant resurrected land is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, it cannot be done by the Ministry of Culture. What the Ministry can do and does it are the two opinions, the first of the Local Council of Crete and the second of the Central Council of New Monuments, and we do not intend to retreat. I also said in my prology that there are tensions between the agency and the company's responsibilities to restore the historic road. It is a project that costs and is relatively difficult. But that is something that needs to be done and the Ministry's services are there, present, to ensure that. When we described the so-called 'German Way' in 2010 as the 'German Way', this was first because it was the 'theatre' of the Cretan fights against the Germans in World War II, but also because the project itself - the technical project - has a great deal of technical and potential for construction of the early 20th century. The Ministry of Culture, its services and we therefore want to keep the road as unchanged as it is where it was destroyed - immediately or indirectly - in the best way possible and within a short period of time. That is why the Central Council of New Monuments could not accept in 2048 as the year of restoration and put it two years, that is until the end of 2022, that the road should be restored. The services will be present, we'll watch it. We are also interested in the decision to sign as a historic place to be kept and not to be violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. The two following topical questions, namely the first with number 173/18-11-2020, the first question of the Member of Parliament of the New Democracy Parliament, Spilios Lebanese to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: 'Re-establishment of the Department of Cultural Environment and New Technologies in Agrinio' and the third with number 172/17-11-2020, the third question of the first cycle of the Member of the Istanbul Parliament of the Change Movement Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Evolutions in the establishment of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and Youth Technologies of the University of Patras based in Agrinio', which will be discussed at the same time, because the same thing is not affected, according to the Rules of Procedure, as would be a separate item in the Rules of Procedure, as it would be. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, we would also like to see your tolerance and the time that Mr Synthrakis had, who spoke four and six minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u13	There will always be tolerance. As you know, no President-in-Office can cut speakers in their speech. Okay, now there's no question. You saw, for example, now that the Minister, while having three minutes of dentistry, spoke two and a half minutes. Okay, we don't put them in molds now, Alas. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, until 2009 - and at that time I had the honour of being in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group - the University of Western Greece had been founded and operated in Agrinio. The Municipality of Agrinio had taken care of and contributed to facilities and buildings. The state had granted a hundred and seventy - eight acres from the airport area of Agrinio to become the campus of the University of Western Greece. At the same time, the TEI of Western Greece, one of the savours at the time of the area, operated in Messolopi, one of the spectres of the TEIs, which had a total area of two hundred acres with a building surface of eighteen thousand square meters and an additional six hundred acres for experimental crops. These unique facilities have been paid for by the money, by the stallion of the Greek people and should not be lost. In addition, there were a thousand more acres for education in the public sector that could be used. On the way, between 2009 and a few months ago, two years ago, there was no comprehensive plan for a substantial bleeding of Atalokarna from tertiary education. We finally led to the abolition of the University of Western Greece in Agrini and transformed the state, the proud TEI Mesology, the TEI of Western Greece, into a component of the University of Patras. The gifting shot at higher education in the largest prefecture of Greece, in Itolokarnania, gave the Tsipras Government with the Minister of Education Mr.Gavroglou with the well-known results throughout Greece, while corresponding results were obtained in Itolokarnania. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Among the crimes of Gavroglou - Tsipras were the abolition of the Department of Cultural Environment and New Technologies in Agrini. This section had a positive assessment and certification - quite recently - by the IPPC. It is an innovative section that covered modern educational objects and was directly related, as we all know, to the labour market. Reaching to today and after unjustified, in my opinion, delays of the previous Republican authority at the University of Patras, the dossier finally reached the ETHA in July 2020. However, since then there has been no substantial development or information of at least us about the course of examination of the dossier. On the contrary, there is a tendency to move the PPC members from the new Department of History - Archaeology, as it has been renamed, to which the teachers of the department we are asking today have been transferred. As you can see, all this has created a strong concern for both the students and the teachers of the department and, of course, in the local society of Agrinio. That is why we are calling on you today to give us some answers, both the good colleague from the Change Movement Mr. Konstantopoulos and myself who are very concerned with this department in Agrinio, as well as with higher education. Our questions are submitted and are: What is the policy you are thinking about, and why are we so late in re-establishing the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mr Constantopoulos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, Minister, we are living in a period of controversy with regard to the University Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies in Agrinio. The Ministry of Education of Mr.Gavroglou in 2019 with a political decision decided to abolish the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies of the University of Patras in Agrinio and instead to establish with Law 4610/19 the Department of History and Archaeology based in Agrinio, as well as the Department of Culture, Creative Instruments and Industry in Volos, without the relevant infrastructure, as well as the guarantees for their operation. Minister, the abolition of the section of the Agrinio, the IMF, as it is said, became sudden, without any consultation, without a feasibility study, without an opinion being given by the IPPC, and even with a strong reaction to the students and members of the ICPs of the department, as well as to local bodies and graduates. In short, I would say, it is across the local society of Atolokarnania. I would remind you that this section has an innovative programme and an object of study, an integrated programme of postgraduate studies, recognised professional rights, which is the most important, certification by the IPQ in January 2019 until 2023 and excellent logistics infrastructure. He then has eighteen LAG members, three hundred and fifty with four hundred in active and seven hundred graduates. All of this worked until 2019, that is to say, this section in Agrini. The newly established Department of History and Archaeology for the New Years and the Department of Cultural Environment and New Technologies operate at the same time today for the other natural undergraduate and postgraduate students. The new department's curriculum, Minister, has been structured - this has to be stressed - in order to incorporate old and new students, as well as existing LPI members. As a result, there are many teachers who have left without any object and the department is gradually dissociating themselves from LPIS members. Of the seventeen members today, we reached thirteen. All this, Minister, I have put it to you at the beginning of 2020 with a timely question. I asked you then to find a solution to the deadlock of students, teachers and graduates and to re-establish the department. Indeed, you yourself said that it was unfairly and misled by this position that you are and now this section in 2019 with a political decision by Mr Gavroglou. The undoubted abolition, as you said, did not follow on from the point of view of this, and you referred this to the expression of the opinion of the EBRD, that is, the new independent authority for higher education, the continuity of the IGC. I'll testify to the Minutes for the truth. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall conclude by saying that in April 2020 I tabled with my question to you the subject of its inclusion in the 2020 computer. Voice voice in the wilderness. You never answered. No answer from the Ministry. And we arrived in 2020 today. The patience of the university community, students, graduates, teachers and local society has been exhausted. We are now asking you to tell us what developments are to be made for the re-establishment of the department, when the procedures due to the delay of almost one year will be completed, what your cooperation with the EAEC is so that we can go to the re-establishment of the department. And before I enter this process, I would like to tell you just this: the famous Gavroglou project is two standards, the University of New Technologies, your homeland, and for the departments of Aetolokarnania and Patras, essentially the Western Greece TEI, the dispersal of all departments in Sparta, Tripoli, Patras and the abolition of others, when the campus could accommodate ten and fourteen sections of the university level, as the dear colleague Mr. Lebanese said. With regard to the University Departments of Agrinio, Mr.Gavroglou effectively abolished the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies and created the History and Archaeology in order to help some of his friends. That's what I have to say. Shame on you! Nothing else. From you they expect vindication students, teachers and especially families who lack their hardness and sweat to send their children to the University of Agrinio or the Department of Agrinio to study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u17	Both topical questions will be answered at the same time by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr. Constantopoulos, you don't have to look into the Minutes. I will repeat this once again that Mr.Gavroglou and Mr.4610, who voted shortly before the July 2019 elections, abolished without any justification the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies, which, as you both rightly note, had positive certification from the IPP and in its place, established a Department of History and Archaeology. All these issues and the disastrous policy of the previous political leadership in education, higher education, we have raised them. It has emerged that in a rough and violent manner the previous Minister of Education has reordered the academic map of higher education by establishing departments within one night, even with parliamentary amendments and criteria not academically, but micropolitically. We are therefore opposed to that logic. You are asking me, Mr Constantopoulos, to do the same to reverse Mr Gavroglou's policy. It's not the right way. You can't with ministerial decisions to restructure, restructure the political map of higher education. We are therefore trying to provide solutions, while respecting the institutions and procedures. In January 2020, we introduced the upgraded Higher Education Authority, NISAE, which is the successor of the IPPC, so that strategic planning and the restructuring of the map pass through the recommendations of this independent authority and not on the basis of the will of the Minister of Education. In support of what I am saying, I will tell you that the funding of the university institutions for 2021, which we recently announced, but also the allocation of IPA members a few days ago, and these two acts were done on the basis of the EBA's recommendations, fully respecting its proposals, so that both the grant and the allocation of IPA positions can be done on the basis of objective criteria. This is the first time that this has been done. The same principle is therefore addressed to the institutions, which evaluate new curriculum programmes, even those of thirty-seven on suspension of training. To return to the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies, on the basis of the question you raise, every proposal for the establishment, rename and reopening of a section passes through the independent authority, which is proposed, in order to avoid problems such as the one we are discussing today. So what has the University of Patras done? In February 2020, he submitted a request to the Ministry to promote the rename of the newly established department, the Department of History and Archaeology in a Department of History, Archaeology and Digital Culture, accompanied by a request to transfer the seat of this department from Agrinio to Patras. Last summer, as you rightly noted, Mr Colleague, he submitted a file on the repealed Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies, containing a report on the feasibility of the re-establishment, a curriculum, the certification we referred to, with a view to reassessing the section in the transmission document. The Department of History and Archaeology, especially if it renames and adds its digital dimension, has a very large coating with the old Department of Cultural Environment Management. Programmes of cultural heritage are usually found in Departments of History and Archaeology, either as specializations or as retraining, and this is in line with international practice. We would therefore have the paradox, if the rename proposal of the Department of History and Archaeology were adopted, and the digital dimension added, we would have at the same university two parts with very large overlapping, and even if the proposal to transfer to different cities was accepted. As these proposals - as I mentioned earlier - came just before the administration came from the new Rector, we consider it appropriate to place the University of Patras on them, to table its project on the structure of the university, to assess it, as provided for by the institutional framework and then move on to any changes that are deemed appropriate. But I do not want to be vague for that reason, I will give a timetable. I have also discussed with the Dean of the University of Patras, but also with the President of the ETHAE, and according to this the proposal of the university will be submitted in this year before Christmas, in 2020. The evaluation of the project and the recommendation of the National Authority will be submitted to the Ministry by the end of February 2021 and will then proceed to the implementation of these proposals. So your question, if there is to be included in the 2021 compiler, will be answered in good time according to the above procedure. I will, however, end by respecting time and return to dentistry, to talk about the issues of the students of the old section you raised in your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr Minister, and especially for keeping time. Mr Lebanese has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make it clear that our primary concern at the moment is to guarantee the rights of students and graduates of the department. To ensure the continuity of the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies, in one way or another, and to have a substantial impact on the students and the graduates of their degree in this section on the labour market. You understand that very well, you yourself were dean, you are sensitive. I understand from what you said that the policy of your government and yours personally is to stop this arbitraryness of the ministers from defining university fates by decisions of night, such amendments that only serve party criteria, other than science. I think we all respect that. In this context, I also think it is understandable what you are saying that the proposal to create a new section that essentially integrates autonomously and with the same title and the same old section may be a solution. Because the overlap would cause more problems to everyone. We can discuss these possibilities and opportunities and see what else can be done in this direction, when there is a good mood in substance, ensure the rights and ensure the functioning of this modern section. I also understand - and this is proof of interest - that you have in mind a specific plan with dates that will give absolute solutions within the next two months. The aim of all of us is to stop the uncertainty and suffering of students, graduates and teachers and everything else - we all understand it - is unfair, it is undisciplined, it is inhumane. In what you said, I would like to add that his proposal to leave the department and go to Patras creates a second problem, which concerns investments in the buildings in Agrini. Of course, it upsets the balance between both students and teachers and, in my first speech, I think it is extremely wrong policy and strategy to cut off the largest prefecture of Greece completely from higher education. So moving to Patras from Agrini, I think it is a false policy on the one hand and, on the other hand, if there is a overall restructuring of the university departments in Ieto-Carnania, that could be discussed, but not the autonomous movement of this section which we are discussing today in Patras. In this context - and if we enter such a debate - I imagine we will all be prepared to contribute, especially those who have scientific training. There is no doubt at all that the creation of a strong agricultural and livestock school in Greece, the largest county in Greece, in Itolokarnania, which is number one in animal and plant production, is in the right direction. I believe that we have the potential to create a model school where the times just demand, if we want to get into a change in our productive model, if we want to develop the Greek region and of course connect innovation and higher education to growth. I believe, however, that, first of all, we are all interested in the existing section and its assurance in both the operation in Agrinio and in ensuring the professional rights and continuity of these children. This is a debt to the Greek state to them. I think that's our job, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Levane. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u22	Minister, déjà vu, prostitution. One collapses by establishing - call me Gabroglou. You are now coming and updating Mr. Gavroglou's decision as Minister, saying that the NRAC does not propose or expect to propose or expect to do anything about the university's self-employed and the universities to decide. With regard to the transfer of departments you said to know that here in this Chamber, twice in March 2015 and September 2015, it was the speech that brought for discussion with the then Minister, first with Mr Baltas, then with Mr. Friend, the transfer decided unanimously by the Senate of the University of Patras for the transfer of three university departments of Agrinio to Patras. The Senate's decision has been annulled and suspended. We know we will be against any transfer of any university department from Agrinio to Patras. Also, as regards the agricultural sector, which my colleague spoke about, I fully agree with. Mr. Gabroglou in one night closed one department, founded a Agricultural School without a feasibility study, as well as with unattractive departments. The result was to operate with few students. As Mr Spyros Lebanese raised the issue of agriculture, I am in agreement. Today we are talking about the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies. One-and-a-half year after the unjust dismantling of the department, all students receive is invaluable and inexpensive promises. You said in the debate we had in a previous time question that SYRIZA made violent changes to higher education with micro-political purposes rather than academic criteria and that you are opposed by the New Democracy Government in these logics. You said that the University of Patras has the right and the opportunity to table a proposal for the reopening of the department and that NCAE will express an opinion. The university has asked NSA but nothing until today. No answer. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Explain: On 5 August 2020, NCAE by e-mail informs students that on 27 July a document was sent to the University of Patras and refers them for information to the Ministry where the file is located. On 15 September, Minister, the Ministry of Education in writing informs students that the question of re-establishment has been raised in the mind of the Ministry's leadership. The culmination is coming on November 23rd - listen! - where NCAE with a new e-mail responds that she has only been notified of one transponder from the University of Patras. Not an envelope. This is a platoon and a toy, as, of course, the NEAFC judges only on requests sent by the Ministry of Education. Until now, from you, from the Ministry of Education, nothing has been presented, Minister. That's the truth. I will tell you what I mentioned in the Minutes. Minister, it's a mockery. Documents are transported from the Ministry and from the Ministry's departments. Another declares incompetence, another states that he does not have the file and awaits the request. The students became detectives to find out where the files and the Ministry of Education are going. The Ministry's services say it is now a matter of leadership. What, then, has the leadership done beyond finding excuses and making time? Nothing. And as long as time passes the Department of Cultural Environment and New Technologies of Agrinio is extinguished. She lives with fewer and fewer teachers, i.e. with fewer LAG members. Of the seventeen, as I have told you, we have reached thirteen and have asked for four more to move. I fear that we will reach a point where the Ministry will tell us that there are no LAG members and that it cannot be re-established. So here you leave time, Minister, to the detriment of students. Here it should be pointed out, however, that the University of Patras took eighteen members of the board from you. Give at least three of them for the Cultural Environment Management Department and re-establish it. Put an end to this relic we live and experience, primarily their students and families. The students today, Mr Minister, as I said before and before being administratively involved in the Historical and Archaeological Department, will receive a degree from the old department, without any provision being made to guarantee their professional rights. The graduates, in other words, will have a degree without any academic reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u23	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u24	Think of a graduate, Minister - to welcome the Minister - who received his degree from the Department of Cultural Environment and New Technologies in Agrinio and asks for his professional rehabilitation abroad, when the firm or body to which he has addressed for work type and sees that the university qualification of that student has no reference. What do you say? Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u25	Mr Colleague, you speak for about eleven minutes, along with your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u26	All this, Mr Minister, because the Ministry, as we have said, decided to abolish an innovative section on culture, using technologies and management. Ministers, purposes and opportuneness are not appropriate in a modern state. You can't run at two meters and two stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u28	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u29	You've been talking 11 minutes. Think of the other colleagues. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u30	Mr Gabroglou cannot dismantle the section with a political decision and you will come to abolish Patras Law with another ministerial decision. That is to say, two metres and two stations, both from Mr Gavroglou and from you today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Constantopoulos, why are you embarrassing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u32	We're waiting for a solution. If you do not give a solution, Minister, it is good next week to meet all the MPs and the Rector with the Ministry in order to find a solution as appropriate to a higher education institution that was abolished by a political decision. The rest is soap opera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u33	Minister, please, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Constantopoulos, I'll tell you one more time. We are not going to do the same Mr. Gavroglou did in the opposite direction, because then we will have the phenomenon that we have seen, sections going from one university to another and from one city to another. That's not the right way to do it. The right way is to respect the suggestions made by the national authority and after its opinion. I told you two issues were raised by the University of Patras. The first was for the rename of the Department of History - Archaeology which will include the digital dimension and the transfer of the seat to Patras and the second for the establishment. Obviously, it doesn't make sense to have two parts that have the same object and are in different cities. The second one was tabled for the re-establishment in the summer. I shall submit to the minutes the service document attesting what I say. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to get to the point. Mr Levane, I have listened very carefully, and I am very pleased about what you have said, because the development of our departments and universities really needs to be done with regard to students, with a view to their professional rehabilitation, the prospect of joining the labour market and in particular the needs of the local economy and the prospects for its development. So, as far as Agrini and Aetolokarnania are concerned, I am sure that the University of Patras listens to us, is aware of the conditions in the Aetolokarnania Prefecture and is aware of the infrastructure and will take them into account in the proposal it will present, as far as its plan for the university is concerned. But I want to talk to the students. We all understand - and this must be our first concern - the anxiety of the students and graduates of the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies. I shall say, of course, that the abolition of a section does not mean that their professional rights are stopped. On the other hand, however, there is also the anxiety that someone has a diploma from a branch that has been closed down. I don't want to prejudge any decision of the University of Patras. I have heard what you said, Mr Levane, and that is also the case in other university departments, and it is a reasonable suggestion that there should be a separate direction, a second direction, since the solution to the rename of the Department of History - Archaeology by the University - which is the expeditious one, should be tabled. There could therefore be two directions with cognitive objects one concerning history - archaeology, the second concerning the cognitive object of the old division, which has been assessed positively, and the subject of the degree has also been recorded and the solution to the graduates of the old division has also been given. I repeat, however, that this should be proposed by the University of Patras and under no circumstances prejudge its decision. Besides, the same model already exists at the University of Patras, there is the Department of Education and Social Work Sciences where the curriculum includes two directions, which end up in two different degrees. One is the direction of primary education, which grants a degree equivalent to the country's primary education departments, and the other is the direction of social work which grants a social worker's degree. This is a solution that the university could assess and if it considers it appropriate to propose to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister, and for keeping time. You are always comprehensive and clear. We continue with our second question with No 174/18-11-2020 on the second question of the Parliamentary Drama of the Change Movement Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Without tablet and technological equipment, thousands of students remain out of teleworking". Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes. I would ask you, from now on, to keep the time, because there are other obligations of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try, you know this is a big deal. Let me start by passing on to Mrs Keramea, this is the first time we have been. And I hope that all the people who are suffering and who have this adventure will continue to have a positive outcome. Minister, since last March the first wave of pandemic and the huge overthrows it has brought have been nine months. All failures of the first time cannot today be understood by anyone. The Ministry of Education had sufficient time to prepare for a difficult school year with almost a new pandemic wave and therefore a necessary replacement for lifelong learning by teleworking. Among the most basic things that the Ministry had to do was to ensure that the necessary equipment is shared in school units and students in time to enable the monitoring of distance learning. All over the summer, but also since the beginning of September, you have not missed an opportunity in any way through your websites, through your interviews, papers to tell us how hard you and your partners work and finally tell us not to worry and that everything will be ready for the new school year. Today on 27 November, therefore, thousands of students remain without the necessary equipment, without portable computers, and as you know, this further reduces existing educational inequalities. So today, what you are saying is that in the next four weeks you will have completed the distribution of electronic equipment to students, and I imagine that despite the great delay you have a complete picture of the real needs. Do you or do you not? So I would like to ask you: first of all, what about the 'CISCO' convention, why so much refusal to make it public? How many tablets and when will they get to every school? What is the number of applications per school and student for the provision of equipment and, respectively, the number of shortages? If so, when will they surrender? We also want you to tell us whether what you say has been announced, that is to say, to ensure that the equipment is distributed and, finally, what shortcomings exist at every school in terms of infrastructure and networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou, for keeping time. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your wishes. Mrs Kefalidou, this time is taking place a huge project in our country, universal modern telecommunications. And I say huge, because it involves a million and a half thousand people, it concerns the whole school community, from kindergarten to high school, as well as university. It is an undertaking that has technical challenges, of course, a project that is credited to our teachers, students and their families. You say in your question, as I read from within: 'Today, thousands of students - I repeat, thousands of students - remain without the necessary laptops'. Please, Mrs. Kefalidou, give us your information. Where are those thousands of students? How are they supposed to stay off-television? Where do these particulars come from? And I ask why I think that you will agree with me, in the Greek Parliament and in the public debate - because I have heard more of your positions on channels - it is important to provide evidence with documentation, not simply seek to create impressions. We say 'no', you are wasting time, telecommunications has collapsed' - and, at the same time, perhaps we are the only country in the European Union that has managed to do, in such a universal manner, modern education from kindergarten to high school. I say again that this is thanks to the enormous efforts of our teachers and students. And yes, there are technical difficulties. We've said it from the first moment. There have been problems and there will be problems. The project is huge, unprecedented, not for Greece, for the world, for the whole world. I do not think what I said before, namely that other countries have not succeeded in doing modern telematics from the kindergarten to the university, the whole educational community. Of course there will be difficulties. Here we are to solve them, to improve distance education. But, incidentally, we hear mostly about the problems and do not hear for three weeks that, for example, there is a normal class, six to seven hours a day in high school and in high school. Every day it becomes about thirty - nine thousand parallel teleconferences of high school and high school, about fifty - four and fifty - five thousand parallel teleconferences of municipal and kindergartens. Last week, Ms. Kefalidou, over a million six hundred thousand teleconferences were held, more than twenty - one million student participations, over seventy - four million lessons, with an average of forty - five minutes. Another thing that I think is of interest and is directly related to what you invoke, but without evidence, is this. Before the crisis, before the first lockdown, on the Panhellenic School Network, about 100 thousand students were registered. Today is over a million four hundred thousand. They are all students registered on the Panhellenic School Network. So what's the conclusion? Our schools normally take a full day course with students connected. And yes, everyone can have a different way of watching. Another to connect to a computer, another to a tablet, another to a phone. We've worked intensively, Mrs. Kefalidou, since spring to ensure access to telecommunications. We have ensured a platform of modern telecommunications free of charge - I will come to the subject of the contract with 'CISCO' - for all the schools in the country and after a public invitation made this summer to all conference providers. This platform was adapted to the Panhellenic School Network. A specific identification procedure has been provided, always following the instructions of the Privacy Authority. There was a zero data charge for all the platforms used by the Ministry for Television, a zero charge for those who have neither computer nor tablet nor telephone and for those who want to enter a fixed phone or mobile phone to connect to the platform. There have been training courses for our teachers in digital tools and the methodology of distance learning. The Institute for Educational Policy has been instructed to draw up distance education and equipment programmes. Mrs Kefalidou, you say, "Why did we have to go to November to make the distribution known?" Mrs Kefalidou, this has been done since March and April. I will then give you in detail the information showing what efforts have been made to strengthen school equipment and through Community funds and through donations from many sources, so that this is precisely from the first wave of the pandemic. The first distributions started in April, not November. But I will come back to this in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u39	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I will ask for your grace. Madam Minister, I always listen with care and interest. So you briefly mentioned the achievements of the Ministry of Education since last spring. In fact, with your position you confirm the view that, for reasons that no one knows, you are at a huge distance from the reality of the Greek schools, either because your information channels are having a problem or because you are consciously choosing to advertise another parallel universe of large projects that await the coming of the coronary to implement. You said you had no evidence. I would like to tell you that the Ministry of Education first had to give information to the Greek Parliament, to each of us, about what exists in every region, in every county, in every municipality, in every school in detail. If you want there to be credibility, the ministry should first give the evidence. It's true, Minister, we're trying to collect them from the training directors. Do we find a response? No, it's the answer. Also, you really present a picture as if here we are something like Silicon Valley, as if there is such a great familiarity with technology in every Greek house that is very simple from the phone, the fixed, the cell phone, everything. Have you tried to attend a class six hours through a fixed phone? I've done it, because I'm trying to figure out exactly how the Greek family is trying to help her children. There is a very big gap between children who have the ability to have a tablet and children who are, unfortunately, at a cafe or at a meat shop. Don't you see that? Don't look at a situation. Say truths. Let's just say there's an effort going on, so we can all get together. But the beauty of a situation that is difficult anyway, I don't think it's helping anyone. According to what you said, until the end of December, they will be guaranteed - if I am not mistaken, I have heard it in your interviews - eighty with ninety thousand tablets. Didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u41	No, I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u42	It's not like that. You're gonna tell me, good. I would like to ask you whether collateral means that children will be able to receive it, because otherwise I'saving', another 'distributing', another 'I have in my home and I am watching'. Writing procedures? Infinitely well-known. Was there something that wasn't known at the Ministry? Obviously, after all these assurances of yours this summer, we thought that whatever bureaucratic embroidery existed you had solved. We were probably wrong, because you too, apparently, overestimated your potential, assuming that in twenty days' time - because this process began on 21 August - that is enough to get you out of it with all the bureaucratic obstacles that existed. Unfortunately, the Ministry had other priorities and they seemed to be from what came and were legislated immediately after the lockdown. What did we see? Violent legislation for private educational establishments, mainly so that you can ensure the redundancies of teachers. Legislation for the anachronistic provision of returning the conduct to the dismissal. And, of course, we ate all summer for the placement of training directors with completely party criteria, reminding us once again what a commitment to democracy and transparency means to you. So far, let's say that the government program was unfolding. But the prerequisite was for you to have solved the current, the small, the self-evident and the basics first. Did you do it? Oh, no. We don't. No, it's called it the reality and the shortcomings that exist in schools, and you do what you don't hear. Madam Minister, you knew very well that all the Ministry's leadership was not called upon to do an easy job. There were too many problems in this ministry. The previous government has helped as much as possible. It was a Lennaian Hydra thing you'd handled. Today, then, you see, practically, that the resolution of problems was not done by magic, nor by heavy announcements. He wanted systematic, carefully designed, and with control of the implementation of each step of work. Hard, hard work steady, self-evidently and no spectacular. Most of all, that's all. And between us - let's say some truths - you didn't start from scratch, Minister. What you have mentioned, after the collapse of the 'CISCO' platform, I would like to say to you that they are based on the work and infrastructure left by the PASOK triple. So, do you want to tell you about the infrastructure? Diamantopoulou Minister was digitised to all the necessary educational material in school books with the financing of the ESDP. Under Loverdus Minister all the teleconferencing services of the Pan-Hellenic School Network were used to become some extensive, modern network security schooltraining. So, assuming you're talking about a big digital jump, then the frog handed him over to you, PASOK. Also, there are many issues that can be mentioned for the technical equipment of school units, many thoughts about how to save costs from connecting schools, such as by means of competitions for broadband that you have not yet done. To conclude, I would like to tell you that despite countless announcements, the constant inactivity in the elementary shows the Ministry of Education unprepared to the entirely anticipated second wave of the virus. And for starters, I'd like you to apologize to every student, every teacher, the Greek family, who finally judges you and not us. She judges you, because with regard to what you say here, this terriblely beautiful picture you present, the Greek parent knows what he lives in his home.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u43	Mrs. Kefalidou, please complete. You've spoken twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u44	At a time when I hope it won't be long, the coronary will pass. So none of us want the next day that will be dawn, to find our children a big gap in terms of their school life. Because teleworking is also a psycho-corruption, it is a tiresome process and it is a dubious result. Already - and I'm telling you sincerely - the children of the third grade feel that the first quarter has been lost. And because we're in front of developments and I hear announcements...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u45	Please, Mrs. Kefalidou. You've been in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u46	...and the way we're going to the pan-Hellenics-- that's next thing-- tell us a little what you're thinking. Give them opportunities, give them the tools, so they can respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u47	Mrs. Kefalidou, you went to seven minutes. Listen, the Chamber will be used by committees at 12 noon. We must have delivered her. We're still not halfway around. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Kefalidou, thank you very much. I confess I'm on a question. Is it going to be a digital jump or not? You say no. But you're saying, if you do, this is credited to PASOK. I do not know what your position is, if there is or is not a great effort being made. Mrs. Kefalidou, I'll make it clear. It's hard. There are very big difficulties!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u49	Don't play with words, Minister. The infrastructure had entered from PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u50	Mrs. Kefalidou, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u51	Please, Mrs. Kefalidou. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u52	As you can see, technical difficulties exist everywhere and there are, yes, teletexts. There is no doubt - I say it officially, Mrs Kefalidou - that there are certainly challenges and technical difficulties. Here we are to solve them. Here we are, to improve overall distance education. And here we will be at every stage of this process to help and support the educational community with all the means we can. There is no doubt that nothing can substitute for living teaching. That is why our first priority - the Prime Minister said so yesterday - when the epidemiologists give us the green light for the gradual reintroduction to normality, our first concern will be to open the schools. From there, however, Mrs Kefalidou, when one makes specific statements and refers to thousands of students, it is understandable to ask: Who are the thousands of students? How many are there exactly? When you say thousands of students, they're a thousand, they're twenty thousand, hundred thousand, five hundred thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u53	Madam Minister, eighty thousand students are the recipients of the tablets you distribute. When we say thousands of students, the numbers come from this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u54	Nobody interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u55	I say this because, Mrs Kefalidou, you have repeatedly said it in writing in the Greek Parliament, and I see nothing of it. You also say in writing: "We had to come to November to make the distribution of the appliances known." So I'm telling you, Mr. Kefalidou: Devices have already been shared since spring. On 15 April we announced the reinforcement of equipment of two and a half thousand school units with devices that exceed EUR 1 million. On 23 April we announced a second wave of donations. On May 7th was the third mission of portable devices. Mrs. Kefalidou, I'm saying that because you're extinguished, you're saying the distribution is now happening. Distribution has begun since the first wave, as soon as the live operation of schools has been suspended. And again, we're here all the time, enriching our equipment. It is a constant process. This process will continue. And it will continue for this reason: pandemic is obviously an element. The suspension of operation is an element that leads us to provide additional portable equipment. Even when the schools open up, we may have cases. So he can close a department. And that's where they're gonna need devices. We'll keep giving devices. But beyond the pandemic, Mrs Kefalidou, what has taken place, this great change in the digitisation of education, is a acquis on which we must build. So it is important that, after the pandemic, we further equip our schools and our students with devices in order to build on just digital skills, strengthen them. I think, then, that I have fully responded. And the total number for the time - because it is constantly growing - is ninety-three thousand devices both from donations and from Community funds. Of course we use all the channels. We are making use of Community funds procedures, making use of exceptional funds for the coronary, ESDP programmes, donations. We will all make use of it, Mrs Kefalidou, and in all respects we shall respect the procedures as planned, and the ESDP procedures, and the Court of Auditors, all the procedures as planned, in order to make the equipment of the schools just as it is appropriate. And I would remind you that equipment is delivered to schools, and is then made available to students on the basis of specific criteria that have been given to managers, including low income, parental unemployment, one-parent membership, one-parent membership, one-parent, third-party or orphan family, and so on. I come to the question of the convention with 'CISCO'. Mrs Kefalidou, as I have told you, and as I have publicly said, a public invitation was made this summer in order for all teleconferencing providers to come. The cooperation framework with ‘CISCO’ has continued. The contract was drawn up, it was submitted where requested to the Privacy Authority and, in particular, it is a donation acceptance. For two weeks now, Mrs Kefalidou, I have said that she is at the disposal of the parties' representatives. So, so, like this, for the contract, and do you know how many party representatives came to see the contract? Nobody's come. He didn't come either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u56	It doesn't seem to you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u57	So I repeat it is a donation acceptance that has no obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u58	The 'CISCO Convention' should be discussed in Parliament. You are insulting the parliamentary procedure when you say "meet me on a date in my office" to take a look at thieves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u59	Mrs. Kefalidou, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u60	Mrs. Kefalidou, I don't know why that upset, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u61	Is it possible to speak seven minutes in dentistry and interrupt the Minister? Please, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u62	What does it include that is unresponsive to public debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u63	Come on, Mrs. Kefalidou, see the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u64	You're not used to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u65	The contract is a donation acceptance. The Greek taxpayer does not spend one euro. He has technical characteristics. Come see the contract. If you're only going to make a fuss on the channels for the show, come see the contract. So I close with this, Mrs. Kefalidou. This is a national effort, a difficult effort, with great difficulty in all areas, with difficulties and in education, there is no doubt. However, there is a very great effort on the part of teachers, on the part of pupils, on the part of their families. Yes, there are difficulties. The project is huge and difficulties will exist. Our job will be to solve every difficulty as quickly as possible, to continuously improve the system and offer each family, to each student the opportunity to continue the training process, even when we are suspended. Is tele-education the ideal way? No, it's the answer. The ideal is living education. As long as our epidemiologists suggest that we should suspend the life of schools, technology gives us valuable tools and I think we should all support this. It's a national effort. Because, Mrs. Kefalidou, saying there's nothing going on in televising, you're finally canceling our teachers and students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u66	I am aware that the first question under number 191/23-11-2020 of a second question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An event to stay the bookshops open during the second lockdown" will not be discussed due to lack of competence. We enter the fourth with number 192/23-11-2020 inquiries into the first cycle of MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The continuation of special schools in the midst of a pandemic." The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mr. Delis has the floor for his prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. As we all understand, it is very serious, it is a matter of the safe operation of schools, much more so when we talk about special schools in which pupils with serious illnesses, such as epilepsies, organic deficiencies, respiratory problems, which, of course, makes these children particularly vulnerable to COVID. As we all understand, of course, there is also a great difficulty in complying with health rules not by school teachers - alas - but by these children. This is a particular health treaty, which I do not think is taken into account by the health rules which are being drawn up for the reality of these schools. I would remind you here, Minister - although you are well aware - that since last year's suspension of special schools, last spring, March, and the staff and parents urgently laid the necessary conditions and conditions for the safe operation of special schools. These conditions and conditions are summarised in three axes: the appropriate and safe areas, of course, the necessary staff and the necessary cleaning facilities. What did the government do in this regard? Essentially nothing could be said. With the opening of special schools in September, the only measures provided for by the government were the compulsory use of the mask in these schools or the front by staff and the optional use by those of course pupils that is possible, pointing out and adding to the government with meaning that "you know in special law schools the departments are in any case small". First of all, let us say here that in itself the current minimum number of three pupils to form the teams - because teams are formed in these schools - at a special school, it may seem small, but at the same time it may be forbidden, since very often these children, two or three, have not only serious but also very different educational, scientific and pedagogical needs, due to the diversity of the disability they have with each other. They're not similar cases. In addition, the Ministry of Education does not know that in many cases children are stacked in small and inappropriate rooms, while in any larger rooms in some schools there are more than one group. We are asking you - to close, Mr President, and I thank you for the tolerance - what measures the government intends to take on this particular issue that has arisen in relation to the pandemic, namely, in order for medical surveillance to be continued, epidemiological surveillance with repeated checks and mass tests free of charge, with the responsibility of the state and with medical care. We understand the need for health issues, in direct connection with the services of the Ministry of Health, to have all those necessary and necessary measures of personal protection. Finally, the necessary staff should be recruited. To increase the routes, in order to reduce the number of pupils in the means of transport they use every day, and often, very often, they are stacked, Minister, within them. And of course, for those children with very serious illnesses who are at home and cannot go to school under these circumstances, they can be supported by the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u68	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u69	Mr Delis, thank you for the question and especially for the opportunity to talk about a subject which is not only sensitive, because it concerns students and students who need our particular attention, but above all for the opportunity to discuss what has happened in recent months on the part of special education, but also the moves made by the Ministry of Education, to help every household. And when I say "every home", apart from the student and the student, it is necessary to strengthen the family called and the previous period, especially the period of first incarceration - that is March to May - many times to help, strengthen every child in a overthrow of everyday life and programming that no one expected. In particular, children with disabilities, but also with special learning needs, have been pushed too hard. The truth is that the feedback given to the Ministry has also been the basis, so that specific directives can be drawn up, but this is what I shall refer to in my reply. It is clear, Mr Delis, that we are now living under unprecedented conditions. Over the past few months we have been constantly discussing - and here in Parliament - all the things that have changed in education and those which are changing, which can certainly be described as a reserve, on the other hand as a major challenge, namely to take the conclusions of the first period and of the current implementation, and to see what is the print in the end pedagogical, which leaves on every child, on the piece and on the perception of matter, at the same time in the part of the progress of matter, but also in a psychosocial manner, how each child, every teacher, should be supported, because we are talking about an educational family. This is obviously also about special education and general education and you know that we are often discussing it and I imagine that the concerns and concerns are common. So we are faced with an unprecedented health crisis. It hit society, the economy, it would obviously affect education. He couldn't stay intact. Of course, and in the midst of pandemic, as a Ministry, we have made the protection of the health of our fellow citizens and, in this case, of our teachers and students, of course, of the family and of the whole environment, in which each teacher and every child moves. While during the first period, special schools remained closed, at this time we had a very thorough discussion with the panel of specialists, pediatricians, specialist scientists - who analysed exactly how each class is in the special school, what instances of children we may have in the special school. And you know beyond elementary school, right after the EEEGYL or the EEEC - because every case is different - and the functionality of children in special education and training units is different too. And they were the scientists themselves and obviously the political decision that contributed to maintaining the learning process in special schools by living. What were the conclusions of the first period? That the children in many cases were isolated, that the children were left away from support not only from the teacher, from the teacher and the teacher, but also from the special teachers and special assistant staff. It is very important to stop treatment with the therapist. It is very important at that time not to have the school nurse or the psychologist who will help the child multidimensionally and multiplierly. It is therefore an important decision, a positive decision by the government that special schools remain open, and this was done with the committee's full and conscientious opinion, since it was - I repeat - all the elements of both the rooms and the size of the rooms, but also the number of children, as we are talking about very few departments in special education. And how could it be different? We could never arbitrary, Mr Delis, and we would never be able to make a decision which would jeopardise the health of their children, teachers and families. So what does the operation of schools, from the beginning, give us from 14 September to now? Fortunately - and one is not glad to say that things are going well in terms of symptoms. We have schools that are closed. You mentioned thirty-two. Now it's twenty-nine. Because, you know, every fourteen days can be opened and closed. The number is fortunately falling. And we see that in the crowd of other cases in society our schools are safe, our special schools are safe. Special instructions for the operation of schools have therefore been sent since the beginning of the year. You have essentially referred here to the general specifications for the mask. I repeat that the directives have been written by the EGE, with the assistance of the committee's special scientists, with the agreement and obviously the knowledge of the field, because the Ministry of Education has actually come to implement things which were of a health nature. We did something different at the beginning of this school year. The decision to close every department and every school is now a decision brought by the director or the training director there, but with the agreement of the Director of the Regional Health Committee, so that the people who know the health data will actually come, help and ultimately as director to make the decision if a department or a school is to be closed. Of course, the EGE, with the help of tracking within each school by the COVID responsible - I repeat why the schools have not been left alone in their luck, there is COVID, may be an instructor, may be the manager - who comes in contact with the EGE, the necessary tracking is carried out and, immediately thereafter, the decisions relating to the range, as I said, the closure are made. In my dentistry, I'm going to say more so that I don't abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u70	Here, Mr Delis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u71	Although I have noticed that there has not actually been a response to the point made by the Minister in relation to the issues that we have said - we hope to hear that in the second instance - I would like to make two comments, first of all on the unprecedented circumstances to which the Minister referred several times. You know, Minister, the conditions were first known in March, April and May. It's been ten months. At some point these conditions have ceased to be unprecedented, it is a reality for months. And finally, those responsibilities need to be taken over in order to deal with the problems. We can't keep saying the conditions are unprecedented and we can stay there. As regards the second in relation to the opening of special schools, can I tell you something? We say that not only the special schools but also the general schools can and must be open - we do not disagree with this - but with all the health rules, which means that the terms and conditions of safe health must be respected, first and foremost. That is what we say, our language has been hairy here since last March to say and little has been done by the government. It is now seen - although today in a very discreet way - and repeats the complacency of government policy on this issue. I repeat that today the Minister was very careful and discreet about her position. But, you know, this general governmental competitivity conflicts with the very reality and with what the world lives, especially in special education, where for all of us things are difficult in quarantine, imagine how difficult it is for these children and the families of these children who raise their own even more tolerant gulch. So special education, Minister, is once again a victim not only of the shortcomings of the educational system, of the well-established, especially on the subject of the building of these schools - it is a tragic situation, and I will mention some examples, you know them - but also of the health system. Can we talk about sportism in the building infrastructure? Let me tell you that Thessaloniki's 1st ENEEGYL is housed in a three-storey building in which there is no elevator and we all understand what this means to children with disabilities. The opposite example is the 2nd ENEYL, very close to the airport of Thessaloniki. There the school operates in a semi-terrestrial space with verified, accredited static issues. The 2nd UNECE Pyalia is hosted in a former textile industry completely inappropriate, without a courtyard. For a courtyard, they have a balcony. And, of course, not to mention it - you know, we have also asked a question about this - the Cordelius OSCE, a really shame on the educational system. We wonder how the D.A. hasn't intervened yet. This must be closed and relocated. No differentiation, however, we do not have any specialisation on the matter of urgency today, Mr President, so I do not have to repeat what I said just now on the issue of open schools. Of course they must be open with all those conditions that we have said. Of course, it is well known that the health of these children is exposed because of the problems and the inability to deal with and comply with the rules and their exposure to this risk may have very painful effects. There are the valves, we've told them, I'll say them again, perhaps even greater development in this regard. The number of pupils in the classroom in these special school departments should be defined by the educational needs themselves and taken into account, of course, also square measures. Has the creation of a Commentary Service not emerged from reality itself? Do we not see how necessary this Commentary Service is anymore not just for the special schools - where it should, of course, be - but for all schools and for linking it to the health system for the means of protection, to the permanent cleaner? And, of course, another issue is the establishment and taking over of the responsibility of transferring these pupils from the state and not from taxi or buses. Because you know, a taxi is not only used by these children. The cab will leave these kids at school and then go get other passengers. Why do taxi in normal pandemic conditions have the right to carry a passenger, they can carry up to four children with disabilities? That's what the Circular says. As for how a coronary symptom is treated in a special school, Mr President, I will tell you very briefly that when the school manager first finds out this, parents are invited to take their child away from school and so far everything is done. But, from now on, the state itself should take its own responsibility and visit the school with the local step of EGE in order to make traceability and epidemiological surveillance and to determine the scale of the dispersion in the community, the extent of dispersal in contacts between this child.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u72	Please complete, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u73	And, of course, all this should be done with the responsibility and planning of the state, and not with teachers and parents running around like foreigners from here and there and trying to find an end, either in health centres or in hospitals. That's what we're talking about. In any case, all this should at some point also be dealt with in these schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u74	Finish it, Mr. Delia. You've reached six and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, pandemic is a dynamic phenomenon. These schools were thirty-two and they became twenty-nine. In any case, it is not less than twenty - nine special schools. So we see that there is a need - and I am focusing on it - for the government to take urgent responsibility for health and to tackle the problems, by calling for special schools to remain open and for them to be generally open under the terms and conditions that we have said. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u76	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u77	Mr Deli, we agree that it is obviously the intention, as the Minister himself stated yesterday, and the Prime Minister himself, in a teleconference with young children of a primary school in Chania, during which we were following their lesson with great pleasure, to open the schools after this dynamic process allows. And yes, we have to keep these schools open, because surely this magical thing that's going in the classroom can't be substituted by a computer. But because I want to be specific, let's go see what has happened this year to special education schools, but also to the assistance of children living at home, because some of them belong to a vulnerable group and may be at a special or general school and stay at home. Since 23 September, the Circular has been sent to substantially prevent distance education instructions with very clear instructions and the use of ERCMs, as well as ERCs. You know, these special multidisciplinary committees that can help every child in the advisory piece and in the scientific and training programme. That's in case you're home. A special circular was also sent following a joint ministerial decision by the Minister and me, again for the development and advisory support of the ERCS for asynchronous and modern telecommunications. Because, you know, in many cases, children in special education and training are unable to participate in something that has this modern way of education. In other words, we must help children in a different way, either secondaryly or asynchronously, in a multimodal and multimedia way. Also, just the day before - if I'm not mistaken, at 14 - directives were sent back so that we can use staff from general education, which was currently at home, in schools of special education and education and to strengthen them at this time by making use of every case, every teacher in these schools. But let's see what happened and actually showed the ministry's commitment to special education. The first appointments were made, which you know very well, Mr Delis, because we have discussed this many times in this House. Four and a half thousand people, teachers, special educational staff and special assistants, were appointed for the first time in public education. This was a very important development, which makes the relationship with the student or student permanent, something very important in special treatment. Also, there were more substitutes than ever before and they were presented directly at the school and not at the Education Department. Right now, we have over five thousand eight hundred alternates plus the permanent teachers who are earlier than ever in schools and I really call on you, because I know you're in contact with the special schools, do this check. When had they gone so early, to such fullness of staff in special education and training? We came to Parliament, voted for more than 300 million in September and October, so that the appropriations could also be extended to general education for the entire day, but also to extend them. It is true that there will also be a next phase of deputy recruitment to meet the needs of the few remaining, but also the others that are very important in parallel support. All of this in the appointing and recruitment piece. I repeat: Four and a half thousand permanent teachers, alternates, specialist teachers, special assistant staff, additional staff, assistants in special schools, KESH and support, and of course we do not stop. We'll continue to support the schools. Special instructions were sent for the specific schools for distance learning, the exploitation of ERCs and of ERCs at each level and a specific material that is posted, digitised for all children, all books accessible through the DIOFANTOS Platform and for the first time - and I must say that - for children who have heard this special concern in Educational Television, which I think is very important. It is, in fact, a good example, a best practice in Europe. For the first time, Mr President, the courses of Educational Television have been possible in sign language. So it gained meaning for both our children and their parents who could probably not follow in another way. We are moving forward - step by step, Mr Delis. I wish they could be solved as well in buildings, which you know, and we're watching them. Just the day before yesterday, we had a teleconference on two important developments in the subject of special education and treatment for housing in Crete, but also in Athens, a large urban centre that is in great need. They're really old buildings. But you know very well, Mr Delis, that this is not solved in a few months. Going to a building that really has proven needs, finding out, even studying and rebuilding, is an issue that can often take two and three years. But here I am responsible for saying that we will indeed "build" Greece through the Education Directorates, so that we can identify the needs that exist in the fields of housing and in cooperation with the local administration and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure, so that we can lay the foundations so that we can resolve these issues, but not with magic wands, but with intent and commitment and exhaustion of all the financial limits that are currently in existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u78	The next two topical questions, namely the fifth under number 177/19-11-2020, the second question by MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr.Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "The Greeks pay dearly for the use of mobile data" and the fourth question by number 176/19-11-2020, the second question by Elementary Elias of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "The digital delay of the country undermines the citizens and the economy" will be discussed at the same time because in their wording the subject is similar, but in their essence it is the same and, of course, time will not be deprived of anyone. Just the Minister will speak for six minutes both in the protology and in the denology. The State Secretary for Digital Governance will, of course, answer Mr George Georgios Georgios on both sides. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I am appalled by your abhorrence that 'they will of course answer Mr Georgantas' and allow me before I begin my question, saying in advance that I respect and honestly honour Mr Georgiotta, to say that I consider it unacceptable, unacceptable and insulting for this Chamber when two party Members ask a question on such a topical issue, the Minister responsible should refuse to come. I would like to ask Mr Georganta to move to Mr Pierrakakis, because I am learning that he intends to speak in the next parliamentary elections, that if he wishes to be converted from the choice of the Heads to the citizens, he should respect this place and Members, but above all the citizens, whose concern we are expressing with his colleague on a matter that concerns the whole of the country, and at the moment the Minister refuses to come. Let's go now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u80	Wait a minute. Let me fix something. It's not a question of denial. As you know, that's why there's both the Undersecretaries and the Deputy Ministers to replace the Minister. There is another denial and another division of responsibilities. Mr Georgios is an expert on these matters. He knows everything. Don't say the Minister refuses to come. It's been too many times. It happened today that it wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u81	Let the government answer that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u82	You are addressing the Bureau and I must say that the division of the powers of the Ministries is provided for. I do not think it is offensive to your resignation or to this House. For God's sake! In any case, come to the topical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u83	Minister, the coronary pandemic revealed the low speeds and frequent damage to domestic data networks, thereby making it difficult for citizens to access the Internet and to undermine the digital transformation of the economy in practice. Recently Mr. Pierracakis asked citizens not to enter Facebook and Instagram during peak hours so that the teleworking and teleworking network would not fall. An unprecedented statement for a Minister of State - member of the European Union! If my memory is not cheating on me, only the Turkish Minister in the summer of 2016 had made such a statement. Television in primary schools at noon, of course, so that it does not coincide with high school and high school, because the network cannot stand. Eight months after the pandemic appeared and the need for teleworking and telecommunications and increasing demand for broadband connections have not made the necessary investments to upgrade the capacity and credibility of the networks. What do we see? Vacations, frequent lesions and malfunctions in almost all existing networks, in all regions of the country, insufficient speeds on a large scale. All this time, the government has done little to mobilise the companies for the necessary upgrades in both the log and the distribution network. The examples are many, and it is certainly not random. Whole areas are offline for both fixed network subscribers and mobile telephony subscribers, while other areas stay out of hand for years at lower speeds, completely incompatible with the needs of a modern European country. I am sure that both in Kilkis and Elias and Rhodope and in all regions, if they listen to us at the moment, they will certify what I say to our fellow citizens. Just yesterday, the National Telecommunications and Post Committee triggered the process of compensation by telecommunications providers for the divergences from advertised and real Internet connection speeds. That was yesterday, November 26th. The ETF itself, of course, did not change the conditions of the tender for the allocation of rights to the use of radio frequencies, so that new players would not enter the market and would obviously not increase competition. So I ask you: First, do you intend to upgrade the critical national digital infrastructure for the benefit of both the citizens and the companies in the country, who are struggling in these conditions and cannot access a high-speed network, but also by reducing the cost of using mobile data, which remains more expensive than the average of the other European countries? Secondly, will you ask the EMCDDA to take immediate measures to strengthen competition and introduce new providers with new infrastructure so that they are finally digitalised to the rest of the European Union? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Before I take the floor, I would like to add something to what Mr Katrinis said about the presence of the Minister. Clearly it is at the Minister's discretion to come or not to the House, it may have a coma or send the Undersecretary, but this shows his intention and how much importance he gives to what is a top issue for all Greeks who live in Greece today and for the Internet. Minister, I will begin by reminding you that the UN Human Rights Council with the known resolution in 2012 had decided that access and free expression on the Internet is a human right. Of course it is an obligation for the state to facilitate access for citizens to the Internet, ensuring quality services and the lowest possible cost. Today, at the age of the krone, access to the Internet is not just a human right, but it is a precondition for the healthy exercise of all other citizens' rights. Inside it, therefore, the reality comes the new investigation by REWHEEL to confirm that among European citizens Greek consumers pay more expensively for mobile data. Unfortunately, our country continues to have the highest tariffs in Europe and the problem you know about it. Mobile phone companies in our country ignore you, Minister. They ignored the Prime Minister for asking for reductions. They also ignored the Minister for Digital Governance six months after the Commission's report on telecommunications and the notification by the Competition Committee of the first REWHEEL study. I stress that despite efforts to reduce data packets, Greek consumers continue to pay for the use of mobile data. As the Competition Committee has announced, there have been reactions from mobile telephony companies, I will present in the minutes the report on 'REWHEEL'. The findings of this new special company are as follows: We remain one of the most expensive countries in the world and the most expensive in the European Union in the cost of telephony data, with the average price being 44 euros, when in many countries the package of unlimited data costs only 30 euros. It is not possible for Greek consumers, whose income level is clearly lower than that of Germans, Italians, British, Austrians, to buy the same amounts of less gigabytes, less speaking time or sms in the various "packs" offered by mobile operators. It is absurd to be one of the most expensive countries in the world in this area, when daily experience shows us that the quality of the network and services offered is not the best possible. I mean, it's not just a matter of cost, but it's also a matter of quality. We are asking you today with this timely question: do you intend, at the end, to ask the mobile operators for a fixed reduction in charges? Do you intend to impose retail price ceilings for the use of services? Europe has done this. Secondly, what do you intend to do to upgrade the existing network and improve the quality of infrastructure for broadband users?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Ahmet. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katrin, too, with the respect you have addressed to me, I think it is inappropriate to demand, in fact, which of the officials of a ministry is what has to come and give the answers to Parliament. You also know very well that this possibility exists for all three of the people who are currently serving at the Ministry of Digital Governance and of course any personal peak against the Minister I think it is wrong for you, but it also unfairs the course and presence of him in this Parliament, which is one of the few ministers who have always been present in all the committees where we have had a bill, which has responded whenever necessary to interventions by Members and of course has done a very great deal of work, which I think has been understood and understood by the entire Greek population. The millions of gov.gr users, the hundreds of thousands of people registered in intangible prescribing applications and everyone else that we have created that provide a great public facility in such a difficult period for their remote service, I think they are actually recording the work that they have done. I think it was unfair and miserable for you to intervene. In any case, your presence in Parliament is also wrong. In relation to your questions, I think you're starting with false data. It is wrong and I am surprised that I really think you are one of the Members of the Greek Parliament, at the times that I have had the opportunity to follow you. I shall start with your first point that we are the only country in the European Union that the Ministry of Digital Governance has recommended to the population that, as far as possible, they do not use the entertainment applications in the morning hours, which are usually the hours of teleworking and teleworking. We're not the only ones. We made a simple recommendation. It must not be missed that the Commissioner responsible, Mr Breton, has intervened with the big companies Netflix, YouTube, asking them to have another quality of content, precisely so that all the other functions can be carried out. He was interfering. He demanded it. I think that this need for the unprecedented conditions we are experiencing makes this simple recommendation quite understandable. Secondly, why do you begin with the conclusion of our failure? You talked about failure, frequent damage and low speeds. You know, there's not just the national network. It is not just infrastructure in the country. I think it has now been understood to everyone, apart from the poor people, that some arrhythmias, which were at the beginning of telecoms, are due to exogenous factors outside the school network and the infrastructure of the country. I think that has also been seen at a pan-European level. In fact, it was recognized by the person who had to be identified, by the person responsible. I think that this debate that we supposedly share education at primary and secondary level because of the resistance of the network is completely wrong and unfair. I know what both the State Secretary and the Minister said. The decision on the way of telecommunications is solely the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, but there are too many factors with which they end up in their final decisions and not just the question of the resilience of the network, as you only want to mention. There are too many factors and we know that. In any case, at the moment, we have a completely smooth flow in both teleworking and teleworking in an unprecedented process, which cannot be compared with other European data, because each country has its own educational network and data are different. In relation to competition and prices, you know very well that last November, just a year ago, a meeting took place at the Prime Minister's initiative with representatives of providers, and that is where they were really asked to assist the country's digital transformation, implementing a more friendly policy in relation to the availability of data and their pricing. Although this has been done, you must be very well aware that in a free economy there is no possibility of regulation and legislative intervention. There's been a recommendation. Since then, what has been demonstrated has been a declining continuing trend in these prices, which is now estimated at around 32%. Last year we have 32% reduction. You refer to the report by a company, which has some findings. I think the most competent response to this issue and to competition and the other issues you have raised is the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, which has launched a study, which will be done, with the country's data at all levels. It's an independent authority. I imagine that the result of this study will be accepted, assessed and seen on this basis if we can overall help the general government policy on abundant data so that it can make use of every aspect, in every daily activity, of every Greek citizen. And, of course, there are many other interventions made by our Ministry to facilitate competition, strengthen infrastructure, and I will have the opportunity to develop you in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katrinis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to make a few things clear. Minister, you know I'm one of the consistent MPs and I ask very often. I do not think that in this Chamber we should say that the Minister's obligation to be present on the legislative initiative, on committees or in plenary is something that needs to be recognised. And I want to assure you that because I am very often in this Chamber I can judge and compare the presence of the ministers in the various ministries when they answer topical questions, and how much more so when they do not deal with local issues, such as Elias, Kilkis, Rhodope, but they are all about the whole country, for which this Minister has often come to the media to say that he has taken terrible initiatives and terrible steps. Secondly, on the question of education, the Ministry of Education is obviously responsible for answering why different working hours were selected. Of course, I remember in March - April - because I also have children who are now primary and high school pupils, in March - April were both primary school students - that there was a different strategy at that time. In any case, the Ministry will answer because it was chosen. Thirdly, for what you said about Breton - because you said I was very read and I would like to confirm what you said - the Commissioner asked the content companies to reduce the video analysis. He didn't ask to reduce the use of the Internet. This is because you are a competent State Secretary, you should know that this is a very big difference of one request from the other request. You said something about the Prime Minister. Indeed, it is an evil coincidence that just a year ago, on November 25, 2019, Mr Mitsotakis called on mobile companies to reduce the high cost. In fact, the Prime Minister said that it is unacceptablely high the cost of using data and asked to reduce and adjust prices downwards, saying, Mr President, 'clean words, clean solutions'. That's what the Prime Minister said a year ago. What happened? Christmas for twenty days has been provisionally given some packages, and then the citizens of our country live, and most importantly, they pay in their pocket the costs for mobile phone data. Does the Change Movement say so? No, obviously not. Does a company say so, as the Minister said? No, obviously, Minister. Because this company operates on the order of the Competition Committee, so it is an investigation that the Competition Committee adopts. To strengthen what you are saying, I am read on page 62 of the Pissaridis report, which is your gospel, it is stated that the cost of mobile phone data in Greece is necessarily high. Pissaridis report, Gospel of your Government: "A more accurate country in a programme with 2GB, 5GB, 10GB, 20GB". We tabled a question with Mr Ahmet in May on high charges. We have asked for a committee to be set up to get the political leadership, for the Committee on Telecommunications and Posts to come in, for the Competition Committee to come in, for the telephone companies to tell us, for them to explain to us whether it is a misunderstanding that we are paying more than anyone else, or a reality. This committee has never been convened. You must therefore emphasise the stimulus of demand by facilitating non-preferential citizens, especially students, students and young workers, for broadband connections and computer acquisition at affordable prices. Networks are developed and operated by private enterprises. Why does competition not work to improve the quality of infrastructure and reduce prices, as is the case in all European Union countries where malfunction is an exception despite having much more and much faster connections than Greece? I am afraid, Minister, because you said about the competent authorities, that the competent authorities are simply justified and sufficient to justify a multi-faceted digital delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u90	Finish, Mr. Catarini, please. We have to hand over the Hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want the tolerance you've shown before, just a minute. Will the government finally address the issue of upgrading infrastructure by leaving communication policy with small projects at a time of rapid digitisation of all productive sectors? Sixteen months we haven't seen any real progress. There are possibilities and tools for upgrading the country's digital infrastructure and, of course, technological progress is such that it allows exponential improvement of infrastructure at lower cost. If you were to take advantage of the possibilities to strengthen competition by facilitating the entry of new providers and combating abuse of a dominant position or of a harmonised practice, you would better serve the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u92	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u93	The maximum speeds are doubled every one to two years allowing increasingly demanding applications, such as high-definition video conferences, which are available in all countries except Greece. Therefore, you must move directly for the benefit of the citizens and for the benefit of the digital transformation of the economy and the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, just a year ago, as Mr Katrinis said, the Greek Prime Minister had identified this problem himself. And the Prime Minister himself took an excellent initiative and invited all mobile companies to make these famous statements and commitments. But then why are we here today? And I think that in this context is the answer why Mr Pierracakis is not here again, because he is exposed to the people, but particularly to the Prime Minister. The Commission - for the Greek people to understand what this is all about - has ordered an independent authority to draw up a report to see if there is competition in Greece between mobile telephony companies. What is the cost of using the data? The Commission itself found that there is a oligopoly in Greece. I am reading to you some of the report: 'A closed oligopolistic market in which three mobile operators operate, a market in the third highest score of a closed oligopoly index between the markets of the Member States of the European Union'. Then what happened? Then comes the Competition Committee, which agrees that there is a competition problem, that is to say, competition in Greece is affected and there is a public dialogue with the Competition Committee and the National Telecommunications Committee. We as a Change Movement have tabled a request, as Mr Katrinis said, and we have said, come to the Committee on Production and Trade and the Committee on Public Administration, that these two committees should be convened together, that the two Ministers come, that the President of the Competition Committee should come to the President of the Post Office and the mobile companies and that they should inform the National Representation, that they should know whether competition is affected and where these high prices are due. But you - and I conclude - did not respond, Mr Minister, to what I said in my timely question. No answer has been given to the cost, not the quality, and much more if you have a plan, so what do you intend to do from now on? Will you follow the Prime Minister's commitment? What the Prime Minister did, what will he have after that? You, as a ministry, as an executive body, as a government what do you intend to do to implement, if you wish, your commitment to the Prime Minister? Unfortunately, we see that neither our request from the committee has been accepted nor has it been convened, nor so far - we will see your second language - we have satisfactory answers in this regard. That is why the Greek people want to know whether in these companies - in introductory terms - some pressures are being put on them. Their objections may also be fair. We don't say anything, as Mr. Katrinis said. But let them come here to this House to submit their views and ask questions from us so that we know exactly what is going on in order to exercise our parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr Ahmet, for keeping time. You're always in time. Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Georgantas, has the floor for his denology for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can agree on two things, on two points which are understood by the Greek people. Data number one. Last year the government, and without having created a subject, as became more intense with the pandemic, called on the companies to become more friendly with their benefits to the citizens, precisely because the digital transformation of the country must be supported and every citizen must have at his disposal a sufficient number of data on his or her work, on his or her education and on his or her entertainment and on all the other services offered by the public administration. Data 2. Last year there has been a continuous downward trend in pricing, which is around 32%. I'm not going into cheap or expensive now. We understand that. The given is one, that we have a continuous downward trend, which touches 32%. That is what we have to keep. Data 3. You all understand very well that competition works by specific rules. There the state's potential is specific and limited in terms of intervention. The important opportunity, however, to develop healthy competition is to give the state, the government, equal opportunities to all and to create those infrastructures so that those who wish to enter the market can be able to operate within it, with the result of healthier competition. So what did the government do about it? The government, in addition to its law to simplify the licensing procedure for antennas, which facilitates anyone who really wishes to enter, did something else very important. Now we have the process with the 5G, which we know very well how decisive it will be for the next generations, how important it will be for our economic development and support for the country's digital transformation. It is therefore possible, on the basis of the spectrum auction, to participate and anyone who does not have the network and until it is built can use the national network through roaming. If this is not easy for anyone who really wants to enter, what is it? We do not know whether there will be a response to this, but we have given it the opportunity. We have, of course, made progress throughout the whole process within a very short period of time for the 5G. They were laws, joint ministerial decisions, a proclamation of competition. In the next month, we'll be done. And, of course, then we'll talk about another era for the country. Of course, we will be talking about other infrastructures. Of course, we'll talk about other networks. Of course, we will be talking about other prices. I think that the networks in the country have responded to the very great demand, which has existed since March and now is something that is understood by each of us. There were only fragmentary very short delays, when other countries with more developed networks had delays, which were more general in nature. It is therefore necessary to support all this effort. You know that the government has given high priority to any action related to digital transformation. Projects will be announced outside of what is "current" at the moment and will facilitate precisely all users in relation to the speeds, programmes that "current" and serve hundreds of thousands of people. There will also be new projects, which will be announced, which will support and support the digital transformation in which we fully believe. Of course, in compliance with the rules and the existing legislation and Community directives, we are trying to strengthen healthy competition by creating those conditions, and on the basis of legislation, but also with infrastructure, which will facilitate anyone who wishes to try this. The "FASSITOS" fund in 5G is innovative. It gives the opportunity for new investment, for new services in this new technological area. It is something that Greece has done all over Europe. No one else has that innovation. And this innovation really gives the opportunity to have new ideas and to be supported in their implementation and implementation. We should not denounce the great effort currently being made by the country at all levels. We must accept and recognise that in very difficult circumstances we have been able to stand up and not just go further than that, we have covered the ground that separated us from the other countries of the European Union. We have in the eight months of operation of gov.gr a very great acceptance from all Greek population. The single digital portal of the public is a fact. At the moment, a large number of our fellow citizens are serving far too many of their services. I therefore think that all parties, in accepting their criticism of specific issues, which must be based on and justified, must support this effort, which is a national effort, and for which our ministry is really doing its best under the circumstances and during the period for which it is finally judged today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too, Minister. This timely question was indeed very interesting and we hope that the country's digital transformation will proceed. We are now entering the second under number 188/23-11-2020 of the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens Headquarters of SYRIZA Mr.Ioannis Balafa, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The delay in the resumption of work of the Palaio Faliro walker". The Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Yiannis Kefaloyiannis. Mr Balafa, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with our timely question, we want to have an answer, we want to be informed responsibly and in particular when the work will finally be completed and when the citizens will be handed over to Poseidon Street, on the border of the Municipality of Palaios Faliros, so that we too can responsiblely inform the municipality, inform the citizens of the city, particularly of a project that is vital and of the traffic in this area in general, but also of the safety of the citizens of the Old Faliroe. And I'd say, not just the Old Faliroe. I would remind you, Minister, that we made a reference on 13 February 2020, following a fatal accident at this point and a resolution of the Old Faliro Municipal Council to your Ministry on the delay of the project. I would also remind you of your reply - it was immediate - on 11 March 2020, where you mentioned in detail: ‘The approved extension of this project has as the date of total closure on 23 September 2020’. Unfortunately, more than two months have passed and this work has not yet been completed. Allow me to point out that this is a project that has been integrated into the design of the General Secretariat of Public Works since 2012, which has been part of the region's priorities over the Region's Rena Durou Region in 2016 when it was auctioned by your Ministry - a total of six hiking bridges in Attica - and for which work has been given various and different timetables to questions from Members of all the parties over the years. Finally, let me mention - you know, of course - that the similar dimensions, data and standards of hiking on the border of the Municipality of Alimos - also on the Poseidon Avenue - has been completed, inaugurated and delivered to the pedestrians, to the citizens. On the basis of the above data, which is in the mind of your Ministry, we would like - today, a concrete answer - to say, no vague timetables - to when the work will be delivered, to inform the citizens of this region as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr Balafa, and especially for keeping time. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u101	My dear colleague, I would agree with you that it is indeed a vital project not only for traffic but also for road safety as a whole. And personally, as a State Secretary for Transport, I tell you that road safety is, at least for the Ministry and for me, one of our main priorities, because we are a country with many road accidents, whether it concerns vehicles involved in these accidents, or pedestrians. So this work, indeed, needs to be integrated into this design. And because you know the personal appreciation I have and I want to be very specific in what I am going to say in this Chamber, I will mention: First of all, you said quite rightly - I will begin with this - that it is not a single project, but it is a subset of six hiking bridges built in the wider area of Attica, namely Alimos, Paleo Faliro, Agia Paraskevi, Heidari, the School of Sheba, in particular, in Palataki and Panormos, in Kifissia. And as you mentioned, there was, unfortunately, a delay in the timetable. I'll be perfectly honest with you. Indeed, there is a delay. I think that no one can dispute that there has been and there is a delay in this work. Of course, I would like to tell you that the services of the Ministry had, in fact, initially estimated that the project would be completed in July 2020. That was the Minister's answer to your question. And when we say 'complete', we actually mean - for people to understand - certain specific tasks that need to be done. In other words, the docks must have been completed - this is the first energy - and then the metalworker must move forward. In other words, the bridge should be built at the factory and then placed at the pedestrian shells. Unfortunately, this hiking bridge has been delayed, but it is not due either to the Ministry's or to the contractor's services. And I want to be specific in this matter. There has been a delay because of the involvement of the Piraeus Forestry on some issues of its competence and, unfortunately, this has taken us back, Mr Colleague, several months. So this involvement of the Forestry, which took us back to practically five to six months, I am glad to say at the moment that it has been overtaken. This means that the work is progressing. In my dentistry, I will mention a specific timetable, so that I do not abuse time. Since you are asking us whether sanctions should be imposed, I will tell you this: because this delay is due to public service actions, obviously the contractor cannot be penalised. This means that, according to also important tender issues - I would like to stress this point - because it is part of the six hiking bridges of Attica, this means that the receipt will take place as a whole. But take note of this so as not to be misunderstood. This does not mean that this bridge is not received. This means that when this particular hiking bridge is completed, which, as I said, I will give you in my denology, is normally received by the Municipality of Palaio Faliro. This is because - I repeat - it is a subset of the whole project and because the contractor is not responsible for this delay, I want to be clear and say that there is no question of sanctions in this regard. I would also like to tell you the timetable specifically for you to know where we are at the moment in work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Minister. Mr Balafas has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. Look, Minister, I do not question your good intention in particular. In order for this procedure of parliamentary scrutiny to be essential, however, I am trying personally and not only to be specific to our questions, not to ask general and grand questions and to have as specific and practical answers as possible for the benefit of the social system as a whole. As well as I am, two months ago in my reply, Mr Karamanlis - the Minister signs the answer to the report - he says very specifically that on 23 September, not after about a semester, not in eight months, the project will be delivered. That's what I think is a matter. Not to deal with in this context, or about in this context, does not look forward to any of us honour. And you know, mechanic is me, I know the delays, I know how contractors get done. But you also accept that there is a long delay and that is crucial. I mentioned you about a fatal accident. Don't mourn anything else. Three kilometers more there is the bridge of Alimos and it has been completed and inaugurated and the world is released and everything is fine. Why can't we just finish this thing? And sanctions are not my main problem with the contractors and the companies that have undertaken the completion of the project. But one company here, one company there, why wouldn't they have finished the work? And that is why the request is - if there is any possibility of course - a commitment by the Ministry at a specific or about a specific date to inform the interested parties as well. That's our problem. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr Balafa. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as you have seen in my prototype, I have answered you about two thirds of your question, namely, the reasons why this project has not been completed. Unfortunately, because you are an experienced engineer, you know that many times there are public services involved in some projects. That is the only reason here. I also told you about the question of sanctions. As far as the timetable is concerned. I told you that thankfully the part of the administrative involvement of the services and in this case the Piraeus Forest has been overtaken. So the situation is as follows: the errors have been made. So there remains the integration of the metal bridge and then its location. And the timetable we have is this: the first phase, namely, the backgrounds and the pit will be built by the end of the year, in other words, the next month. And with regard to the rest of the process, that is, the construction of the metal bridge and then its placement in the acrobats, we will need another two months. This means that at the end of February with the beginning of March this construction will be completed. I repeat that there is no other administrative involvement. And I believe that in the timetable that I put to you today and before the National Representation, we will be precise. Because it has indeed been delayed, too - if you like - I am not very happy about this delay. But in any case, I think that we are indeed in the final straight line and I think that this will be a project that not only the inhabitants of the region, but a total of Attica will enjoy. And especially when all the design with the rest of the four hiking bridges is completed - indeed Alimos has been completed and delivered - I think it will be something that will be a great help to road safety. Of course, once these work has been done - for the formality of mentioning this - the Municipality of Palaios Faliros receives it, which will then be responsible for the maintenance and operation of this hiking bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister, and especially for keeping time. We enter the fifth under No. 183/22-11-2020 current question for the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct concession of an old train station SAE St. Anargyra - Kamaterou to the public without rent". And this question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Kefaliannis. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, we had had a discussion on this matter before. You told me that the extent could not be granted, but then I saw that the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, went to the Agios Anargyros, discussed the matter with the mayor and committed to rendering the extent to society and making the necessary interventions. One year later, we do not have any tangible development, and that is why I am bringing the matter up, because a year has passed since the Prime Minister's announcements and we do not see it coming forward. The Municipality of Agios Anargyros is, as you know, a municipality of western Athens, a municipality where it has maintained a low structure. If we could reverse the very low percentage of green per inhabitant, which currently does not exceed two and a half squares per inhabitant, there could really be a change in quality of life. And we have two chances to do this: the abandoned OSCE train station and Camp 301. I have raised the issues several times with parliamentary questions. If we could release the OSE's abandoned train station to society at the moment, it becomes a first step of great importance because it allows us to connect the centre of the Saints Anargyns through the train and the abandoned lines to the essence and the park "Antonis Tritsis", that is to say, create a green path that is crucial to the quality of life and everyday life of the citizens. So the question is obvious: what has happened a year after the Prime Minister's commitments? And what are you committing yourself here personally, as State Secretary for Transport, to take place in the next period to unblock the region from the downgrading of quality of life, which is due to many causes, but also to the minimum amount of green per inhabitant compared to any other region and to the European average?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, we are indeed coming back a year after our last debate on the issue of the concession of the train station. You remember the answer that I gave you because I want to be as precise as possible in the Chamber, and I do not want to say something that could not be the case. Of course there have been various events since then, and you have also mentioned them. Let us agree, Mr President, that, first of all, such areas are not holes of this kind - if I remember you well described it as a hole in this area - in relation to the urban fabric. Let us say that the inhabitants of St. Anargyros, but also the other areas within and outside the Attica as a whole, can testify that their movements and facilitation through travel, as well as the operation of the suburban railway and their main road corridors are in contact with both the neighbouring municipalities, but also with Attica. In no case is transport projects, therefore, a gap in a map and under no circumstances break the urban fabric. I say this because it is indeed the means of communicating the people of these regions as a whole with the urban complex of Attica. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is concerned, of course, we say yes to the use of public property. I'm telling you because I don't think there's any good service to having some communication fireworks that the ministry supposedly says no to making use of public property, because I've read that too. But the use of public property, Mr Colleague, must be made through a thorough study, there must be a secure viability and, of course, through it - why not? - to create new jobs, which will in fact bring all these benefits to the community as a whole. So I think we can agree in this Chamber that the exploitation of public property is a property of all citizens and, of course, a lot more than that of the people of this region. I think we have a duty to do this in the best possible way. Therefore, a concession that will be unconditional, without preconditions and, above all, without real safeguarding parameters, such as sufficient funding or real planning, I think that under no circumstances does it fit towards the best use of public property. You know, Mr Colleague, it would be very easy for a Minister to say: 'Yes, I am giving this extent to the municipality or to a body, etc.'. He'd be very good. The point is that the concession itself if it stays there will not have the effect we want. I think that you, too, have as a mere concession, but that concession will also lead to an improvement. As long as there are no such parameters that I described earlier, however, I am very afraid that such actions will not have the effect which I think we can agree in this Chamber that there should be. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Already, I remind you that the people of the region enjoy urban regeneration, basketball courts, tennis courts, children's playgrounds, bicycle streets on an area of one thousand eighty-seven meters, which came from - and I recall - from the projects carried out to immerse the St. Anargyra railway station. I would therefore like to say that intervention has been made both in the area and through regeneration, in fact the inhabitants enjoy these interventions. I shall therefore return - and I shall conclude my prototype - that, in fact, in order to make the real use of the space, all the parameters will have to be considered. We need to see sustainability. For example, the renovation of the land buildings must be considered. It must be taken into account to ensure adequate accessibility conditions for citizens. All of this at the moment is at a very first stage. In any case, then, all the parameters need to be examined from there, and I think we should see what the best use of the space is. I repeat that only concessions, to say that we have done one thing without any plans, do not serve anyone and certainly does not serve the citizens of the region either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the truth is I'm having trouble watching you. We are talking about an area where there are two and a half square greens per inhabitant. Are you telling me about the commercial exploitation of public property? I don't know exactly what you mean. It is the only thing that the Prime Minister has done in his constituency. He's done one thing. He hasn't dealt with HYTA. Or rather, he's involved in perpetuating him. He did not deal with the claims of the Lamia Temple, he did not deal with critical issues, he subordinates the "Lomamons". He did one thing. He pledged to assign the train station to the local society. Over here, if you wish, you can tell me a thousand terms and conditions so that the concession will never be made, which should be granted to the local society. Will the UCLAF grant its lines? Will GIAOSE grant this space? And how is this concession going to be made? Will it be in exchange for these citizens who have a right to breath? Honestly, we need to start asking for some data. Do we have as a state to offer an equal percentage of green with any other European citizen or any other citizen in Greece or not? If it is our obligation, it must be implemented by the means we have. You spoke about the structures that operate. We have abandoned infrastructure, abandoned lines, an abandoned train station. We're not talking about infrastructure in use. We're talking about something that's there and it's devastated. Are we going to give it to society to use and give a breath, become part of the improvement of quality of life, instead of being part of further degradation? So really the questions are very specific. What will the OSE do with the remaining abandoned lines? What about GIAOSE in this case? It's over your department. But, because it is so much about you, because it is about transport and transport - abandoned infrastructure, but it doesn't matter - you will see to it that you strengthen the municipality's capacity to restore this area? Will you suggest to your colleagues from the Ministry of the Environment that this project should be included in the Green Fund? There are specific things I want you to answer. Because you told me that you wanted to be specific, please become specific in how this sole commitment, the Prime Minister's only action for his constituency will take the flesh and bones and it was not just a statement of customary nature on his visit to Saints Anargyros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr Arseny. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u113	Colleague, I'm going to talk about something you mentioned in your dentistry. I never said it was infrastructure in use. I'm talking about the Minutes, because I think you might have misinterpreted it somewhere. In no case did I talk about infrastructure that is not abandoned, indeed. I now told you, if you remember, in our previous debate that I am at your disposal and at the disposal of the municipality to provoke one, and if you wish - now with the epidemiological data, it is difficult - teleconferencing or later, if conditions allow, a real real debate, to involve the local players, as well as the citizens. Because I repeat, it is very easy in this Chamber to say that you give up one or the other, without a specific plan. I am at your disposal and at the disposal of the municipality to have this essential debate and to see with one particular, if you like, a timetable and an action chart how we can move forward. As I have said, there is a need for a set of forecasts in order to be practical in this process. And I talked about the accessibility of residents and visitors. You guys only stayed on the piece of commercial use. I have talked about ensuring the safety and direct movement of citizens, the preservation and enhancement of the particular nature of these buildings - we need to see all this - the maintenance of the facilities and yes and the viability of the project, my colleague. Why not? We are not only talking about granting and exploiting it as a green area. We need to see whether there can be some activities from which the local residents will benefit. Jobs will be created. I do not think we disagree in this Chamber. And the municipality may have some revenue. All this must be the subject of a substantial debate, if you like. I've told you too, and I've said it publicly and elsewhere, where I've been asked. I think that, because of its size, this can indeed be a lever of development not only for the Municipality of Saints Anargyra, but for the Municipality itself could be the core of developing synergies with the neighbouring municipalities, taking advantage of this area. In no case can I see, therefore, that it really needs to be made best use of it, possibly along with a metric rail network in the region, to which the Prime Minister referred during his visit, a development of possible local railway transport. It's something that the municipality asks, many citizens' bodies over there. So I want to tell you that this is a holistic plan, which we need to see, in order to get to the point of making use of. I say to you - and it goes without saying - that in this respect all the relevant services of the Ministry and the railway bodies, namely OSE and GAIAOSE, will contribute to the extent of their responsibilities and with the know-how which they have at every stage in the creation, documentation, control and implementation of such a proposal. Mr President, I repeat that if the conditions allow it in the next few months and through a substantial dialogue, not empty content, we must have agreed on this timetable, as the Ministry will but also the government as a whole, on the use of the OSE train station in the area of Saints Anargyr. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too, Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-27-S1-commons.u115	With the consent of the House at 11.49 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, November 30, 2020, at 15.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
