ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Justice, Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, and the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs have tabled a draft law on 21-10-2020: 'Agreements to speed up pending cases under Law 3869/2010 in accordance with the requirements of Article 6(2). 1 ECHR regarding the reasonable duration of the political trial, amendments to the Code of Lawyers and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Friday 23 October 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 65/16-10-2020 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘It is difficult to absorb compensation from the affected by Evia’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Main issue of the dismantling of high-voltling air lines by the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou and their replacement with high-voltage underground cables". 3. The question asked by MP B1's North Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increasing and inappropriate police violence against peaceful protesters". B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 79/19-10-20, a topical question by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Theodoras Jakris to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The disinvestment of SIEMENS" and the departure of PITSOS to Turkey." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Development and Investment, dated 74/19-10-2020, of the current question by the Member of the Elijah Movement of Change Mr.Michalis Katri to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Insecurity and uncertainty for the workers of the Scaramaga shipyards'. 3. The Question No 64/15-10-20, by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Surrency and asymmetric violence against citizens gathered at the celebration of democracy against the crime organisation Golden Dawn". 4. The question raised by Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, dated 76/19-10-2020, by Mr. Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Small the budget for Crete in the Finance Programme". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Courture charges and three nights in GDR for a fourteen-year-old student for protesting." 6. The 77/19-10-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on "Support for regional media". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question under number 80/19-10-20, by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Governmental reward for illegality in Io". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Consolidation of debts and the provision of a second chance'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 15 October 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. I think we agree on the basic principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Be careful now, there is an objection of unconstitutionality tabled by the party of Greek Solution through Mr. Heta. I would ask that it be taken seriously, that it be distributed to the parties and to the government because, as you can see, it should be read and studied by the Members who are going to speak. I think it is right that it should be debated immediately after the rapporteurs and speakers to have a picture of what the anti-constitutional objection contains. I am now briefed by Mrs Perifanou - I do not know if it is on the same subject, I have not been able to read - and Merra25 has raised a objection of unconstitutionality. I'm just not clipping to tell you if it's on the same grounds or on the same basis, but it doesn't matter. So they will both be discussed together as soon as the first six rapporteurs and speakers are finished. They must be shot and distributed. I will give Mr Loverdos the floor for a minute, but as soon as Mr Stavros and Mr Georgiadis have spoken, I do not know what exactly is why I have not read it - about the bill. There are four pages of legislation that will be distributed. So it will not develop the four pages, but I understand some of the articles in question. The rest will be read by yourself. Mr Stavura, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning. We will be tabling a series of legislative improvements in plenary on the draft law which we are discussing. Basically, they are legislative improvements that I had pre-empted my colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Among other things, it concerns the issue of impoverishedness, where for some who were not clear, it becomes absolutely clear. There are issues relating to income, where, as we said, clean income is understood, that is to say, after tax and social security contributions have been deducted. A series of legislative improvements to the Scientific Service of the Parliament are also included. Others will follow because the report came out late last night. I would like to stress, however, and this is particularly interesting, that the Scientific Service of the Parliament, as you will have seen, does not give any thought or opposition to any article - I say that for the application for unconstitutionality - of the draft law on the settlement of debts and the provision of a second chance. Also, deletion - and here there is no question from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, I stress, there is no mention - of Article 100, but in this case we are doing the deletion of the relevant words so that there is no doubt or no concern to anyone. I am therefore presenting this particular argument in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u4	And Mr. Georgiadis obviously wants the floor. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Just because the Scientific Committee of the Parliament has raised two objections to Rule 268 - one change I had already explained it to the committee, but the Scientific Committee has ruled on the original wording - we will make two legislative improvements to Article 268. The first is in Article 268(4). The words ‘until the entry into force of this Regulation’ shall be replaced by ‘until the entry into force of this Regulation with the exception of contracts in which, whether no premium adjustment is foreseen or a fixed premium adjustment is provided for’. That's what I was talking about in committee. We are making this clearer, so that there is no doubt - because there the Scientific Committee raises doubts as to whether or not the provision is in charge of those insurance contracts which provide for unilateral adjustment by insurance companies as we are talking about today and not those which have either been locked or specific. So I'm rereading the first change. It shall be replaced by: ‘until the entry into force of this Regulation with the exception of contracts in which, whether no premium adjustment is foreseen or a fixed premium adjustment is provided’. So we're treating the one main objection. And for the second time, how to ensure that the criteria are specific and transparent in terms of how the increase is to be made, we are making the following changes. In the last subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 2a of Article 268, the words 'by decision of the Minister for Development and Investment may be defined' - that is to say now - is replaced by the words 'by a Presidential Decree adopted on the proposal of the Minister for Development and Investment'. Therefore, instead of adopting a ministerial decision, we will issue a presidential decree, which will pass through the preventive control of the Council of State, so that it is clear that the measures will be fully transparent and specific. I already told you in committee that our aim is to put the health index of IOBE, which we regard as the most fair and transparent indicator in Greece, but in any case, in order that no one has any concern, we will go to the presidential decree, there will be preventive control and we will go further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Loverdo, I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Loverdo, what do you want to take the floor for?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u8	I would like to speak to Mr Stakoura on a political issue. I know that the constitutional and procedural issues are raised before the procedure. I must admit that I have no such thing to raise. But, as has been done on several occasions, especially with the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, I would also like to speak for one or a half minutes. It's a political matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u9	For two minutes, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, today Parliament is discussing a draft law which regulates four economic issues very seriously, as we believe, in a negative way. Mr. Katrinis, with a very diligent intervention, criticised. The confrontation that the Minister has chosen to do - does not honour what he has done - is to confront us with the past, with our party and insult us. I don't raise a personal issue, I raise a political issue. I would like to remind him - and I would like to close - that in the 2009 elections he was a Member of Parliament at that time - his government was passing the country's debts and the expenditure of that year in the election period with a scary amount. I would also say to him that, when I received from Mrs Petralia the Ministry of Labour, the current Mayor of Amarousi, who supported him by New Democracy, was behind Mrs Petralia and told me that if I did not find EUR 2.5 billion in a few hours, we would not have had to pay the pensions in December and the Christmas gifts. When this is the situation, Mr Stagioras, who was a member of the majority, must not dare say that we have thrown the country into the memorials and that we have taken the place we deserve in the political system of the country. He doesn't do it accidentally. It does not want to discuss this draft law, because it has no confidence in its provisions. In general, we are being debated in an unacceptable way, unethical, anti-parliamentary. But it will take all the answers that are worth putting it throughout today's process. And one last thing. When you've participated in an effort to rebuild the country and you've felt who they were and who didn't put back when you know that you formed together with the "bruised" and the "sprayed" the famous antimony front, you must today be much more careful about what you say when you go to PASOK and the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u11	Now here's what I'm going to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Levane, Mr. Stakouras will answer. That's where he was headed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u14	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u15	No, you won't. Mr. Staruras. You're the same. Mr Stavros will answer on behalf of the New Democracy and the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u16	I'd like politically. Mr. Loverdos put it politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u17	Well, I want to inform you that today, if we do not go to a disciplined debate and because it is certain that there will be a roll-call vote - so far the Bureau has not been informed, but I believe that it will be done - we will arrive at hours of punctual memory of the first half of 2015 for the older ones. I'm warning you, to make sure we have to work. Mr Stavura, you have the floor for two minutes too. Because Mr. Loverdos told you by name, come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u18	It's not personal. It's a political matter. I have nothing personal with Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u19	Mr Colleagues, first of all, the terms 'do not dare be placed' would never be reversed. Everyone has the freedom to be placed as he appreciates. Secondly, I am proud of the fact that I am serving and serving over time, because, as we have said many times in this Chamber, despite the mistakes, the omissions we have all made in the country have proved - and I have tabled tables - has the most positive sign for the Greek society and the economy. So I spoke on specific tables and the evidence proves the correctness of my arguments. If I now talked about the substance of the bill, please see the Minutes and you will find that in the past few days I spent two hours and ten minutes to answer both parties and institutions and society. There has been substantial dialogue, there has been a dialogue in which, as you see today, there are legislative improvements. I put forward arguments. So you can't tell me I'm throwing the ball in the platform. When some people feel uncomfortable, they throw the ball at the platform.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u20	And to conclude, Mr. Stakoras answered on behalf of the government. Mr Lebanese has two minutes to answer the question on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u21	Because we have all followed the dialogue in the committees and the representative of the Change Movement today has made this position on how Staikoras spoke, I would like to say that, contrary to what you said, it was your rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, who started to turn the debate back. Our position is given for that period. Kostas Karamanlis as Prime Minister warned in time about the difficulties of the economy. He proposed and took restrictive measures. Mr. Papandreou did not follow him then. He went to the elections with the well-known motto "they exist". He took the election. He set up the story of the iceberg. It led us to the memorials and then, we know what the course of the Greek economy and suffering was. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From there on, after this process led us by George Papandreou - and here it is useful to make your self-criticism - our prolongation along with the Venizelos PASOK rescued the country, lifted the country up again on its feet to get to the known SYRIZA period. It is clear that Mr Stakoras, with four speeches in the committees, responded to all criticism, was placed on all issues of the bill in particular. And the reason is exactly the opposite of what the representative of the Change Movement said, because we are proud that we believe that today's bill we will be voting on at the end of the day is the first holistic and comprehensive solution to the problem of both private and private debt and private debt. So we are proud, as the Minister has said, of our resignation, that we have laid the foundations for the economy throughout the entire New Democracy and we are proud of the bill that we are going to vote on today, just to rebuild the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u22	All right, well, I'm reminiscing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Heta, you will speak when it is your time. That is why the debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Constantopoulos, you are an old colleague. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u28	So I'm recapitulating. The two objections to anti-constitutionalism - elsewhere they coincide - will not coincide with a sloppy look - will be discussed as soon as Mr Kriton Arsenis comes down from the Step. So they have to, why would they read them to answer you? You guys are prepared. You are young and you do not know the parliamentary procedure. This is the right parliamentary procedure. From that point on, the records start now. Open the registration system. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Rousopoulos, will be speaking and the entries will be closed as soon as the SYRIZA's general rapporteur, Mr Ahtsoglou, comes down from the Step. Here, Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a law is judged at three levels, on the intentions of the legislator, on the imprint of reality, to give the most realistic and socially sensitive solutions and on how effective it is when it is now implemented. The third, of course, is entirely up to two of the previous ones. I am therefore convinced that this law meets the criteria and will be judged positively in its implementation. The three cornerstones of the bill to be passed are: to prevent, treat and reboot. Prevention, in order to avoid bankruptcy, by using a package of innovative tools introduced by the law, so that those who enter the bankruptcy process are properly and quickly released from debt and restart to the second opportunity, which opens the way for a new start, that is, a second chance in their lives without the burdens of the past. We are all aware that over-inflated debt limits the country's productive potential and leads to over-debted debtors in captivity and burden-sharing in the next generations. The philosophy of the legislator has as the starting point the prevention of bankruptcy and then the best way to deal with it if it is unavoidable. A system of early warning for the natural or legal person is first introduced so that they can take the necessary steps before they are ‘red’ their obligations to prevent bankruptcy. A new electronic early warning mechanism for debtors is being established in this context. The public creates from scratch a new electronic platform which will prevent the debtor from entering into a state of incompatibility with his obligations when it is too late. The platform introduces the elements of its real economic situation and with the assistance of specialised employees from the borrower's centres in time the problem will be understood before it becomes a big and unsolved one. The prevention procedure shall be divided into two parts. The first relates to the out-of-court settlement mechanism and concerns natural and legal persons. The second relates to the resolution process and concerns only companies. Not only is the possibility for legal persons, but also for natural persons, to regulate their debts up to two hundred and forty instalments, that is, in twenty years, to their creditors, financial institutions, public and insurance funds. The procedure for the extrajudicial settlement conducted exclusively through an electronic platform will be completed in a record time within two months of the submission of the request. The application shall be submitted by the debtor on his own initiative or following a call by his creditors. As long as the proposal for regulation is accepted by the debtor and by a majority of the financial institutions, then a restructuring contract of his debts is signed and subsequently accepted by the public and social security institutions. As regards the restructuring of undertakings, the bill is harmonised under Directive 1023/2019. A register of experts supervised by the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debt and composed of natural and legal persons providing financial advisors shall be established in order to meet the needs of the extrajudicial mechanism and the pre-judicial resolution process. The bill does not just look to the past, it introduces processes for the future, for those who find themselves in a difficult financial situation and want to protect their first residence and other property. So, for example, someone who wants to protect this property and is aware of a debtor, practicing the extrajudicial procedure, will have the possibility for five years to receive a grant from EUR 70 to EUR 210 per month for his first residence. It is a significant help for a long and reasonable period of time, until the debtor goes beyond the difficult period that suddenly happened in his life. Apart from the grant of the rent, however, it is possible to repay its debt by regulation of twenty years rather than ten, as is the case until now. This is a real state aid to the tested citizen, provision, early warning and a new more favourable debt arrangement. There is, however, also the charge of our fellow citizens who, as debtors, have come to the forefront of pause of payments and become blocked of time-consuming bankruptcy procedures. The bill divides bankruptcy into two small items, depending on the number of employees, the turnover, or the fixed assets of a company - and other major bankruptcys. Small bankruptcies will now be dealt with by the pacifist courts so that thousands of cases - as is the case today - are not accumulated in the multinational prototypes, which will henceforth be dealt with in the other major bankruptcys. The procedure must have been completed within 12 months of the declaration of bankruptcy and not drawn to a depth of many years, even decades, as is unfortunately the case so far. If the court has not completed the proceedings within 12 months - or within three years, as provided for in the large-enterprise bill - then this institution of accountability which introduces this bill - and is also innovative - controls the judge by a competent court and is obliged to report to the court because he has been delayed. Where bankruptcy concerns a legal person and is not what we have said - a small subject - there are two alternative forms of bankruptcy, whether the whole undertaking or parts of it is liquidated or if this is not done within eighteen months, its individual assets are sold. The most important regulation, however, is the provision of a real second opportunity which stipulates that the debtor - a natural person - does not lose his licence to pursue a profession and can therefore soon proceed to the creation of a post-court property. Acquisition - despite what has been said in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - is a new, indefensible process of bankruptcy, with only one exception, if it is shown that bankruptcy was fraudulent, so that the bankrupt is not entitled to this privilege of reopening without having paid beforehand. To say this briefly, they are fully exempted from all their debts within three years of the declaration of bankruptcy, contributing to a partial repayment of debts if their income during this period exceeds reasonable costs, as the law of SYRIZA set these costs. In case of liquidation of fixed assets of significant value, the exemption comes one year after the declaration of bankruptcy. In this case, debtors - natural persons - shall be obliged to pay part of their income for the repayment of their debts only when they exceed five times the reasonable cost of living. The inconsistency of EUR 1,250 per month remains inconsistent, as is explicitly provided for in the law, and I would point it out in response to those who have also attempted to support the opposite. The debt relief and the provision of a second chance - I repeat - are attributed to honest debtors and not to strategic poor payers. The new law provides for cross-checking and removal of confidentiality in order to find out who the actual weak and who the fraudulently have concealed income. The legislator, in other words, is trying to put an end to the usual - unfortunately - to date a phenomenon where a company is bankrupt, but the so-called owner of the company had a strong personal property at the time. In addition, the regulation awaiting thousands of households who have been in the period of crisis until now has been introduced, which has led to the conclusion of the auctioning of their first home. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not an easy exercise to process the government's financial staff. The bitter truth is that many families face the spectra of eviction. In accordance with Article 219 of the bill, debtors belonging to a vulnerable social group will be able to contact a new acquiring and renegotiating body, who will buy the property that would with mathematical certainty be auctioned and purchased before that happens. These families will be able to stay for twelve years in the house that I repeat would be auctioned, paying to the renting agency, while maintaining the right to buy the house within or after 12 years. Moreover, these vulnerable debtors will receive a housing allowance from EUR 70 to EUR 210 per month, i.e. the state will cover them an important part of the rent for a house which I will say for the third time, based on the current mathematical certainty. The Qualified Opposition has argued in committee that it had a plan to extend the first residence, but was unable to bring it in 2019. We can be confronted for hours and with certainty, I assume that this will happen today at our meeting, whether or not it had agreed with the institutions on the expiry of the protection or whether it did protect it, since it was also with its legal framework when it did not pay three instalments of loan it was faced with the certain issue. The arguments on both sides and virtual truths have been spoken and will be heard here again today. The political reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that if he really wanted to make certain protective arrangements, he had all the time to do so in almost five years of governance and did not. If nothing else, today's regulation achieves the best possible result and protects to the maximum the social dignity of those who would find themselves on the road from one moment to another on the other - as I said - exterior, dignity that all Greek citizens and especially the weakest strata of our society are entitled to receive from the global economic crisis. With these thoughts, I invite you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u30	Mrs Ahtsoglou is called to Step by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today covers all the stages of the life of a citizen who has been found at some point to owe the banks mainly to the public and also to other creditors. That is why what is envisaged within this bill is absolutely identical to the way in which the government sees the issue of overcompensation, but also, above all, the view from which this issue is viewed and then tries to deal with it. This bill expresses an overall philosophy, and it is precisely on this philosophy that we are not just disagreeing, but strategically being opposed. The government sees the problem of private debt as a problem of liquidation. The problem, in its opinion, is that citizens' assets are not liquid enough to satisfy creditors. Otherwise it cannot be explained why in the bill as the first priority is the liquidation of everything at all costs. The government sees the indebted households, the citizens, first of all as strategic bad payers. He considers that they are solely responsible for their debts, because they did not make prudent management because they chose not to pay. Otherwise, it does not explain why it does not let them have any reason at any stage in this process of 'confronting' the problem, because it is dealing with them as fully insolvent, because it is evading them from what they have and they do not have, because it is failing them, because it is stigmatizing them both materially and socially, because it takes them what they have in future, because it chooses to punish them even criminally, as I will explain to you. The Government considers that the problem of accumulated debts is a problem of limited bankruptcy, the limited number of bankruptcys, that there are not enough bankruptcys. There is the problem, and so if they become faster, easier, if they become general, then the problem will probably be solved. Otherwise, it is not explained why it chooses the almost automatic bankruptcy of 81% of small businesses, as the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises themselves themselves put forward and I submit in the minutes the relevant memorandum from the GATT. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Otherwise, it does not explain why it chooses to extend compulsory bankruptcy to natural persons, pensioners, free-traders, employees, households by way of derogation from any principle that we could have in our legal culture since the establishment of the Greek state. Finally, the government seems to see the whole question from the point of view of banks, from the point of view of unfair creditors who have trusted and borrowed and who are now at risk of balance because of the insolvency of their debtors. Otherwise, it is not explained why the keys are being given to the banks to determine almost everything in the whole process, than whether there will be an out-of-court compromise, what content he will have, whether a man will go bankrupt, how this man will go bankrupt, how the auctions, what economic transactions will continue, what economic transactions will be interrupted, all fixed by them. It does not explain why, in this bill, they are literally granted the total freedom to manipulate everything, without anyone having a say, or the state, without committing themselves to anything, without being forced for anything, only to be entitled to it. This is what the government sees in the debt problem of households and businesses. What doesn't he see? It does not see the economic root of the problem of overcompensation for households, the objective conditions that may lead a household, a citizen to be unable to pay some of his debts. It does not see what has happened with the banks throughout the time of the crisis. It does not see the new economic crisis that has erupted, the new wave of unemployed people, the new wave of debt created, the new wave of reduced incomes that is eroding above societies at the moment. It does not ultimately see the problem from the point of view of people who have been unemployed during the crisis. It does not see the problem from the point of view of the employee who has dropped his wages very much in the midst of a pandemic crisis. It does not see the problem on the part of the professional who has demolished its turnover during the period of this pandemic crisis on the part of the small enterprise which has been demolished. And since the government does not see the problem from this point of view, which is, in fact, the view of the people and the view of the middle class, i.e. it does not see the problem from the point of view of the trunk of Greek society, I will try to present it to you from this point of view, so that there is no longer any doubt about what exactly this bill does. A hired man, a household with debts goes to the bank and asks to settle his debt out of court. The bank answers: "I don't want to set you up. I don't want to propose to you. I prefer you to go bankrupt." This absolute freedom gives her this bill. If he wants to, he's making an adjustment proposal. If he doesn't want, he doesn't do and he can lead the citizen, the natural person, to bankruptcy. However, even if it decides to make a proposal for a regulation, the content only defines it as it wants, without a commitment, without conditions, without rules. That's what the bill says. It imposes its proposal on both the public and says to the company or household: 'Take it or lead it', that is: 'This is it. Take it if you want. If you don't want it, go bankrupt." This is the famous prevention, in which the government is investing all its arguments these days and says in the Opposition: "You are unfair. You do not see all the previous stages and you focus on bankruptcy." This is prevention. You're saying that's not what we're talking about. But what about this? You put natural persons, citizens, in a process completely manipulated by banks. What about that? There's no rule, there's nothing. We are, therefore, returning to the place of the employee with debts and debts of the household, which the bank did not do to them to propose or which made them a proposal which they could not comply with, otherwise they would still respect their debts. The bill says, therefore, that "Anyone who does not repay 40% of his dues for six months and his debt exceeds 30,000 euros is bankrupt". It's a horizontal criterion, extended for all. So, from now on, the employee goes bankrupt and the household goes bankrupt, as is another company going bankrupt. To date, only one company or trader has been bankrupt in our country because it has been linked to the risk of business, the financial risk it assumes, and that is the concept of bankruptcy. Now everyone's going bankrupt. What does it mean to someone that he's bankrupt? Man loses everything he has and doesn't have the moment of bankruptcy. Who defines the whole process? Who defines the lawyer, i.e. who will organise the auction, chooses what transactions will take place, etc.Huh? The bank defines it, while so far it has been designated by the court. So any trace of impartiality in the procedure also ceases. So he loses everything the bankrupt citizen loses. But that's not all. What does it mean to be bankrupt? Poverty means you're financially neutralized, completely locked up in an economic prison. You can't do anything, you can't even accept financial support from your family, for example. I invite you to consider the case of a farmer who will go bankrupt tomorrow, who will have these debts and automatically go bankrupt. He's gonna lose his field and his machines and he won't be able to accept a reinforcement from his family to do something. What will that man do in his life? How's he gonna get back on his feet? It's still not just that, because the bill introduces another innovation. It does not only say what it has and does not, it is not just that it is bankrupt and, therefore, it is entering this economic prison and neutralisation, but also what will result from there and beyond the reasonable living costs - Mr Roussopoulos, ELSTAT defines reasonable living costs, not SYRIZA, if that is what is going to go beyond EUR 611. Do you see any protection here? Do you see any care here, no second chance? Because we don't see. I do not think anyone else sees, that is, the banks. And the bankrupt man is accompanied by criminal responsibility. A citizen will be found to face imprisonment because, for example, he chose to pay a instalment of him to the public, instead of the bank, considering a man, like every average person, to do something right. This, however, will be uneconomical, as criminal provisions say and man will be found to have committed an offence and to have criminal responsibility. Do you see how crystal-clear this bill bears witness to your view of citizens with debts that are a vision of strategic malpractices and that, ultimately, liquidation is the only concern and the only priority? Where's that further evidence to prove to be? Proof of your prediction that dirty money laundering seized will be released, he says, for the satisfaction of the creditors. What is the state doing? The state will remove the situation it has made in crime products in fact, in order to satisfy creditors, to pay banks. At this point is the insistence on liquidation and the insistence on satisfying the requirements of the banks. I shall now refer to the vulnerable debtors, for whom very much discussion has been held on alleged protection. Vulnerable, he says, is the man whose income does not exceed 7,000 euros a year. That's the vulnerable. Not everyone else has any care. It means everything I've already described. For anyone who makes up EUR 7 000 a year there will be special protection. What exactly is this special protection? The vulnerable also loses his home properly. We need to explain this and make it clear once and for all. And for the vulnerable debtor there is no protection of the first residence, to say it for the third time in Parliament's discussions. Residence protection means property. It means the citizen owns, owns his home. That's the concept of protection. In this bill no one - but no one - will own their home. Nobody! Neither is the vulnerable! That is why we are talking about a horizontal and definitive abolition of first home protection, and that is a political reality. In the case of vulnerable, the ownership of the house is taken by this renegotiation agency, which is a private body, a fund that is obviously linked to the bank. What care does the government give? It says you can stay in this house, pay a rent for twelve years - if you don't pay rent for three months, there's an eviction - and at the end of this 12-year time you can buy the house back at the commercial value that the property will have, without including what you've given so many years to rent and without including what you've given at the start of the loan, until it's reddening. And because it is obvious that a person who has gone bankrupt, who has lost everything he has and who has not, has taken it, and what he gets out of over 611 euros and will pay rent, cannot be found in twelve years to buy, obviously, his home - what capital he will have under these conditions in twelve years - most likely he will be forced to re borrow it if the bank re-borrows it. That is why, basically, all this bill does is make the citizens a hostage to the creditors. That's why I think it's really outrageous to have the title of second chance this bill, unless we mean a second chance for the banks. There yes, we will agree, because this is a second chance for the banks. So, what does the government answer all these days to SYRIZA, Opposition, operators, representatives of small businessmen, consumers, lawyers, who raise all these issues over and over again? First, you say: 'Okay, there will be an employee, a household, for three years, who will lose everything, stay on the road, be found in this economic prison, but will be relieved, cleaned after three years'. But the exemption is already provided for in the existing legal framework. Natural persons and households are exempted for three years. It is a general rule of the Katseli Act, in Article 8, and it remains in force normally. They're exempted in three years. With the current regime, therefore, the natural person is relieved of his debts in three years, keeping the ownership of his home and not going bankrupt. Your regime is relieved in three years if he loses everything and the ownership of his house and goes bankrupt already! Is it possible to claim that this is a better framework for the citizen? I submit for the record this article of the Katseli Act, in case no one knows it. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, it says the bankruptcy of natural persons, because that is what the European Union directive of 2019 says, with which we are in line. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's completely false. All that the directive says is that there must be a framework for the discharge of natural persons who owe themselves in a reasonable time. Such a framework can exist - and there is, as I have already explained, in Greece - without, of course, having to go bankrupt and lose what it has and has not. The rest are your political choices. I am presenting to the Minutes and the critical articles of the directive that confirm what I have just said. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thirdly, the government says: "The debtor pays over time to save his home and that is what is done with this bill". But with this bill, the debtor doesn't pay to save his home. The debtor loses his house and pays. In other words, we do not have a submissive connection 'paying to save', but we have an overriding connection 'and I lose and I pay'. Fourthly, this bill - and I heard it again today - gives, he says, dignity, because no one will be on the way. You're lying. Anyone who makes more than 7 000 euros will be on the road and will be bankrupt, that is, all the middle-class he owes, and many low-pays. Anyone who makes less than 7,000 euros and rents his house if he delays three rents again will be on the way. And I think it is rather outrageous to say that there is social care and a guarantee of dignity, when the poorest will lose everything and because a few of them will be able to rent their home, that would be a catalytic protection, as I have heard they call Members of the New Democracy. Fifth, in the concerns of the whole world, that we are in front of a very big, new economic crisis, a period of uncertainty and such a draft generalised bankruptcy law is the charismatic shot, you say, "Don't worry, because if something happens, we will predict deferrals of payments, as we did in the pandemic." And you really think the world will be relieved of this? I wonder, there's a very big contradiction here. You come and legislate that people go bankrupt, because they are not consistent with their payments, when you are postponing payments at the same time because of a pandemic. In other words, you seem to recognise that there is at the moment an objective impossibility to pay, and yet you come and legislate on generalised bankruptcys. And sixth, to close it, you say that your government has what it has to legislate, legislate it in time and order. Is that so? Mr. Mitsotakis has pledged to the PPC that he will ban auctions by the end of the year, in 2020, leave 2021 when this abortion comes. Did he commit? He made a commitment. Did she legislate? He didn't legislate. He has not been legislated and we have also made an amendment from the SYRIZA to act on this commitment and you have rejected it without question. He didn't legislate, you let it be handled by the banks. You didn't legislate. The State does not, however, regulate by agreement between private operators and private financial institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u32	Mrs. Ahchioglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u33	I shall conclude, Mr President. The state regulates by law and the famous proclamation for the end of 2020, end of auctions, do you know how it is implemented? I mean, I have to tell the citizens of the country that they are not in the first place in the world. Soridon. That's what's going on out there and ask two lawyers who handle cases overdebted to see what's going on. I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen, with what I have started. Our political conflict is based on the strategic perception of this bill. It does not see the economic root of the problem, it does not see the problem from the point of view of the employee, from the point of view of the free worker, from the point of view of the household that created debts during the crisis, it does not see the problem coming. And this is perhaps the most important one and the most crucial one. The time you choose to bring this bill, in the middle of a major economic crisis, into the middle of a suffocation that has again been created for households and businesses. At the time that all European countries are currently suspending all enforcement measures, you are bringing bankruptcy bills for uncontrolled and rapid bankruptcy. And unfortunately, I fear that you will not only find it in front of you, but we will all find it, and society will also find it. That is why we are obviously voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u34	Please close the registration system. The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, at a very difficult time for the country and after a ten-year crisis that has depleted the limits of society, the government brings a bill with the tough title 'Second opportunity' and leads businesses to massive bankruptcies instead of supporting them, while leaving the first home unprotected, describing all debtors as'strategic malpractices'. And of course, we will agree that in a country with a private debt of EUR 234 billion, a modern framework is needed that supports sustainable businesses and quickly clears up unsustainable ones, so that the market can function and give the businessman a second chance. We in the Change Movement understand the need for this framework, for early warning, for restructuring businesses, for regulating debts and speeding up bankruptcy procedures where there really is no prospect. That is why we first proposed the establishment of a intergroup committee of Parliament in May for the protection of first residence and a modern bankruptcy framework. All parties agreed other than New Democracy, which chose to consult the banks, the funds and the institutions. But does the bill work that we're talking about? Unfortunately, even the resolution is dealt with by the government as a means of satisfying creditors as much as possible. It does not adopt the spirit of the European directive, which is supposed to follow, having been motivated mainly by bankruptcy and not by the early warning of companies, it does not incorporate Article 23 of the European directive protecting the principal residence of the trader, while in most European countries it attempts to prevent bankruptcy, with the debtor being placed at the heart of protection, such as Italy, Spain, Portugal, France and even Germany. And it is no coincidence that all market operators expressed serious reservations and strong arguments about the new bankruptcy, which comes at a very difficult time. But what is the current juncture? Red loans exceed 40% - do not talk about cooperative banks, because that is where the index is even greater - and they will still be added 8 to 10 billion red loans, according to moderate estimates. Loans of 5 billion from TEIX II and the Guarantee Fund only went to eighteen and a half thousand businesses, while companies with an annual turnover of EUR 100,000 received 2.4% of this money. Therefore, companies that were excluded from the liquidity tools will not receive a repayable advance in 2021. The only instrument that went to the economy, since the government in the preliminary draft budget has budgeted zero for businesses in the advance. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, 62% of the free professionals and micro-enterprises have non-performing loans, the drop in turnover in the market reaches 50 billion euros, the recession seems, Minister, to reach 10% of the labour relations in full dismantling, one out of four private employees had a non-performing loan before the start of the coronary crisis. That is not what we are talking about, the last report by the Bank of Greece says. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we're filing evidence, you tell us we're in danger. After you said the day before yesterday, Minister, that you are setting up a permanent first home protection programme. I replicate exactly as you have said in committee. So what did New Democracy do all these months for the first residence? He initially insisted on the SYRIZA platform that failed with three and a half thousand regulations all, celebrating for too many months for the thousands of applications made. Keep this because we may be reliving it soon, Minister. You are now celebrating the "GEVYRA" programme, which supports borrowers, since so many will join and suddenly regulate their loans, so that they will not have to be protected and that will save their home. We therefore listen persistently to thousands of applications made, but two and a half months after the start of the programme, we do not know how many arrangements have been made and what category of debtors they are referring to. Thousands of applications are therefore ignored. I'm filing you with the Special Secretariat platform last night. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do we know about the GEOGRAPHY programme? What serves - and well serves - informed borrowers. What else do we know? That it does not serve the borrowers at risk of their home being auctioned, since in order to save the auction, banks are asking for up to 5% of the entire loan to go ahead with regulation, which will be subsidised. Are these the strict conditions, Mr Minister, which you said the other day that you have put to the banks the "GEOFERRA" programme? Is it accidental that the relevant envelope from 518 million two months before it arrived at 388 to one month longer deadline for submission to apply? So you, too, don't think so many borrowers will be covered. This obviously, ladies and gentlemen, has been seen by the banks for this reason and have announced a suspension of auctions for weak borrowers by the end of 2020, since no first-resident auction has been suspended until today because of the Government's 'GBERA' programme. The Government says that there is no need for a first-resident protection framework since borrowers bilaterally regulate their loans with banks and funds and the culture of payments has been strengthened. That's what the government says. In fact, the Minister spoke of two hundred and seventy thousand regulations over the last year. It has, however, forgotten that the non-performing loans settled two in the three short-term arrangements are resetting within three quarters. Is that what we call it? No, of course not. The last exhibition of the Bank of Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, what are the characteristics - to pass on to the bill - to which we disagree? It's a good warning. Correct measure, but incomplete. It does not introduce effective early warning tools, it does not support chambers with resources to respond to the role. And it does not - and most importantly - take into account that small businesses in Greece today cannot afford restructuring costs. We support these provisions, despite the fact that they are incomplete, and we have proposed the creation of a transformation agency through the chambers or even within the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debts in Early Warning Europe standards. I think he has an important know-how. Out of court. Unfortunately, you maintain the same philosophy as the SYRIZA's out-of-court, all of which - you said it - two thousand two thousand two-and-a-half years since the banks were neither cooperative nor viable. Do you have any objections, Minister? Ask the market to tell you their experience. You allow banks not even to make a proposal to regulate borrowers, not to accept mediation, although, since no poor debtor dares to argue that the proposal made to them is unsustainable and all this must have been done within two months. Who evaluates the proposal made by the bank as to whether it can be served by someone who has a 70% reduction in cigarettes in the shop, has been suspended, has he lost his job in recent years? The algorithm platform? Will they assess the objective data? Of course, if someone in the course of time, because economic developments are uncertain, it cannot serve all the extrajudicial doses, it will have to return all the money of the original debt. This is the extrajudicial you're bringing in and he's bankrupt. Common treatment of natural and legal persons when nine in 11 countries that have introduced a similar framework have established a different bankruptcy procedure for natural and legal persons. Incorporate in bankruptcy the income generated after bankruptcy without - and we expect you to see it by law - you need to clarify whether wages and pensions are included in the impoverished limit, set up implied bankruptcy on the initiative of a single creditor who can ask for the bankruptcy of the unemployed, pensioners, wagers, everything. The employee of bankruptcy is appointed by the bank which seeks bankruptcy and is not selected from a list, as has been done so far. 'Yiannis candles, Yiannis drinks'. No provision for contributors and guarantors who owe the whole even if the bankruptcy is completed. Even old bankruptcies at the final stage are also being given the opportunity to join the new framework. And all this in digital ostrich, of course, without the debtor ever having any right to prove that it is not bankrupt, but is insolvent because of objective circumstances. You're talking about a second chance after three years. At the same time, however, you do not expect to remove from TIERISIA so that this man can go to borrow after three years and indeed have a second professional opportunity. You are talking about a second chance with a rapid discharge, which sounds very nice, but unfortunately it will prove to be a faint dream, since the government sends 80% of the small-scale bankruptcys without supporting them with judges and staff. At the same time, it aims to get 50 thousand pending cases of the Katseli law in 2021, apparently betting that the vast majority would be rejected. Hence your intention to submit a bill late last night. Does, Minister, risk the Change Movement by saying all this? The answer was given by the spokesman of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors himself, saying that the goals you set are maximalists, while he called for the launch of the new bankruptcy in September 2021, since, as he said, the current design of the new bankruptcy procedure will fail. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing abolishes the concept and act of the protection of first residence, even abolishes the decisions of the Katseli Act by destroying every concept of legal certainty, and turns the owners into tenants of their homes. And in this case, however, the protection perimeter is very limited with the subordination criteria being more stringent even than those of the SYRIZA platform that you said failed. The vast majority of the middle class, for which New Democracy is supposed to be cut, remains unless the limit for a couple is 900 euros a month. And I ask, because we are seeing an outbreak of the pandemic: Two private employees are suspended from work with an income of EUR 1068 a month, they are automatically left out of the protection you are putting on the rental for 12 years. Is that social welfare, Minister? For most small and medium-sized enterprises the course is specified, liquidation of the entire property. Even those few who will rent their homes for twelve years will have to buy again from the agency, to which we now hear that banks are now interested in getting in, paying for the entire commercial value of the property without removing the 12-year-old rent. Really, what will happen until these private bodies start operating? Are you going to answer us? Is this, ladies and gentlemen, first home protection in a country where the economy is in crisis and the economic future is completely uncertain because of the extent of the pandemic? No, of course you do. So what is the defensive line for the government to convince its MPs of the new bankrupt? It serves a systematic confiscation of PASOK's Law 3869/2010 with a government of Giorgos Papandreou, the law known as Katselis, a law that even a representative of the funds admitted that he had neither intentions nor targeting. The Government argues that the Katseli Act favoured only the strategic malpractices, at the same time as the Minister himself determines them at 25% of what they applied for. Really, Minister, the remaining 75% what is it? Invisible? Don't you see it? Have they not benefited from the provisions of this law? Isn't 75% enough for you? However, we were not told by the officials of the New Democracy that while with PASOK's Law 3869 the first residence was protected only by a court decision, V.4161/2013 came with the signature of Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis to close the eye on the strategic malpractices, since now with a simple application in the first court anyone who could win first residence protection without checking whether he meets the real conditions. Don't you remember, gentlemen of the government, that with your signatures the courier door was opened in the batters? So I submit the relevant bill in the Minutes to help you remember it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above draft law, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today in this Chamber there are really three different perceptions. There are one of the New Democracy MPs who voted for the Katseli Act, who has been altered for the benefit of the batatisses, but now they are trying to dismantle him to atone for what they will vote for. There are SYRIZA MPs who did not vote for Katselis law, changed him and abolished him definitively in 2019 and they simply defend him verbal and rhetoric because Mrs Katselis made some choices along the way. But there are also the PASOK MPs who voted for the Katseli law and supported it in the previous years and they are honoring it today with their signature in the amendment tabled by the Change Movement for the effective protection of the first residence and the rural property, because for us the farmer's property is of particular importance, because only PASOK has truly protected the main residence. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the fourth time we have been tabling an amendment to reintroduce this law. The first time we did it a year ago when you celebrated for the platform. We also have an amendment that ensures workers' requirements in the event of bankruptcy and puts them first, because citizens need to know who they are who are supporting workers today and really protected the weak borrowers in 2010 against the troika and banks when they asked for their property to be liquidated. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And since we referred to 2010, and Mr Staikoras the other day remembered the rhetoric of the Zapporahs of Mr Samaras and the New Democracy, saying that "you PASOK put us on the memorials", I would like to remind him that the country on the rocks dropped it the destructive five-year-old New Democracy and Mr Karamanlis, the five-year-old fiscal derailment, the five-year-old debt and deficits, the five-year-old statistical smuggling, as described in the report by the European Parliament, which I attach to and the five-year-year-old counterfeiting of data. We do not say so, says Jean-Claude Juncker, friend of Greece and former President of the European Commission. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These led the country to the memorials, Minister, which both New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis did not vote in 2010, because then you see it was popular to be an antimony. Is that the New Democracy's responsible voice and now? And since you want to be called "responsible voice" answer us: Will you bring legislation to suspend first home auctions, yes or no? Are we populists, Mr Stakoura, asking you, as you called us in committee? Then why did you, in practice, have, as a first article, extended the status of residence protection and notified it first - first - at the press conference? Then it was serious and now it's populism? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the Minutes the act of legislation referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why have you tabled an amendment on 29 May in which you are suspending first home auctions until 31 July 2020? Then it was serious and now it's populism? How long will the government glorify behind the banks for suspending first home auctions of weak borrowers? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen - I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance - I shall make a little reference to Amendment 530. It is a positive arrangement for firefighting borrowers and Elias and other regions, even with a long delay. They can meet obligations at a very difficult time, but it is incomprehensible to exclude pensioners and civil servants from the abolition of a solidarity contribution. You treat them like they're privileged. Despite our disagreement, because this amendment has overall positive provisions, we are moving towards the vote, because it also has measures to relieve people affected by the pandemic. Amendment 528 for the Special Service for the Recovery Fund, one million euros for consultants. Indeed, the Pissaridis report is not enough, do you have to do two further studies? However, will the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Skylakakis, as the Prime Minister, said on 4 August, or Minister Stagioras, as the amendment says today? Please make it clear that we know who we are addressing and who we will control. Ladies and gentlemen, at this critical juncture, the government is consciously choosing to strengthen the strong, adopting the doctrine of the Pissaridis report leading to the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises. At a time when measures are needed to rekindle the economy and create a real protection net for the weak, these measures are also absent from the bill that we are discussing and from the whole of your policy. The protection of first residence, the provision of a second chance to small and medium-sized enterprises are key options for the development of the country, for social cohesion, for the present and future of this place. These citizens we defended as PASOK, for these citizens we will now fight as a movement of change. Unfortunately, New Democracy behind every loan, because it is obviously stuck with the banking syndrome, sees only numbers and does not see a family, a professional who is in difficulty, a man who has failed. The new bankruptcy of the government really opens Haul's bourgeoisie, it's not economically effective, it's not socially sensitive. In this bankruptcy, real hell for small and medium-sized enterprises, no one can stand neutrally. And because, in paraphrasing Dante's saying, "The hottest positions in hell are guarded for those who have a neutral attitude" we will vote against and we will maintain a neutral attitude after his vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u36	My colleague, Maria Konnakas, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much one tries to see what the second chance this bill gives people's households, employees, unemployed, self-employed, small professionals and farmers who are increasingly immersing their debts. Without difficulty, however, he can see the first opportunity that is formed for banks, for the predators of the funds to gather quickly not only the main residence, but overall the property and incomes of the working local households. Changes to the Banking Code are the majority of a more comprehensive framework of deep anti-linguistic regulations where, together with the "GEYRA" programme, which looks rather like the bridge of Arta for those who are expecting to save through it, but also the upcoming changes in the Katsel law that we were just informed that the government submitted last night put a definitive tomb on whatever remains, the last figs of the judiciary protection of the first home, which, of course, is completely abolished for those who have incomes above EUR 7,000, the privileged ones are likely to be considered, while for their lower incomes they are given the solution to pay rent at their home and then come to buy it at their original commercial value. But the bill also takes one step further. We are not just talking about lifting the protection of main residence, but about an unprecedented and very dangerous section even of civil law itself. For the first time, the bankruptcy of a person has been established and on objective criteria and on the initiative of the creditors themselves. In other words, it can go bankrupt, a farmer, a freelance professional when he does not pay 40% of his dues for six months and his total debt exceeds 30,000 euros. In fact, in the same vortex, the guarantors of the loans will also be found, since even after the bankruptcy of the first debt is not exempted from the debts, and they can also be confronted with commitments of income and similar bankruptcy procedures. You really know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, no matter how much you're inclined to have your staff conduct relentless analyses for the batters and strategic malicious payers, their overcompensation has shaped for the people's households the anti-popular policies of all your governments, at least in the last decade of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - Change movement and the necessary additional disposable parties, so as not to blame any one of you, because there has been enough courgetage here about who tightened the loop in the workers and the populace. It is even more challenging when this debate is opened at a time when debt overcompensation and deadlock are multiplying rapidly, even if, with the various suspensions, the government is relocating for a short time after the repayment has not yet been erased by a single euro from the heavy bill. Even these regulations of the amendments, which substantially alter the same heavy conditions of the arrangements for the next period, are characteristic, and in an unacceptable way, you have not been able to exempt from this contribution the civil servants and pensioners and of course you have been doing so for just a year. All of these, therefore, do not simply leave them without the slightest protection in their homes, but also enable them to commit their already smashed incomes after bankruptcy, of course, beyond the crumbs defined as reasonable living costs, condemning workers and populace layers to literally crawl at the bottom of the demersalisation of EUR 500 to 600. Of course, the integration of all natural persons into bankruptcy procedures, that is to say, their treatment by procedures established under the rules of business operation, also leads to other dangerous legal acrobatics. Every worker, retired, unemployed and also his relatives can be confronted with criminal provisions, such as data suppression or counterfeiting or a number of provisions on risky behaviour, which we really wonder how it is possible to assess. Can they still be registered in bankrupt registers of natural persons and pass through a sieve of all their personal data? But what really impresses, what was not found in an institution to condemn it, is this mockery of supposedly protecting vulnerable debtors. Listen to what protection this is about. After transferring ownership of their home to the property acquisition and releasing agency - a private body, which may include banks of up to all kinds of businesses, caradoging to do business with the homes of the world in the context of the plans for the renovation of large cities - it will be possible for debtors to become lawmakers in their homes, with the permanent threat of eviction and auctioning in the event of three rents being delayed. Even any small rental subsidy, i.e. the sums of about 70 euros, that you are advertising, will be granted to those who meet the income criteria, which have also been added to the significant reduction in family income in the past six months, flying even more out of these regulations, is an additional safeguard for the banks that they will receive from the public. These are amounts that will not be sought back, even in the case of auctioning the house. In other words, for the banks. This, of course, is not the case for everyone, but for those who, after becoming leafy and feathery, prove to be touching the bottom of poverty. It is characteristic that the conditions for subjecting this arrangement are still stricter than the universally-successful SYRIZA platform, in which it managed to join once three and a half thousand debtors. In these most vulnerable debtors you say that "you can once again buy your home from the beginning at the commercial value that the private entity will define itself, without deducting from these amounts, neither the leases of all these years nor everything that he has managed to repay from his loan before bankruptcy." The banks, in other words, will receive the rent allowance from the state, take the rents, get what they have, which will be deprived of their incomes to pay for their loans and, of course, then they will be able to sell the houses again at the same commercial value. You use, in fact, as an alibi to all these regulations that in the previous legislative frameworks too, the debtor had to pay almost his value to save his home. This is true and confirms, if you wish, the criticism made by the JRC and all the versions of the so-called Katseli Act, that, in this way, the state is actually intervening in order to ensure the interests of banking groups, in order to ensure that the requirements that would be very uncertain, if not impossible, are collected under crisis and massive cutbacks in incomes. And it is not intended, on the contrary, to make it easier to give, as has been said over time, a second chance for the highly indebted people's households. In the opposite direction, in this real relief of the people's strata from accumulated and unmanageable debts to banks, taxes, insurance funds, which are the result of the attack that has been taken over all these years by all governments, it is the proposal for a law which has been submitted to the JRC and to it as well as to the previous government. But she refuses even to discuss it in the name of the reverences of the economy. The main logic of the JRC's proposal is the drastic reduction in the debts of the people's households to banks, with the reduction of interest and 'cut' in half of the capital, on the basis of the income criteria that it provides for, for housing loans up to EUR 200, but also for part of the debts to the public and the funds, a reduction in the professional loans of the small UAE, but also of the poor farmers to 30%, if they maintain their business and at 50% for those who have been closed and who have been unemployed for up to EUR 300,000. It also includes a number of other measures, which remove some of the burdens, so that they can actually meet their debts and not be dragged into a permanent hostage. Such a hostage is condemned by the government and by the thousands of self-employed who cannot obtain from the excessive burden the temporary suspension measures taken by the government and which simply shift the deadlock for the next period without giving them any substantial relief. At best, he's sharing new loans. This was what was advertised as a "golden" opportunity and the loans of the TEMPUS, which, over the past twenty years, in very clear conditions, have not been able to repay the professionals. And you are now going to bring them into line with the amendment, since, of course, they have, firstly, been blackmailed in the tax office. On the other hand, of course, the government, even in very difficult conditions today, ignores the legitimate demands of self-employed people for duty-free entry, for the definitive abolition of the trade fee and for the deletion of some of the debts charged to the previous tax crisis, the funds and the banks. You do not forget, however, at any time to strengthen private clinics, private clinical authorities, since you also have an article in this amendment which exempts you from the obligation to return 5% of hospitals to the public sector and, indeed, retroactively, returning them and whatever they have done this year. But for the self-employed, do you be baptized with courage as a second chance? That after bankruptcy the professional will retain the license to pursue a profession to start again. Since he will have lost all his property, including his first residence, his professional housing, his professional tools, his fields, as he will be relieved of his annual income, in order to repay his debts, so lightly of such unnecessary burdens will have a second chance of dealing with the same anti-population policy that reached him in bankruptcy. In fact, we wonder how you considered such a serious'save tree'. You also place all your propaganda staff, with the infinite contribution, of course, and the well-known trade union leaders, to present as additional safeguards, a factor that will prevent - you say - the absent scenario of bankruptcy, the introduction of an electronic early warning mechanism for debtors and various advisory structures. As if the problem of self-employed workers is ignorance or lack of information on where their business is going and not their reduced incomes, especially in the circumstances of the crisis, not the domination of monopolies on the market and the anti-grass policies implemented by governments and the European Union and leading them to bankruptcy. Corresponding mockery is to present as salvation the out-of-court settlement mechanism when the banks get a head office in it, even from the public and insurance funds. They do not commit to participate in it, and they are the same which determines the data in the computing tool, on the basis of which the settlement arrangements will be made, on the basis of the main criterion that the bank should not come into a worse position than the one that would come in the event of the debtor’s assets being liquidated. You understand what this means to debtors, when it is already known today that banks are dynamic every attempt to settle debts, setting conditions that are impossible to serve. It is such that your bias to the banks that you have reached the point of giving them the opportunity to define even the bankruptcy lawyer, and to eliminate the minimum guarantee of impartiality. In fact, even for outstanding bankruptcys, the bill enables lenders to choose which process will be followed if the previous bankruptcy code or current arrangements apply. At the same time, on the contrary, as far as large companies are concerned, the declaration of bankruptcy opens the door wide to mass redundancies of workers, as provision is made for a fair solution to the contracts of employment and, indeed, without compensation, for the firm in difficulty to be attributed to the new owners. This is the time when you maintain the misery passed by SYRIZA by the law that prioritised the banks to be met before the demands of the employees of the company. The JRC is tabling an amendment again today. We also submitted it to another bill from the Ministry of Justice, and then the Minister said that you intend to regulate these issues with the overall review of the Banking Code. Since, however, your study to make it easier for the banks has probably escaped you from such secondary arrangements, we give you the opportunity to correct this unacceptable situation at the expense of workers who have for years been waiting for the payment of accrued and indemnities and if they have left any crumbs after the banks have been satisfied, they are satisfied with the public and the funds. The amendment calls for the full, overpriced fulfilment of the labour requirements as a whole before all the requirements and not at percentage rates, while the satisfaction of the banks is asked to be achieved after the public and insurance funds have been met. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a little tolerance. It is true that in this bill, the seal of SYRIZA is intense. And this is not only about the lead given by the banks to the demands of the workers, which was not saved, of course, by the amendments made in 2018, making it thanks to the workers to be able, first and foremost, to collect only the accrued six months. He put his seal on and dismantle the protection of first home, in order to relieve the banks of red loans for which they are now, in fact, giving a recital of interpretation that would envy and the Hollywood stars, as Mr Tsakalots reminded us the day before yesterday, while he also shielded the outburst of the people with electronic auctions and the conversion into a private offence against them. Ladies and gentlemen, this crime, therefore, at the expense of the people, does not only have the seal of the New Democracy, which is now coming to play its role as a genuine urban party, has the stamp of all the previous governments and the guarantor of the European Union, who are serving with few differentiation, but with the same zeal, the 'early cows' of competitiveness and the development of capital. The JRC will vote against this anti-grass excretion and calls on the workers, the people's strata to respond to the real dilemma if they accept to live in permanent bankruptcy to multiply their profits by banks and business groups or if they strengthen their struggle to take real breaths, to pass their own needs in counterattack. For all these reasons, the JRC will submit a request for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill so that everyone can be clearly placed against this abortion that the government is bringing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, as a JRC, we want to ask the Bureau where the government will arrive with the amendments. Four amendments have already been tabled until yesterday - the three were very large - and yet another one has been tabled. Does the government intend to bomb us with amendments when we are discussing a very serious bill such as the new Banking Code and its procedures? In our view, this procedure must be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u41	I am aware of this point by the Conference of Presidents. But the Bureau does not represent the government, it does not represent all Members within Parliament. So I'm not the one who's gonna answer you for the government. I understand what you said and you understood what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u43	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u44	Not a minute, Mr President. Mr President, there is no intention of tabling another ministerial amendment and I would like to tell you that once the rapporteurs have finished and we are discussing unconstitutionalism, I will not make my position on the core of the bill, but on the amendments initially, so that you have a full picture of what we have tabled in the past few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u45	All right, that kind of makes things easier, Minister, but it does not cure the time-consuming disease. And it's not just this disease now. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. He's right, though. A number of amendments are constantly being tabled. We have made many references to the Conference, where we are always told that it is the last time, but they always continue. Ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned in the first committee, this is a poor draft law. No significant branch of bankruptcy law, while - the worst! - the end of the first residence protection is officially under way. As far as positive regulations are concerned, these are infinite. We stressed that the worst time that a state can adopt a new bankruptcy law, even if it would be ideal, is when the country is bankrupt, with even worse prospects for its future, when the debts of its private sector are already great, while the realities are even higher than the lethal deflation of the order of more than 2.3% in September, to which Greece has sunk. A responsible government would only deal with this problem, with nothing else. To understand what deflation means, we will repeat that the real interest rate, what is interesting, is the nominal plus deflation or other than inflation. When Greece borrows at 1.18% nominal interest rate in ten-year bonds, as recently, the reality is 1.18% plus 2.3%, thus 3.48%. For comparison, Turkey's ten-year bond was negotiating yesterday at 12.97% nominal rate - as we will deposit in the Minutes - while its inflation was 11.75%, so its actual interest rate is 1.19%. Therefore, 3,48% is paid by Greece - a member of the Eurozone and 1,19% by Turkey. So can we be proud, as the Minister said, let alone when six trillion Eurozone bonds have negative interest rates? As far as the Greek companies, which are borrowed on an average of 4.5% - much higher - are, therefore, at a real interest rate of 6.8%, it is obviously impossible to compete with foreign companies, which means that they will go bankrupt under the new bankruptcy law, which will be passed today by the government, while it has just announced that it will be completed with the speeding up of the courts for the Katseli Act. Is it really random? It was, however, interesting to confirm the Minister in committee with regard to the disastrousness of the memorials, which, of course, continue through his accusations in the Change Movement, that this brought them to Greece, apparently angering Mr Loverdos, as we have seen before. There is reasonable, of course, since the memoranda led our country to its current fall with its public debt to 200%, with its productive web and its red private debt to 233,6 billion euros or 138% of GDP in 2020 only to the public sector, without charges - if we added the burdens would still be 80 billion - in banks and collectors, as well as in the insurance funds, while, of course, there are agencies - PPC etc. - and a lot of other things where the Greeks owe them. We would like to repeat to him, however, that his party, New Democracy, with the PASOK of Mr Venizelos, as the Minister said before, has caused an even greater catastrophe, which will be borne by all the next generations, through the signature of the PSI, through which Greece has been turned into an impoverished colony of creditors, who now govern it with their successive underhands. Even worse, while in those countries that have been imposed in the past, public debt has been reduced and private debt has increased, in its place, from the higher taxes, from the reduction of expenditure, from the reduction of the social state, etc., in Greece, they have literally escalated, both on levels of world history alone. And with regard to respect for the state constantly invoked by the New Democracy, which each time refers to the previous government of SYRIZA to justify its disappointing bills and sad decisions, as was certainly the tradition of nation and half state in Skopje, it is not true, since Greece is governed by its lenders who have not changed at all. That's why the state keeps going, no one else. Continuing, the bill mainly benefits banks, the abusive behaviour of which is known to the majority of citizens, while their protests are misleading, for the eyes of the world. No obligation arises anywhere for the creditor, claiming the bankruptcy of the debtor, to prove the legal, factual and correct of the amount of his claim, and it is known that the banks are effectively undermining any extrajudicial procedure. In addition, this draft law considers any debtor to be a badge and a malicious payer, and it is right to claim any claim that any lender presents. As a general remark now, we see no regulation of a genuine second opportunity for debtors, as it would be their removal from TIERISIA. On the other hand, there is a need to strengthen the exclusions with the new insolvency register that is being promoted. The worst point, however, is the second part of the third book, which is truly outrageous for both citizens and any favoured state, not only because it effectively abolishes the protection of the principal residence of debtors, but also because their assets will be managed by a legal person in the private sector, from which they will rent it and be able to buy it again. If there is a miracle, and they have the money to buy back, they will have to pay the rest of the rent due under the ten-year lease contract. Article 17 of the Constitution on property protection and Article 25 on the social rule of law and the protection of fundamental human rights are obviously of no interest to the Government unless it considers that the principal residence is not part of it. In any case, despite the fact that it is advertised by the government and the media as a second chance, this is unfortunately not what this is all about. In other words, it is deliberately misleading to describe it. In this respect, the term ‘second chance’ can only be used for the banks, which will benefit from the bill’s grant programme and not just by continuing to burden taxpayers, as over the last few years. We have been costed by the banks. Continuingly, the difference in the new bill is that it introduces the concept of bankruptcy for natural persons, and until now only companies and traders were bankrupt. They are given the opportunity to grant all their assets so that they are relieved of their debts, while others allow more than one income cutter, as mentioned in Articles 178 and 92, to have certain protection when they make specific payments. As far as businesses are concerned, some changes to the existing procedure are adopted, such as the fact that 50% of each category of creditor is now required from 60% previously. Really, New Democracy with debts of EUR 321 million in 2019, according to our balance sheet, increased by EUR 30 million since 2018 and with great damage, will be subject to the new law to protect itself from its creditors, or why is it not the case for the common mortals, because they are able to overrule their debts with creditors? In the face of what guarantees, really, is this bank loan granted to the New Democracy? In addition, the main points of the draft law are as follows: Firstly, in the first book and in Articles 1 to 74, the first part refers to the prevention of insolvency, the creation of a warning mechanism which is to some extent similar to credit performance, namely credit scores in the United States, but with increased publicity, with open and accessible sensitive personal data, legal aid, means and judicial decisions. Obviously, it is being launched to force the debtors through their stigmatisation. So of course we cannot agree with that, let alone when there is an exchange of information with other bodies, as shown by Article 214. At least in the United States, the approval of the natural person is required for the provision of the credit performance data, the credit score, such as when it comes to his recruitment, while it has been banned from being asked to recruits since 2016, so that there is no prejudice over the financially weak and bankrupt who after the crisis of 2008 increased and were pushed to the margin, as well as so many of us Greeks. The second part refers to the prevention of tolerance through out-of-court settlement procedures with the approval of the public and the funds, the preliminary resolution procedure and the register of experts. Reconciliation includes a instalment subsidy, for which the General Accounting Office budgets EUR 100 million annually for the period 2021 to 2025, that is, a total of EUR 500 million, and we assume that forty thousand to fifty-five thousand households will be included, compared with about two hundred thousand of the Katseli Act. Secondly, in the second book and in Articles 75 to 211, the first to the fifth part refers to the declaration of bankruptcy, the conditions, the proceedings procedure, the consequences for debtors and the sale of property. It is important here that the first residence is not protected, except for some vulnerable groups with income under the subsidy. In fact, this is a regime comparable to what currently applies to red loans, where the number of protected loans is continuously falling despite the fact that Greece is walking from evil to worse. Part Six covers bankruptcies of a small object. In the seventh the end of bankruptcy, while the eighth exemptions and debts of fraud, as well as negligence for false evidence. The other parts of it are procedural provisions. The third book and Articles 221 to 226 include the monitoring and collection of insolvency data, as well as the vulnerable debtors, where the possibility of transferring property rights and the payment of a lease to a acquirer and resale, with the possibility of buying in the twelve-year period under vague conditions and amounts. In the fourth book and in Articles 227 to 262, arrangements are made for insolvency administrators in respect of their certification, disciplinary law and liability. In the fifth and last book in Articles 263 to 270 - a lot of the articles - there are the transitional and non-related provisions of the Ministry. Our main remarks were as follows: Firstly, the main purpose of the bill is to satisfy the banks, even at the expense of the public or insurance funds. Secondly, it does not refer at all to the causes that have created the need for a new bankruptcy law, such as uncontrolled over-regulated bank loans, just to collect commissions from their executives. You are only punishing the victims of bankruptcy, of the state, of the citizens and not the perpetrators, such as their governments to date. Thirdly, it does not eliminate the bureaucratic obstacles, which were the crucial point of failure of the previous efforts, and it does not refer to the necessary creation of mechanisms for raising data with the involvement of the debtor. Fourthly, there are no safety clauses for contenders. Fifthly, there are no security barriers for so-called strategic malpractices, although few, used to justify any unjust measures being taken. Sixthly, there is no care for the businesses they will be subject to, so that they can gain access to the banking system again. Seventhly, there is nothing for closed businesses inactivity, although the bill that would put an end to the companies - zombies that are constantly increasing, unfortunately, in Greece. Eighth, there is no provision for restoring the setting of an hundred and twenty doses to everyone, as it should be. The reasoning for the culture of payments is funny, since in 2012-2013 the debts to the public were less than EUR 40 billion, while since 2013 they have been escalated to EUR 105 billion. Obviously, this is a real weakness of payment, while the possibility given to banks by the recapitalisations has never been given to citizens and businesses. Ninth and last, it is scandalously favouring the overflows without collateral, because the banks, which have the first and last word according to the bill, will only consent to them, while rejecting the borrowers with sufficient property, since they will only be able to obtain money from them. We would like to refer to a number of articles, although we have analysed all the important points in the Committees, but there is no time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Villardo, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u48	I shall conclude, Mr President. In any case, we will of course vote against the bill, while we have tabled a detailed objection of unconstitutionality for many of its articles, considering our own obligation to the Greeks. Really, does SYRIZA and the Change Movement consider it constitutional? We're very curious after their full references. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u49	We'll hang up with Mr. Kritona Arseni. I would like to suggest to you - because we have had a rough sum of money to finish around 2.00 p.m. after midnight - that your time should be reduced as follows: the ministers will be 15 minutes, the parliamentary representatives ten minutes and the speakers five minutes, because you are ninety-six, so that you can all speak. That's the suggestion. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members and MPs, Minister, this is a globally unprecedented, unprecedented piece of legislation that you are legislating on today. The aim of the government is for all citizens to lose their homes, with the exception of anyone who has an income below EUR 7,000, where these categories of our citizens will remain in their homes without them anymore being owned and for as long as they can pay the rent. It is a bill - deal with specific interests for companies that will liquidate all households, as the bill is about whoever has a loan or gets a loan of more than EUR 30 000, whoever guarantees such a loan, whoever inherits a borrower, i.e. all of us. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Six steps on how the government plans to lose all our homes: After receiving the early warning about the risk of bankruptcy and running to make the request for an electronic platform for out-of-court settlement, to settle our debts, to prevent evil, the banks are informed of all our information and other creditors, while allowing creditors to consult each other and while they agree they have no obligation to answer our request for settlement or to make their own proposal. So they stay with our own evidence, stay with the ability to communicate with each other and submit each and every single application for bankruptcy through the online platform. The process of bankruptcy and confiscation of our assets begins without actually being able to do anything, not even bankruptcy, since they are above one of the creditors. So our property is liquidated for the satisfaction of the lenders and is determined by the banks, the lawyer, the manager, who will define the procedures for the auctioning of the properties. It is a model that exists nowhere else in the world except in Hungary, Mr Orban. I have asked the Minister on several occasions to explain to us what the country is a model of this bill. He never had an answer. Only in Hungary, Mr Orban, there is this phenomenon. Now, of course, if you are a vulnerable borrower, that is, you have an income of less than 7,000 euros, you can rent your house and after you have spent twelve years buying it back at commercial value, from zero, even if you have paid 95% of your loan. That's all gone. Also, the twelve years rents you give are lost. You're gonna buy your house from scratch. That if you belong only to this category, or you won't even buy it. It is not enough that this bill leads to de facto bankruptcies in households, but you integrate the concept of bankruptcy into all of us, as if we were companies. You have the courage to claim that you are protecting your first residence. You dare be honest. Dare and say publicly that your goal is to liquidate. The two pillars of this bill are that, on the one hand, the citizens lose their homes, they go bankrupt without being informed, only when developments are under way and when they are no longer capable of reacting, and on the other hand, the banks designate the managers of bankrupt households and corporations and, on the other hand, they are not only designated by them, while, until now, they have been designated by the court on their own, but they are not only the certified professionals, they can be legal corporations, consultancy companies, legal subsidiaries of banks. It is impressive that if a property is auctioned and for three consecutive auction efforts, it is not an interested party, the auction is deemed to be fruitless, this property is published, it passes to the State without any compensation from the owner, without any impairment of the debt, which is manifestly unconstitutional, because the Constitution stipulates that no one can be deprived of its ownership except for reasons of public interest and when the timely compensation for its loss has been preceded. You are making this penalising - because it makes no sense - to threaten the owner to push him to make the settlement process, to give the borrowers the information, to initiate the confiscation procedure. You do this to panic him, and since you panic him, you do not give him any compensation, no impairment of his debt. The big question, of course, is about SYRIZA and the rest of the opposition: SYRIZA colleagues, you are fighting with New Democracy for this bill and rightly so. Will you tell us, though, if you ever become a government again, will you abolish this law, or will he be unwillingly tolerated, as you have done for so many others? I am very surprised that this question has not been answered by the committee. If you're just planning to tolerate it reluctantly, then I can't see your difference. Second chance bill, the government says. For whom, it's the question. Who do you give a chance to? This is a bill of opportunity for society by companies. It's like we're being raided by pirates in the country. Even the fact that you allow some citizens with an income of less than 7,000 euros to stay in their homes who will lose them as property, but they will stay and pay a rent to throw crumbs of reassurance. Serve companies and make communication management for citizens and society. That's your X-ray. But it was never as clear as in this bill. I call on this citizens to be vigilant, to be informed because, unfortunately, this bill is worse than the memoranda. Even the information today has become individual responsibility. Irrespective of communication planning, this bill will ultimately be the one to throw the government away. You do not care, however, because the services will have been done while the next governments are likely to tolerate them reluctantly and continue with them. I call on the government to withdraw this bill now. I call on the opposition to commit itself to abolishing it if it becomes government. And we are committed, as Mera25, to abolishing it whenever this opportunity is given. We, as Mera25, have already brought the legislative proposal for the establishment of a public debt management body where all red loans are transferred, the freezing of every auction, the possibility that without losing their ownership citizens continue to use their real estate, for which interest and repayment funds will have been frozen and to pay a, yes, rented on social grounds against the loan, which they have rather than against the gap. And when the real estate market is restored to its level when the loan was agreed and signed, that is, when the economy has been restored, then they can either repay the loan or sell the house to repay the loan and get the rest of the house's money that is legally held without any commitments, without blackmail, with democratic control. We invite you to move in this direction. We invite you to withdraw this bill now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been objections of constitutionality and the House is asked to give its opinion. We shall apply Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The objection of unconstitutionalism for these articles, which have been proposed, is from the Greek Solution and the Mera25. The Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or the Parliamentary Representatives and the Ministers responsible shall each have the right to speak for five minutes. As far as the Greek solution is concerned, the rival has declared that it will be Mr. Hetas and then from Mera25 it will be Mrs. Adamopoulou. Mr. Heta, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We have tabled a request for unconstitutionalism for a long time, which is why I will be brief, respecting the difficult course that we have today. Before you, the previous president said that it reminds of seasons 2015. I will say that today the House - although we were not in the media - reminds us of times of memorandum both on the width of the debates and on the shameful content of the debate. Because this bill today reminds me of those unfamiliar times. The government, Mr President, will vote for a bill which is clearly drafted by the banks. And which, instead of giving - because this is the meaning - a second chance, that is what we call on our households, which is what you are doing to our households. You give a second chance to the banks, you give a second chance to the funds to get their money and get the homes of the world. You are in a hurry, Minister, to get the houses of the Greeks. Because today the truth has to be heard. And the truth is that the government is in a hurry to put its hands on the houses of the Greeks. You are effectively abolishing today, and this must be heard at the end of the day, the protection of first residence, and that, Mr President, is against the Constitution. The abolition of the first residence is against the Constitution. And when does the government choose to do this? This is really the freaky thing to do. When? While the Turks are ante portas you choose to dismantle the cohesion of the Greek society, taking the homes of the world. While Greeks and Greeks suffer with the story of the coronary, unemployment, closed businesses, bankruptcy, you go and get them home. Are you advertising and that requires a lot of courage from your side that the bill will relieve, you say, the little debtor while, in fact, what he does? It relieves strategic malpractice payers. I am not going to go into all the articles we invoke, I will stay in two or three specific articles. After all, as I said, Mr President, I do not remember being in this Chamber before discussing an application for unconstitutionality after two hours. So in these two hours, these colleagues had the opportunity not only to read our request but to memorize it. This has never been done, a state of anti-constitutionalism. Article 4(1), (2) and (5) violates the principle of equality clearly because it equates this bill to the employee, the retired person and the employer. That's what she does. While each category has a different legal and tax treatment. Another way to deal with is the trader, the employee, the pensioner, and he goes on to say. And I will go to Article 22, Mr President, paragraph 1, in verse A. What does the world say to understand? "Working", says the Constitution, "is a right, protected by the state, which ensures the creation of conditions of employment for all citizens and the moral and material elevation of the working population of the rural and urban society". The above provision, ladies and gentlemen, of the bill is contrary to the constitutional provision in force, since here the State, Mr President, does not only ensure the morality and material elevation of the worker, but at the same time the opposite is achieved, i.e. it impairs the legitimate rights of the worker in favour of creditors and banks in particular. You take his ox, too, in short. Another reference to Article 21(1) and (4) of the Constitution will be made, Mr President. What's he saying? Listen a little, ladies and gentlemen, and you really go at night, the dawn to vote 'yes' in this perpetual bill. What does the Constitution say? That "the family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation as well as marriage, maternity, childhood are under the protection of the state. The State shall ensure that all citizens are decent living by means of a minimum guaranteed income system, as laid down in the law.’ And paragraph 4 says: 'Acquisition of residence by those who are deprived of it or who are inadequately resident is the subject of special care by the State'. Not only does the state see to it that it finds a roof for those who do not have it, but it also takes the roof of those who have it! This is the outrageous one. Listen, Minister. We don't have any illusions. We're sure you'll find a way to counter all this. We did, because we have a moral obligation to Greek and Greek. Besides, you specialize in the New Democracy Government with ease to baptize the fish meat. Won't you find a way now to counter our arguments? It's more than sure. In fact, the Constitution from the time of the memoranda has become 'order' in this decade and now, in a year and a half, it has become 'order', Mr President. We've broken it dozens of times. "Acordion"! As every government that legislates does, it does. He's stretching it, he's getting over it, he's breaking it. That is why we have so many decisions from the Council of State. And I'm closing up with it. The permanent fixed position of the Greek Solution, which we also stressed in the Revision of the Constitution, where we found closed ears and turned backs - and we say it every time an unconstitutional request comes to the House - is that, if there was a constitutional court, we would not discuss all this today and, Minister, you would not be able to bring this abortion here today, the tombstone of the Greeks to the Greek Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u53	Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor since Merra25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. We object to anti-constitutionalism under Articles 164(4) and 263(2), which has retroactive effect. We believe that these provisions challenge the right to protect the property of Article 17 of the Constitution, the right to adequate housing under Article 21(4) of the Constitution and the right to equal treatment. In particular, Article 164(4) provides that in the event of no transfer of the matter within a hundred and twenty days of the issue of the provision of the rapporteur, the auction shall be repeated and, if he is barren, the ownership shall be placed in the public by a decision of the rapporteur at the request of the lawyer. We know that both the provision of Article 17(1) of the Constitution and Article 1 of the ECHR's Additional Protocol protect the property. No person may be deprived of his or her property except for reasons of public interest. That's what both articles say. This is a fundamental principle, which is common to all national constitutions and has, of course, been enshrined in the case-law of the Strasbourg Court. So no one can be deprived of just for public benefit, which has been duly proven, as the law stipulates. It follows that Article 164(4) provides, in essence, that the property of legal persons is established by the State on the grounds of the protection of the property of creditors, an argument which is not correct, as the deprivation of the asset by the State's confiscation in no way simulates and does not fully satisfy the claim of the creditor, nor any claim of the State. This is therefore an unjustified deprivation of an asset, which also violates the principle of proportionality in terms of the availability and appropriateness of the measure in relation to the objective pursued. This is a punishing provision which discriminates between natural and legal persons, which also violates the principle of equality. I move to the provision of Article 218 of the draft law on the granting of tasks and responsibilities to an acquisition and redemption body which is a legal person in the private sector. The State therefore grants these tasks to a private body, a legal entity governed by private law. However, this is in direct contrast with Article 21(4) of the Constitution with regard to the protection of adequate housing: "The acquisition of residence by those who deprive it or who are poorly resident is the subject of special care by the State". As a constitutional right, therefore, the State should be given special care. So whatever energy, whether state or private, is moving towards the loss of the main home as an adequate place of residence, directly offends the core of the constitutional right to protect the main home and, for its part, it is certainly also insulting the core of the very dignity of man, which is inherent in the protection of the home. It, of course, also puts forward the provision of Article 25(1) that the rights of humans are guaranteed by the State. With this provision, therefore, and with this practice chosen by the government, to grant tasks and responsibilities of its own to a private body, what it does is to severely offend the citizens' confidence in the state, leaving the citizens in the north of private interests and thereby harming the rule of law itself. And I am ending with the objection of unconstitutionality of Article 117(c). It provides that they are to be considered as harmful and therefore legal acts are to be revoked, late payment of debts otherwise than in cash, except for legal acts made to credit institutions or financial institutions, to financial institutions. We believe that this provision directly and unequivocally violates the principle of equality, as described in Article 4(2) of the Constitution. So, as is clear from this provision, all creditors should be treated on an equal footing with regard to bankruptcy and bankruptcy transactions. In their satisfaction, therefore, there should be no preferential treatment for some of them. So, because of the unconstitutionality of these provisions, we call on the government to withdraw the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. Mr Buga has the floor on the part of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u56	Indeed, the House can make a preventive check on the unconstitutionality of the draft laws discussed. However, this audit should be based on the interpretation of the constitutional provisions, which claim to be in breach of the provisions of the legislation, which the government proposes, and of course it is also necessary to know the scope of the provisions. I will begin - because our parliamentary representative will also speak - with the opposition of the legal constitutional issues raised by the Members who raised the objection of unconstitutionality. As far as the possibility of bankruptcy is concerned, I would like to say, in order for colleagues - and I think that it has also been known from the committee debate - that the possibility of a second chance to natural persons under Greek law has not arisen so far, but foreign law has existed since the last century in the United States since the end of the 19th century. So there's nothing new in the legal classes. It's common. It is therefore coming to be introduced into the Greek legal system. But in order to understand what you are doing, I would like to inform you of what is happening to this day. To date, merchants have been in bankruptcy. What does that mean? That merchants, by means of an organised procedure, which is to date controlled by their creditors and under the supervision of the bankruptcy court, may obtain the exemption from which, on the one hand, creditors are satisfied at the same time. After their restoration, traders are given a second chance. What is the government doing now? Instead of leaving natural persons herds in the individual persecution of their creditors, she comes to protect them from the possibility of this collective and organised procedure. What is the case to date for natural persons, ladies and gentlemen? Creditors, lenders of natural persons shall have the right to enforce and auction at the expense of their individual property. It can therefore, unreservedly and without any condition being met by the accelerated lender in order to satisfy his claim to seize all the assets, auction them and, if he has a privilege, satisfy him alone. And then, the remaining creditors, if not enough, can stay with their claim, without being able to satisfy the debtor, i.e. the natural person, may not have the possibility of a second chance and not only, but for any asset acquired in the future, may also be entitled to claim the remaining creditors who have not been satisfied. In other words, with the current regime - which you want to protect - the natural person has no protection, loses all his property, without having the second chance of being restored and rejoined in his social and economic life. So what, ladies and gentlemen, is it a more favourable status for natural persons? What is imported by the provisions of the bill or the current one? I think the answer on the basis of what I told you is obvious. Also, with regard to the loss after the bankruptcy, Mrs Ahtsoglou referred to the provisions of Article 8 and 9 of Law 3869/2010 and said that in three years' time he could pay his debts, in accordance with the provision of Article 8 laid down by the court, to be exempted from the other debts, while this is not the case with the draft law under discussion. This is partly true because you have omitted, my fellow Member, to refer to the provision of Article 9 - to the next one - which, in order for the debtor to be exempt, should be cleared up by the liquidator as a whole. And who's called a clearer? The one the creditors point out. Therefore, your argument is inappropriate and the draft law under discussion introduces more favourable arrangements for the debtor. As regards, Mr President, because time is running out - the claim for compensation to workers for the validity of the complaint is not required under the draft law. There is no question of unconstitutionalism here, because there is no need to claim compensation for the workers whose contract of employment is to be terminated, but this is now a bankruptcy claim. To date, the same things mutatis mutandis - as we say in law - has been true of the Banking Code. However, I did not hear anyone objecting to anti-constitutionalism, and I did not see any objection to it being put before the courts to judge the unconstitutionality of the relevant provisions in force today in the bankruptcy code. Therefore, Mr President, with strict legal criteria, there is no question of the unconstitutionality of the provisions invoked by colleagues. And I now come to the protection of the principal residence, in accordance with the provisions of Article 21(4) of the Constitution and 17. We should be clear here and start from the scope of the provisions, because before you submit, ladies and gentlemen, an objection of unconstitutionality - I said it before - you should know the scope of the constitutional provisions. As regards Article 21(4), the State does not guarantee the acquisition of a residence, i.e. a right to a residence, but a right to a residence. That is the guarantee given by the constitutional provision and by the citizens, the provision of shelter. So the draft law guarantees it and guarantees it to an absolute extent, because no one loses their right to decent housing, because there is provision for a process not only to continue the use of the dwelling but also to be restored if the conditions laid down by the law are met. I must also say to you this: in your thoughts and your arguments, the concept of protecting the interests of the creditor has been lost and you have identified the creditors with the bankers. However, I would remind you that a creditor may also be a private person, a supplier who may be in a weaker position than the debtor and who must be protected. The state, then, must - what do it do? - balance these interests of the creditor and the debtor and will have to find the gold incision so that the creditor can also satisfy his claim. And here comes Article 17 in conjunction with Article 21(4). How can the creditor do this and what does the state have to do? It must lay down conditions under laws which respect the principle of proportionality and do not abuse the right. These conditions should therefore be introduced by the joint legislator in order to be in line with the constitutional provisions. And here I would expect you to say whether the conditions introduced by the draft law really meet the principles of proportionality and are not abusive. I think that nobody here, when compared with the existing legal regime with the one introduced by the draft law under discussion, can answer that they are more favourable. In fact, the interest of the borrower is so regulated and so balanced that he can retain his principal residence, regain his right to the property, continue to reside in his home and, of course, a second chance is given to him because he has the possibility of exploiting the post- bankruptcy property. Did he have that to date? The answer is negative. Again, I would refer you to the current provisions of the Banking Code, but also to the provisions of Law 3869 which the SYRIZA rapporteur has repeatedly invoked, because there you will see with a simple overview of the provisions, Mr President, that, for everything that the natural person who has recourse to these provisions will have the right to seize-clearance and thus anything that is acquired under the current status of the ownership of creditors. And I want to say one last word, Mr President. The main residence was fully and fully protected until 31/12/2014 by a law introduced to the National Representation by Samara-Venizelos coexistence. Since the 2015 elections under the responsibility of the then Prime Minister and the then Minister of Finance - which, if I am not mistaken, was Mr Varoufakis - the total and absolute protection of the main residence has been abolished. A number of conditions were met which were too strict and then, because the auctions of the property and the first house were many, so that the auctions from the then members of the SYRIZA were introduced with thousands of seizures and first home auctions. Finally, Mr President, I think that the draft law does not only suffer from unconstitutionalism, on the contrary, best balances the rights, as I have said, of creditors and borrowers, and guarantees that the constitutional provisions, the decent housing of the citizens, really gives a second chance and allows creditors to take part in social life again, which cannot be done today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. The Presidents of Parliament and the Members of Parliament can now take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u58	No, Mr President, it is the objection of unconstitutionalism. We can also take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u59	Easy, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. President, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u60	It's the objection of unconstitutionality!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u61	It is the objection of unconstitutionalism, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u62	It was a choice. Why? About time? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u63	Because it's the objection of unconstitutionality!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u64	All parties can talk. Rule 100 provides that the Presidents of Parliament or the Parliamentary Representatives may speak with the exception of those who are elected by the Presidents of Parliament. What's the problem? That's what I'm saying! The President has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u65	Will Mr. Velopoulos speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u66	As a speaker next, not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u67	Okay, well, the impression was that he wanted to talk. Good. Parliamentary representatives have the floor. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. He's asking for the first reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u68	Would you like to precede, Mrs. Ahchioglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u69	Yes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u70	I said, Mr. Loverdo, what the Rules of Procedure say. Now who you're going to talk is your thing. Here, Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, from the outset we have insisted on the political problem of this bill and our conflict with the philosophy and logic of the policy that this bill has. Now, if there are any issues which, in our opinion, also raise unconstitutionality, what has been put forward by the rapporteur of Mera25 in our view is well founded, that is to say, in Article 117 there is a distinction without explanation between other creditors and financial institutions and says that while all other payments are suspended in relation to other creditors, especially for financial institutions, this is not the case. Here we have a distinction unjustified, without obvious reason. In other words, we have a disparate treatment of similar situations. In our opinion, therefore, there is a question with the principle of equality and Article 4. Where there is a justification for such a distinction, it has not been lodged and it does not arise. In the second question concerning Articles 164 and 263(2), in fact, concerning the deprivation of an asset entirely, in fact under the Constitution and Article 17(2), if that were to be covered by public interest, that would be justified. This does not seem to indicate the public interest coverage. So from the outset there seems to be a violation of this article. However, the principle of proportionality does not seem to be complied with. Obviously it may be appropriate to cover a purpose, but it is not suitable to cover a purpose in the public interest. It is certainly not necessary and certainly does not meet the principle of proportionality, that is to say, that it should be the instrument to that end. In other words, we have a total deprivation of an asset right for a purpose that is not even in the public interest. On the third point, which concerns the transfer of ownership of the vulnerable citizen to a private body, there is indeed a problem. I think that the explanation given by the New Democracy rivals probably confirms what was said before on anti-constitutionality, in other words that the state guarantees the provision of housing. That's exactly what we're talking about. Here the property is transferred to a private body and the state does not in fact control the provision of shelter - attention - to the most vulnerable, so neither is the social purpose supposed to have. It's exactly what's being violated. In this sense, there is a serious issue here too. Incidentally, on this matter, it appears that the Government at the outset wanted that body to be public. I quote in the Minutes the exact expression of the post-Memorandum of Surveillance in New Democracy, where - you will forgive me for reading it in English - the Government then said in May 2020: 'The Draft code also contaiins a proposal for a sale - and please back scheme, where the private seating of illiterate borrowers could be bought by a state - outdated entity'. They wanted to have a public body. Then it obviously changed under the pressure of the banks and became private, so here it needs or change this directly or at least somehow. However, there is an issue of unconstitutionality for us here too. So, as far as the issues raised, in particular, by Mera25 are concerned, we consider the objections to be well founded. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] However, the main rivals of the New Democracy were placed on the bill as a whole. He also made an overall review of what SYRIZA did with the first residence. I am not going to violate the procedure, as he did, but because it has been mentioned in my name many times: the Katseli Act has a general regulation and still remains in force, Article 8. You have no real estate, says Katseli, you have to pay a instalment that's taken from you by the court, which is estimated you can pay. This dose is three years old - it says - and after this three-year dose you're relieved. Another issue of the first residence. There it calculates, regardless of property, a dose for first residence, may be zero, etc. And you pay that price as a second process. If that's not enough, the court - he says below - controls whether you have any other property and whether the court considers that it can be liquid and if it considers that it can be liquidated to cover creditors. Therefore, these issues do not apply to automatic liquidation. In practice, I should like to tell you what's going on. In practice, the courts are not being liquidated at the moment. They do not decide to liquidate citizens' properties in the province of homes, etc. I am not speaking - and I say again - of the first residence, but of the other debts. They only liquidate large urban properties that have not been liquidated. The new bankrupt, your own, the new bill, what does it say? Everything goes into bankruptcy, everything gets liquid, plus the income that goes beyond reasonable living needs, you don't have to pay instalments, but you lose everything and it only relieves you if you lose everything. In this sense, in the old regime, the natural person was exempting his or her debts by keeping his or her principal residence and by not bankruptcy. Under the new regime, the natural person is relieved of his debts by not keeping his home and bankrupt. It's obvious that it's a more unfavourable regime. I don't know how you claim anything different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, allow me an introductory parentheses. My university status is inactive, because I'm a congressman. But before I was elected, when I taught the constitutionality of the laws in the introductory lesson, I used an example from the comics, a legend judge, who gave justice to saloon of the time. So the judge, reading the legal text on which he sentenced or acquitted, had the defendants in front of him and read the offences. So he read about thefts, about thefts, about the robbery, about the damage of foreign property, about physical damage and ending with a great deal of effort, and he read 'casus belli' because he was reading it. I would like to tell you that the example of this is used to say that it is another thing that zooclide and another thing is the cause of war. So, by transferring the debate to Parliament, I would like to say to the colleagues who have defended and have proposed the unconstitutionality that we may, in a draft law, criticise specific provisions on the unfairness, the negative manner in relation to the citizens and the commandees, the disastrous way for families. Sometimes criticism goes further. The Minister for Legislative Initiative is being reproached and we end up in votes where we stand positively or negatively by those who are criticizing, such as those who stand negatively. Another evil law, another unconstitutional law. It's a big difference. And because I have a responsibility on the part of the Change Movement to stand or submit unconstitutional objections to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, I would like us to keep our credibility as political parties. I do not blame my fellow Members for defending the unconstitutionality of provisions. I am simply tabling the viewpoint through which we are looking at this as a Parliament. We must pay attention to all those who are speaking on this point that when lawyers on the part of the parties are presenting objections to the courts with similar content, the judge makes a historical interpretation of the Constitution revolves in our debate here. I do not want to see anyone in this Chamber - and I think no one wants them to say 'good' when the judges read their pleas. So the argument that an anti-constitutional provision wants attention. By safeguarding the prestige of the argument and the seriousness of ours, we keep for a few moments the presentation of such requests. We are very pitiful, because dialogue since we are discussing constitutionality and it is not political as it is legal and constitutional. So we see those provisions that Members have put forward, heard and debates which have taken place so far, and we understand that sometimes there are problems with the provisions, and in this case we can find problems and the vote will show where we are positive, where we are negative. Mr. Katrinis was very thorough in his negative criticism of the draft law. But this is another vote on unconstitutionalism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. For the JRC, the main feature of the bill is the nature of the JRC. We are dealing with an anti-linguistic bill, with a travel bill, with a Frankenstein bill, which seeks to become a mess in popular property, in poor popular layers of poor people, in professionals, traders, self-employed, in poor-medium farms, even in production machinery, on earth work machinery. The ultimate goal of the bill is not to concentrate the land on real estate, but also economic activity on less and less hands, on the hands of banks and capital in general. It is an insult, I would say, that which the New Democracy claimed to protect natural persons. Who? The vulnerable, vulnerable debtors, which means those with an income of up to 7,000 euros. So, do you seriously claim, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that a person with an income of EUR 7,000 can meet his needs and save, so that after twelve years he will be able to buy his home again, deleting what he has done? How can that be math? Before we had the 'Syria' mathematics, we now have 'neo-democratic' mathematics. Is it possible? Only if the jocker gets caught, he can buy it again! What are you talking about and mocking people that they will be able to buy their home? It's never gonna happen. From this point of view, we are clean. The civil constitution serves the interests of big capital, the interests of the ruling class. Any reference to the rights of the people is of no practical value, because there are no statements on the substance, empty content and no safeguards for their infringement. It is what it is said that the urban constitution is a 'ladder' Constitution. The equality he claims is falsified because, look at capitalism like any exploitation system, the law is measured by force. The stronger one is, the more right he is. And from that point of view alone, your hypocrisy emerges.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Hetas as Parliamentary Representative has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start in a little bit. I did not expect any different treatment from the representative of the New Democracy Government, of course. I was ahead of you, Mr Colleague, and I said that you have this specificity, this terrible talent to make the meat fish. You did it. In fact, you have proved us that you have this opportunity, this opportunity to baptize the fish meat. I also want to observe your prelude. It's incredible what you've shown, the meaning, the sympathy - we've wept - for creditors. Who are the creditors, Mr. Comrade? The banks and the loan sharks? Are you serious? Do you care so much about the balance between creditors, banks and loan sharks? So who gives the people money? Where do the Greeks owe? The banks and the loan sharks. They don't owe anyone else. What kind of premiere is that of the New Democracy? It's really incredible! Now, there's a difference in how everyone interprets the Constitution. You told us that other is the residence and the roof. I don't know what exactly you want to say to the Greek people, really. Is the residence different and the roof? Listen a little, you'll answer to the Greek people. From today on, you will answer for Armageddon who comes to the Greek people. I want to say to the representative of SYRIZA - I do not know whether he was in the Chamber or not - that the Greek Solution was the first party to file an application for unconstitutionality. Yet, he did not refer to the Greek Solution. She forgot. He referred to Merra25. I don't know, it did, but our request for unconstitutionality is ten pages - Article 95, Article 76(4), Article 92, Article 17, Article 109, Article 218, Article 220 - and we have not only overwritten the two that have been "collapsed" by PART25 and filed the request for unconstitutionality, but they are all the rest. He did not make a reference to the Greek unconstitutionality request. It was a surprise to us. But, if you agree and judge these articles, why didn't you all submit with us here an application for unconstitutionality? You agree that they are unconstitutional, but we have put back on Mr Stakoura today, as SYRIZA does on all major and serious issues. And now, because we are in the Greek Parliament and not in some chamber of law, or in some amphitheater, and because we are not happy with being constitutionalists, I would like to say that even the constitutionalists in this Chamber have been very responsible for many years for not having a constitutional court today and not having us either the presidents or the constitutionalists, because if there were any constitutional court, we would not have had this debate here today, because ten constitutionalists who were different, ten different opinions. This is the reality, how each one interprets and what dimension each one gives. Mr President, we are closing this up and saying: we had no illusion about the course of the debate. We wanted these things to be heard more strongly in the Greek Parliament and we made use of this right, in the application for unconstitutionality. The rest of you will tell the Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou has the floor since Merra25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u79	I shall be speaking for a moment on the request for unconstitutionality tabled by the Greek Solution. As regards Article 109(1), which provides that compensation for the validity of the complaint is not required, which means, not that compensation will not be due but that dismissal due to non-payment is not invalid, that is a copy of the already applicable code under Article 34 of Law 3588/2007. It has already been in force since 2007 and so far no objection of anti-constitutionality has been raised, it has not been considered an anti-constitutional. On the objection to Article 218, as I developed before and Mera25 lodged an objection with its own arguments. As far as the other provisions are concerned, we have not been misunderstood in relation to the arguments. We believe that the arguments are somewhat maximistic, that they are not interpretative. In any case, of course, as to the question of the bankruptcy of individuals, even if there is no question of a direct violation of the Constitution, as a MERA25, we are clearly opposed - and clearly opposed - to the very logic of assimilating traders to individuals for purely legal reasons that I shall develop in my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, we have seen an inexperienced and irresponsible populism on the part of the Greek Solution, an effort, like the previous ones which had raised the issue of unconstitutionalism, the creation of simple impressions. I will not get carried away by the parliamentary representative - and I understand it - and by the President of the Greek Solution in a debate, in a demagogic complaint. I think Mr. Loverdus' placement was teaching. Of course, I do not think the representative of the Greek Solution fully understood it, because in his second position he started talking about constitutionality with the kilo, that is, the heavier the application is the more important it is. I would, however, like to agree with him that it might be useful to have a debate on the issue of the constitutional court, but if you had been so placed, so would society and Parliament. But let us look at the specific issues you have raised. Firstly, the Scientific Service of the Parliament itself has found no block of unconstitutionalism. Do you accept it or not? Secondly, you have invoked the violation of the principle of equality with the possibility that natural persons should go bankrupt. However, the Union directive itself provides for this possibility of introducing bankruptcy for natural persons. Unless you want us to leave that logic. It is an arrangement that gives tens of thousands of our fellow citizens the opportunity to break this vicious circle of their debts. The Minister explained it to you many times. You will have the pleasure to inspire them today throughout the whole debate and understand why this second opportunity is important to the future of the majority of Greek citizens. Thirdly, with regard to the so-called violation of Article 17 and Article 21 of the Constitution, there is no provision in the Constitution - and Mr Bugas said so - for the absolute and unconditional protection of the first residence. If this were anticipated, then our banking system would not function as it works, there would not be the property right of the mortgage, but most importantly, the auctions would not take place as they are so far. If you match the position of the Communist Party of Greece for a change in the whole logic of urban democracy, it is important to say it, otherwise do not get confused. But the objection, which you have put forward, beyond unfounded, ends up being deeply unconstitutional at its core. It is fundamentally infringing the constitutional principle of equality for citizens and it would be useful in your speeches after you tell us - and since it is your President here to explain it to us - how a simple citizen, one who can, will normally pay his loan, while another citizen will not pay it without any consequence. That's what you suggest. You are proposing that we create two-speed citizens and, basically, two-class citizens. You referred to Article 21 and to the state's obligation to ensure decent living conditions. So let's do a brief regression. Auctions, as you know, have not been invented now. They were from 2010 onwards. There were also our fellow citizens, who during periods of complete prosperity, were unable to pay and lose their homes. It's not the first time. On the other hand, New Democracy is the first government - and that is what we need to inspire in this Chamber, all the parties - which comes and brings about a permanent mechanism, precisely in the protection of first residence. Katseli and SYRIZA's arrangements - which were practical arrangements on the Katseli Act, were not an overall framework, totalling a solution - and in many, they have failed and everyone admits that. We are now in the process of establishing a stable policy for the protection of our vulnerable fellow citizens. We observe the Constitution precisely, and this was analysed in a legal way by Mr Bougas and demonstrated by Mr Lovers' position. Thirdly, with regard to the compensation of workers whose contracts are denounced. It is clear that you, too, are not at all studied, gentlemen of the Greek Solution, because you simply wanted to do doro and you did not care what you are writing on these pages. This provision of Article 109 constitutes, in essence, a mot, a repetition of the rules already in force for thirteen years under Article 34 of the Banking Code in force. A number of orders have been put in court and its constitutionality has been fully judged, and this has also been heard before the Chamber. With regard to the objection of Meramopoulos, I note and think that we all understand this here, but also all outside this Chamber, is that there is a need for particular courage - not from my colleague Mrs Adamopoulos, who has been trying to do the best she can - from the party of the man who has broken up the Greek economy, then, of course, chasing the illusions of Mr Tsipras as his Minister, to come here and raise these issues. In my opinion, it is also a nerve to come and slap at the last moment in the sense of Mera25 and SYRIZA, through his representative, and to say that "yes, now that we have seen the subject of Mera25, there is an unconstitutionality, but come to discuss it." I would remind you that it was Mr Varoufakis, Minister for Finance, Mr Tsipras - we do not forget this, and today we saw Mrs Ahtsoglou trying to link the two eras, the two parties - which led to the closure of the banks and the damage of the Greek economy with 100 billion. It was precisely the Tsipras government, with Mr Varoufakis, who created the conditions precisely so that Samaras - Venizelos government - Venizelos, which provided for the universal protection of the first home, did not apply. That's why you didn't say a word. I hope you'll tell me later. In conclusion, it is clear that this bill is completely constitutional and as I said before giving a second chance to thousands of our fellow citizens. We in the majority are proud that the Minister of Finance, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, brings this bill, gives a second chance and finally closes an issue, which no one dared to open until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u84	Wait a minute. The ministers will talk. You want the floor on staff? To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u85	He referred to Mr Varoufakis and I represent him. I'm a parliamentary representative. I will not speak much, Mr President, for a minute at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u86	You've exhausted your time. You've all spoken to each other. You can talk if there's anything personal. Is there any staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u87	Personal not to me. Against Mr Varoufakis whom I represent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u88	A crisis took place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u89	He slandered us, Mr President, enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, it is a permanent communication policy of the New Democracy to succeed against Mr Varoufakis, which is generally mentioned, with abstracts. We really invite you to submit specific mathematical data in the Minutes in order to justify what you are saying against Mr Varoufakis and to publish them already. So general and communication, these are unfounded. The Greek people understand that and what they understand above all is that the destruction and poverty of the Greek people are the result of your own toxic policies, of all the Memorandum governments. [[Applause from the wing of SYRIZA and Mera25]] When you talk about Mr. Varoufakis, it is important to testify and speak with specific evidence. At some point we can finally look at these elements for the man, who is the only one who didn't conspiracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u91	To justify what I said before, too. This is not a personal matter. There is a provision in the Rules of Procedure, however, which says that if there is an inaccurate position or criticism of a parliamentary group or a Head, the parliamentary representative may soon give clarification. In a broad sense, we appreciate that this has been done. The co-legislative ministers have the right to both speak. Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start at the end after we were challenged not to speak vaguely, but specifically. December 2014: the participation of Greek taxpayers in Greek banks was EUR 11,62 billion. We received it in June 2019, with EUR 1,42 billion. Because of your policy, 10 billion euros were lost by foreign taxpayers. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u93	Don't interrupt, please. Nobody interrupted you. Please! It's been a good conversation at scientific level so far. Let him finish. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u94	Secondly, in this Chamber all these years, when we have had a debate on an application for unconstitutionality, many colleagues - and rightly so - have invoked the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament. I would like to tell you that it may be the first time that I have been following bills over the past few years, that a report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament has no, not even a formal argument, for an unconstitutional application. Of course, I am impressed by the fact that at the last minute SYRIZA dragged behind the Mera25 for one, two provisions. But you will allow me to say that you have actually answered it yourself. You said in your prototype, perhaps you did not understand, that "we have no special ambition for how the request for unconstitutionality will go, we have nothing substantial, we do it for communication reasons, for the people". But here we are talking about unconstitutionalism. You also said that we are trying to protect the banks, "the Greeks owe them and the loan sharks." They also owe EUR 134 billion to taxes and insurance funds. And what we are trying to do is face up to the citizens' total debt in taxes, insurance funds and banks, EUR 134 billion in these agencies. Not to say we're doing it for the banks. And let that, as you heard in the committee, banks in contrast to what the Qualified Opposition argued, were contrary and by letters to aspects of the bill. Regarding the infringement referred to in Article 4 of the Constitution: The law on the substance does not prescribe equal treatment between traders and natural persons as they are subject to separate and different conditions between small-scale bankruptcys, which mostly concern natural persons, and most bankruptcys, which mostly concern companies. Criterion in any case is the amount of debts. I have listened to colleagues' protagonists saying that an operation is already exempted from the institutional framework at two years' time. With the existing provision, an entrepreneur must wait for the company to be declared bankrupt, i.e. a few years, then he must wait another two years and then apply to the court and when the court becomes and the decision is made, then he is relieved. Do you know how much it takes for that? I think you all know that very well. To date, therefore, very few have been exonerated. Now with our bill, the debtor makes an application, becomes a single court and a year after that is relieved, and this is called a real discharge and a second opportunity. In accordance with both the provisions of the Constitution and the supranational rules, persons in different situations must be treated differently, to the extent necessary, in order to allow them to take advantage of specific opportunities on an equal footing with other persons. Therefore, the element of the amount of debts constitutes an adequate justification in particular in the field of bankruptcy law as it constitutes the most appropriate criterion for distinguishing between the debtors since, as you know, the constitutional principle of equality has the meaning of proportional and not numerical equality. Regarding the infringement referred to in Article 17(1) and 21(1) and (2) of the Constitution: The fair expenditure criterion is one of the two criteria for the inviolability of bankruptcy. The second criterion is the rules of law already laid down in our legal order concerning the unreasonable and exempted assets and income of the debtor, which is also provided for here. In short, the wages and pensions for which particular mention is made are also protected in the draft law and in the Code of Civil Procedure. In this respect, the regulations of the present are on the solid tracks of the existing institutional framework, while in full harmony with the constitutional rules, which have doubled and split in the last years that our society has been subject to the crisis. The cost-benefit criterion involves in its own hearts the care of decent living. It should also be clarified that the protection resulting from Article 21 of the Constitution falls within the framework of social protection which constitutes an autonomous policy pillar whose arrangements are not affected by the provisions of the present. How is depriving or not taking care of the family when the debtor, provided that the beneficiary of the family benefits is fully taken into account? Where is it foreseen that this bill moves outside the framework of the welfare policy of the State when there is a separate chapter in the same bill to preserve the first home of the most vulnerable households? And because some have said that there is now discharge, so what new one brings you, I answered you earlier. And in what was heard that the debtor loses his home and is employed in it, I would remind the opposition, especially in Civic Antipolis, of what happens after the law was abolished by SYRIZA in February 2019. The citizen loses his house in auction due to debts. So he's confronted with a direct eviction from it. The draft law, which we are introducing today to be voted on, protects the residence of our vulnerable compatriots more effectively and remains there, and provides the possibility of buying back over twelve years and, in the meantime, it has been exempted from the debts that are borne by it, and here is a real second opportunity. Finally, as regards the infringement referred to in Article 22(1)(a) of the Constitution: it should be noted that neither the right of workers nor the provisions of the Constitution are affected. Compensation is claiming itself, the right remains active and is exercised as laid down in the law. It is also a question of unconstitutionality in compensation for redundancy when the employee is dismissing his own job because of bankruptcy. With regard to the infringements referred to in Article 17(1) and paragraphs 21 and 4 of the Constitution in respect of the institution: it is clear that those arrangements fall within the scope of protection of vulnerable persons. First of all, it is only from the fact that, as I said before, the right to rebuild the property to the borrower is reserved. This entity ensures both that the obligor remains in his residence, which would lose and be forced to go out because of the fact that he would be faced with auction procedures and I said so shortly ago, as well as the possibility of regaining the property from him in a sufficient period of 12 years that allows him to recover. At the same time, it offers the debt relief by offering it a real opportunity to return to economic life. Therefore, the legal form of the entity does not affect or deprive the effective protection granted to the borrower, and most importantly, while the public administration has been conceived in a number of its actions, it is exercised by entities which have the legal form of the individual. Finally, at both points of the unconstitutionality of Mera25 on Article 117(c): payments for late payment are withdrawn in another way and not in cash other than voluntary concessions for real estate to credit institutions. There is already an explicit provision in FEK B/2376/2016 Annex 2, Section 3, case B’. Finally, Article 164(A)’. Firstly, fixed legal practice to return to the public the indisposable or incomplete assets. I would remind you that the provisions of hereditary law in which the State recommends the indivisible heir of the fifth class are the special liquidation provisions of Article 14A of Law 3429/2005. Secondly, for the debtor - a natural person there is provision to remain the property to him if he is not required by the public or social security institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 13(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of unconstitutionalism has been completed. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism, i.e. that the bill is not in line with the Constitution, regarding all the articles proposed by the Greek Solution, please rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Apparently, the fewer were raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. By accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, i.e. that the bill is not in line with the Constitution, on the articles proposed by Mera25, I would ask them to rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Apparently, the fewer were raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation on the public health front is critical. For daily negative coronary cases, do not show elsewhere, gentlemen of the government, because everything shows that you have the first, the greatest responsibility because in the name of the resiliences of the economy, that is, the requirements of capital, protection measures go for walk. See every day, dozens of workplaces, factories, businesses throughout Greece are evolving in viral translocations and leave what you know to throw, as always, responsibility for the people for youth. In fact, your ministers had the courage to relate the increased cases to the great anti-fascist gathering outside the court of appeal, except that the evidence itself disproves you. On October 7th, the day of the gathering, the Attica cases on the overall cases were at 47.7%, while yesterday they were 38% unless you tell us that the more than twenty thousand who were outside the court of appeal migrated northern Greece. All you've done is make a fool of yourself. We tell you again, now take measures to shield the public health system, do the necessary recruitment, ensure the required infrastructure, take all necessary protective measures in schools, workplaces, public transport. Do it now before it's too late. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as you are trying to convince the workers that by the new bankruptcy code you are giving a second chance to the highly indebted households the truth is simpler, you simply protect the banks' funds by obliging the highly indebted people to pay as much as possible of their poor income in order for the banks to collect. Nowhere does the view that you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, show that the draft law gives the possibility of exempting the highly indebted households. In fact, the bill stipulates for those who cannot afford to serve their loans the commitment of all of their assets, of course giving them the choice of banks to gain whatever they want. It predicts that for three years one will work practically for the bank by keeping for himself only a small amount of living and the bank will automatically collect all the rest of the salary. The employee is turning into a bank servant. His fortune is controlled by the bank and for three years he works and the salary goes automatically to the bank and at the end of this three-year period the bank is given the opportunity to characterize the employee as a bad option and as uncooperative to load him new loans. The prediction you are doing is really innovative for the interests of big capital. Practically you tell the borrowers: "The bank will take you all the money, but it's not all enough, you'll work for three years and your salary will go to the bank, you'll keep the minimum otherwise you can go to jail." Of course your predictions do not leave the unavoidable first home that is also sold out to fuel the banks' profits and investments. Your prediction of the 12-year stay of some, not all, in their homes as tenants is both challenging and unacceptable. Make workers tens of thousands of euros in their homes, while in others, for what is of intense investment interest, you will get them out directly characterizing them as unsensitive groups. This is the 'legal' violence of the urban state. That's what you bring and you can't make fun of anyone. The framework you bring is organically integrated into the whole of your policy. First of all, it strengthens the banks that receive as much as possible from the divestment of the people's property or by obliging workers to work for the banks and reduces, as far as possible, the problem of red loans at a time when banks need to avoid new red loans to fruit the various packages of the European Central Bank. Investments in tourism and regeneration in town centers are progressing rapidly, since banking capital armed with the new legislation will bring to the hammer all the worthy properties of popular people, will gather them and speed up the investment in question. Workers owed to the bank will be found to lose their grandfather's field in the village if a group for tourist investments or a house that is at some point in the city where capital wants to invest and regenerate. These arrangements are not at all irrelevant with the most famous "big walk" of Athens. In order to implement all these investments in the centre you will force thousands of small owners to sell their property to the large tourist monopolies. At the same time, cultivate the culture you want, the famous 'payment culture'. You say to the worker: "You are to blame, you have borrowed and now you have to pay at any price". And they get away with it, of course, and some naive people, because you say it and repeat it like parrots. Your framework is exactly what bank capital needs today, investors for the next day to ensure their profits alone. And that is why this framework you bring is not in its direction, of course, something new. You are completing the management framework for red loans, which has been unfolding - as we call it - for over a decade now. From Katseli to the bill you are bringing today, this is the same reactionary direction to the problem of red loans, their transfer to the backs of workers, professionals. One more symphony sheet is simply drawn every time. Step by step - every government, as it was called a Memorandum, Memorandum, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA - promotes more and more reactionary arrangements to load the crisis on the backs of the Greek people. That is why, as we speak, it is not exactly your own contribution to the 'payment culture' and to the obligation for the people to pay as much as possible, in fact it is SYRIZA. You bring today's three-year work in favour of the bank, that is to say you're doing it more. Electronic auctions are the SYRIZA initiative, as in the years of its governance, thousands of them became. You bring today an electronic asset calculation to speed up the procedures, bring the e-sniper who will examine everyone's solvency in order to scroll and know the bank capital where to give and where to get. The patent for the abolition of the protection of the first residence is SYRIZA, you of the New Democracy give the gift shot. Katseli Law patents are the calculation of the total property and the provision for divestment of it and then all the rest of the legal arsenal, you simply system this process further. The essence of the intersection that you eventually bring is simple: you are even more proclaiming the great capitalist property at the expense of every right of the people. The dignity, the needs of the worker, the employee and the professional, the right to a comfortable life are not worth in front of your "silver" law of property and, indeed, the great capitalist property. That is why you deprive the worker of the right to be judged by the judge who has had the opportunity so far and often decided that the debt to the bank does not take precedence over his other rights. First, you have 'expressed' the protection framework for debt to the state - 'hand-hand' with the previous SYRIZA government - and now you are moving on to the other private debts. It does not give us any impression of what you are doing. It is the core of your party's policy, like any urban party, that is, that the legal framework should serve capitalist development and the profitability of large business groups. How do you dress all this? With the most famous "individual responsibility" that in the free market if you borrow, you owe. "Software" will think of a good man. What do you cover up, though? The fact that a very large majority did not borrow to invest in large-scale investment projects. Although, as we say, the real strategic misappropriations are all these: the big shareholders, the shipowners, the owners of large public limited companies that are subsidised, collect hundreds of millions of dollars - either by investment packages or by genuinely "sea-tree" - are behind corporate schemes and never pay. But you don't want them or you can hunt them down. The vast majority of the people borrowed to put a "keramide" above their head, buying houses at prices that were constantly escalating. Also, these people were borrowed to satisfy the urgent needs of their lives, who could not cover them otherwise. But then the capitalist crisis itself and its management policy in favour of groups smashed employees, retired, self-employed, small businessmen and led to the renowned red loans. So the question, gentlemen, is who is to blame for this situation. Is it the fault of those who borrowed again to buy a house when they could not buy it in any other way and, indeed, at a time when the system itself was advertising and giving billions of loans? When all governments spoke about "strong Greece" and told the world that there is no problem. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not all these people's fault. Because, in the end, the cause of red loans is precisely in the policy of all of you. It is in this system that overloaded popular layers and forced the system itself to resort to bank lending, to those who gave loans with the pile, to those who advertised that things would get better and better. Is it the popular strata of the constant capitalist crises, the crises, that is, a system which you and all those on the same "blue" are presenting as a one-way street on which we absolutely have to move? A year ago you said that the cause of the crisis was the various bad texts until then of the Greek reality, which you were supposed to change. But "before a dilemma you are voiced", the new international economic crisis, which has only accelerated because of the coronary, has also occurred. Ladies and gentlemen, in the same speech as the employees and pensioners you condemn both the free traders and, indeed, the time when a large part of them sees their debts escalate, as all the investigations show. Do your utmost to collect the last available euro of a micro-enterprise. That is why in the bill you are baptizing them all, regardless of income and legal form, "solvable" to speed up these processes. Regulated assets and binding part of the professionals' already busted income, you are objectively inaugurating a new vicious cycle of debt growth. Which one of these small businessmen, after you have led them to destruction and committed their incomes for years, will he be able to keep his business and live in his family? If you want to protect them, as you say, you can explain to us the small-scale bankruptcies planned for these businesses, precisely what all the trade unions of self-employed entrepreneurs are complaining about as particularly burdensome. On top, you mock professionals, telling them that you are forming counselling and early warning mechanisms - it says - for their debts. If you don't already know, let us tell you that the professionals' problem is not that they are ignorant about the course of their business or their own debts. They know all this very well. Their problem was and is the policies that raise these debts, especially in crisis conditions and given the domination of major capitalist enterprises in your very favorite free market. It was taxation from the first euro and the imposition of characters, such as the trade fee, which increased their debts in the exact previous crisis. It was the increased insurance contributions, which, together with taxation, often even exceeded 50% of the income. It was yours and the other governments that tightened up the due-to-deposit framework, which carried individual debts to the debt collection centre, which you made hundreds of thousands of bank commitments, collecting all their gross income, even for debts of EUR 500, leading thousands of them to slow death. Let go of words, then, leave the mockery and tell us: The thousands of free professionals in the focus, trade, elsewhere, who are growing at this time, with their cigarettes even falling by over 50%, what fate is awaiting them with this new bankruptcy code? Unfortunately, the tax and insurance obligations you have transferred for a number of months, without reducing them by even 1 euro, will be added to those that are "current" and will bring thousands of professionals in front of a gulf of threats, seizures and auctions. Let's not hide. If you really wanted to limit the daily suffering of professionals, you would adopt the demands of their mass operators, you would adopt the proposals that the JRC has repeatedly tabled to the House to protect the financially weakest, such as the reintegration of self-employed persons into a tax-free limit of EUR 12 000, or the definitive deletion of interest and 30% of debts on tax and on the banks. But that's what you say the economy can't handle. Because your first and main concern is precisely the support of tens of billions of euros from monopolies and the various groups. The support of large businesses "eyes" in your bankruptcy code, where, among other challenging things, the workers' contracts of employment are settled in the event of bankruptcy. In other words, they are automatically made redundant and thrown on the road and, indeed, without compensation. The provision is particularly favourable to the large groups, of course, who can make the various charges among themselves, with 'clean' companies from workers and from rights. This provision in the new bankruptcy code is a continuation of the laws of the SYRIZA Government, implementing the prerequisites of the third Memorandum, and has made sure that the requirements of the employees are undermined and, in the event of the company going bankrupt, that the banks with the workers remain without any protection. The amendment tabled yesterday by the JRC Parliamentary Group gives such a breath to workers. It provides for the self-evident need to precede labour requirements in the event of bankruptcy or the auctioning of an undertaking. Your plan is innovative and yet another reason: For the first time the so-called "private bankruptcy" of natural persons is introduced. This provision equates employees, pensioners, unemployed with businesses and traders. Finally, you are calling for the American 'how much do you want?', 'how worth', that is, the criterion of each worker, of every people's household, of every people. This is, literally, an unacceptable provision. Of course that doesn't surprise us. It does nothing but align the essence of the barbarity of this society with the type and law of class violence. It just reveals what the real content of your own capitalist development path is. All for you are an APM, a number connected to a sum: how much do you deserve? This is a continuation and escalation of the current unacceptable situation of the current bankruptcy code, which put large companies and monopolistic groups on the one hand and self-employed professionals, craftsmen on the other. The single grid of arrangements for them is justified in the name of the free market and serves only the objectives of competitiveness, thus facilitating the concentration, concentration of capital at the expense of small companies that are being destroyed. Even in your view and substance of the law, equality requires a similar treatment of similar situations, but the similar treatment of disparate situations is simply inequality. When the bank and the unemployed are treated in the same way, this is a flagrant inequality, a outrageous injustice. He can't and he won't stand any MATs you carry to bruise any prisons, no matter how much you fill up with the highly indebted households. Do not, then, react when we reveal that the formal equality of your own civil laws obscures the class structure of society within this system, which today leads to constant reactivation of the whole of law, justice, by abolishing all kinds of protective framework that has been left in favour of workers and the weak - as you say - citizens. You do not have the right to move the finger on workers, in popular layers, on professional self-employed persons. You and all those who defend all this injustice, which you always repeat as the daughter of an eyewitness the laws of this inequality, are responsible for the red loans. Your capitalist way created and continuously created economic catastrophes, crises, loans that are not repaid, capital which is devalued, large businesses that eat small, self-employed, the populace. This is the content of the way you deal with red loans and you and previous governments. Only - even for capital, for capitalist immunity, their ownership. Can red loans be treated differently, as supported by SYRIZA, who promises a magical way in which they win - says - both the overdue households and capitalist growth today and the banks? He knows, of course, he's making fun of himself. And those who don't know it should be too naive to believe it, as things are just here. There is no free meal and, unfortunately, anyone will always lose. We can't all win. We all know that now. The crisis has led to a depreciation of capital, and someone has to pay for it. And this is the people, as always. However, the return to capitalist development - for those who are waiting for it and, more quickly than is generally foreseen - means that the burden will fall back on the workers' backpack. You say when, and no truth, that there can be no capitalist recovery - that is, the profitability of capital to be explained - if the rights and income of the people are not broken, as you do with this bill, as did the previous SYRIZA government, which, on its day, did not show up the miraculous solution that solves the problem of red loans without anyone having to bear. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, have the watermelon and the knife. The road and the development plan you have leads only to constant crises, which, after having loaded them into the people's backs, making use of the legislative framework that you are voting on and, of course, to the state mechanism that you are strengthening, a policy which, in order to serve the profits of banks and investors, and through red loans, turns the people into a tenant in his home, forces him to sell his fortune to investors, forces him to work for three years for the banks. So this policy has a name. It is called "capitalism" that as long as it rots, it is forced to fly more and more figs. We say it's not a one-way street. There is also a radically different development path, which will relieve society of capitalist ownership and exploitation, from the power of big capital, has no economic crises, wars, no unleashing of people to pay debts and make hotels. There is the way out, that is, socialism. As a JRC, today we call on the people to draw conclusions, to see from their own experience who is telling them truth and who is lying. We call on him to see if, in the end, communism or capitalism, in other words, hotel owners, banks and the European Union, which you are constantly blessing. We also call on him to see that either with New Democracy or with SYRIZA, whether with memorials or without memorials, this policy is identical and invariable, to see how a unique realistic solution to meet its needs is to fight, conflict with this policy and with all its versions. On this road we invite every worker, every self-employed micro-enterprise, a professional. This road to organising the struggle also serves the framework with the demands for immediate relief of the people and the highly indebted households that we have repeatedly tabled and in the form of draft laws, which have, of course, been rejected by both New Democracy and SYRIZA. Not only must the workers and the self-employed not just step on the pineapple of the so-called second opportunity you are telling them, but they must condemn in every way this bill and the continuation of the same anti-grassroots policy, take their place in a fight that strengthens their alliance, their unity to overthrow these reactionary policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group now has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, until the Step is ready, I would like to inform you that the vote will take place at 12 noon in the evening. In view of the fact that there are too many Members who will be speaking - they are about ninety-six - and the parliamentary representatives have not yet spoken, with the consent of this House and then with the President, to arrange the time for five minutes with one tolerance. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u98	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u99	We can't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Velopoulou, I'm sorry to make an announcement. SYRIZA submitted a request for a roll-call vote which reads as follows: To the Honorable President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula Konstantinos. Mr President, on the basis of Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we Members who are signatory to this request shall request a roll-call vote on articles 76, 77, 92, 100, 103, 137, 176, 198, 217, 218, 219, 220, 221, 222 and 268 of the Ministry of Finance's draft law on debt regulation and second opportunity. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to begin by addressing the New Democracy colleagues and her representative who spoke of constitutionality and unconstitutionality. I'll tell him that everyone can interpret the Constitution, anyway, we break it here every day - the governments break it, not us - and the memorials were unconstitutional, the S.H.E. He said so, but you never heard of it, like the pension cut. I'll only tell you something more serious. How constitutional is it, ladies and gentlemen, that your party owes hundreds of millions of euros and does not pay? How equitable, equitable? And PASOK, too. How fair is that? I can say more if you want. I never wanted to, but I'll do it now. Entrepreneurs, friends of yours most of you, such as Piladakis who owes 149m euros and make it a haircut for the bank and pay 11m euros. Mr. Ledoudis, a shipowner, owe $100 million to cut him, pay 11 million. Because the Left and the JRC are talking, but they're speaking in general. We'll call names here. The Midya family borrowed $72 million and only pays $10 million. Why didn't you make 90% haircut on all the Greek citizens' loans? In everything, however, horizontal. So the constitutional and non-constitutional is shown by the law applications and how you apply the law as governments. And you know, the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. I've said it a thousand times. Don't scratch on the cup of chop. You cannot go bankrupt here, Minister, when your party owes 250 million euros. Why didn't your party go bankrupt? Fail it, to say you're honest, but don't walk our intelligence and don't mock our logic. And it's not populism I'm saying. You're forcing me to say it for just one reason, because you don't get hurt and you don't learn, you don't learn from your mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u102	We're paying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u103	You pay, but give the right to pay the exact same amount. Pick up the amount you're paying for. In a hundred and fifty years, you'll be out of your mind. Give the Greek citizen the right in a hundred and fifty years to pay off the 100 grand. It's gonna be 50 euros a month. Where do you say that? To me? Look for the numbers you're paying for, check your balance. I'm kind to tell you. And it's not just you. And PASOK is the same. The instalment you're paying has nothing to do with the loan you got. I mean, I'm going to get 10 million euros a month, and I'm gonna pay 30 euros a month. Are we serious? Let's actually go. Do you know why the Greek people don't believe us? Let me tell you. How serious is a party such as SYRIZA that agrees with our own request for unconstitutionality, but does not vote for it? How serious a party is that? That's why they're staying at 5%, 10%, 3%. They're going back to where they're worth 3%. Is that a reasonable party? In other words, I agree with the JRC in an unconstitutionality it will bring, but not to vote, because I am ideologically anchored in the logic of my ideology. No, it's mistakes. This is not a serious political system and not a serious political staff. Believe me, I have another view of politics. And I need to get to know Dimitris Kabanaro's family. I don't know if you know this young man. He killed himself because he was in charge of a nursing home, and because he couldn't protect his people at the nursing home, because they stuck a coronary, he killed himself. I'm arresting the family. Warm condolences. Of course, they should have killed thousands who had both secretaries, ministers and bankrupt the country, but no one commits suicide in that country. Anyway, we're going to the second chance. Clearly this is a second opportunity, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that. It's a second chance for the undertakers to bury the Greeks. That's what you do, die the Greeks. And I'll give you some evidence to understand sometime. Okay, I understand that the banks for you are the top moment of an economic policy, and for me, because I am in favour of the free economy, but this immunity is the peculiarity that my banks have with me is disturbing. Immunity real. You have made special amendments to bankers so that they won't be tried. You're giving them immunity for any decision. Tell me what kind of president or CEO is of this bank when he has no responsibility for what he signs. You have brought law on immunity of what the previous ones have done, but you have themselves on the level of borrowers. Why did you do that? And I say it very hard, you know. I won't say about Greece's debt. Minister, economics you know, I imagine. The biggest problem of the Greek economy is not public debt, it is private debt. Greek citizens owe three times over what the state owes. That's not what you've understood as a Greek state. And as much as you "health" the banks and "health" the bankers, if we do not "health" the citizens in order to be able to move the economy, to buy the products from the stores by the companies, the economy will never move. And I told you something else. Do with the businessmen the same thing as the doses on the tax office, a hundred and twenty. You know, Minister, I have proposed something much more extreme. And I won't say what you told me, it's not about the world. Do two hundred forty doses and interest and two hundred forty - forty instalments of public debt, instead of a hundred and twenty. Put the interest in it, too. I'm sure some people will go to settle. Because two hundred forty doses are 20 years old. For me, all interest on late and all that you put on must be lashed, but if you can't, because you're afraid of the troikas, the lenders, make two hundred and forty instalments along with the interest. What else can I tell you? Let's try and save some companies. Because if the companies aren't saved, we're gonna have redundancies again, we're gonna have bigger unemployment. Unemployment has already increased. I'm telling you to understand. The President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Hadjithedosios, who is a New Democracy, is no other party: "The new bankruptcy code should become a tombstone for small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals". I'm not saying it, I don't have to do anything else when your own people who are professionals say it. Because I'm very afraid we're living out here, because many of us are in here a couple of hours, we're not getting out, we're not businesspeople. It's me, but one of the three hundred I imagine a few are businessmen in here. They don't know what's going on in the market. And we legislate and never succeed with the legislature, my Minister, something better, no matter what you say to me. Leave the interest rates. Mr. Villard explained it to you. You're lying. It's the interest rate. When I have a recession of 25% over the last ten years, i.e. a fall in GDP to 30%, and a 1% interest rate, Minister, and 5% growth, if you take 25%, there is a problem. Simple arithmetic, but as everyone sees it, it puts it here. We live through hallucinations, really with hallucinations. And I say this once again: you are giving entrepreneurs a second chance real. Don't leave them at the mercy of the bankers. I told you two forty instalments. I'm sure that out of a hundred will be ten-five to make the adjustment. You'll get some money you don't have and you'll never get it. You'll get the State budget revenue you'd never have and you won't have it. And at the bottom of the line, don't be so afraid of the Germans or the troika or the bankers. They want to get money too. Well, if they want to take, we help them get them. What can I say? I can't say it any different. I am telling you, as a businessman who now has no revenue, because the market is not moving, I have a great deal of trouble firing people, Mr Staikoura, and I have five hundred workers. And with what the PSE does to me now, I'm gonna fire people, it's certain. Because I cannot understand that this independent authority, which I am glad to see, and the House - I have been saying this for six months - has not been working for the PSE gentlemen, they are slow-wondered, there is no pluralism, neither the SYRIZA nor the JRC are called. Even the Change Movement right now and then. And the President of the PSE came here and told us this unimportant because it is an independent authority. I'll read it like he said. I told you to abolish it, to improve it, or we can't. He says, therefore, the President of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency on 7 May 2020: "To identify the National Broadcasting Council if the rules of political pluralism were complied with, it is a small mystery". That is to say, he's been zapping in the news releases, he sees Mr. Tsakalotos once a month - I'm not talking about us, we're missing anyway - he doesn't see the JRC, a Zapping doing in the morning shops and shows. He's been sitting in his office all day, and he's been paid. So I'm saying a zaping. 'I can't do', he says,'something'. He says, "With water and flour you don't always do," the president of the PSE, the highest judge. But you are fermenting, Mr Minister and Mr President of the PSE. If you want to ferment, you do ferment. There can be no pluralism. Fortunately, today in the Committee on Transparency - if I am not mistaken - the whole committee said that it was doing its job poorly. I'll tell you differently. You want to evaluate public officials in the New Democracy and you do well, with you I am in evaluation. Are you questioning the people you place? You put him in President of the PSE, and the whole House says he is doing his duties poorly. Why don't you take his ear? Who is this gentleman, who does not control, because this is what was set to do, the pluralism of all constitutionals - says our Party's Constitution -. It can't work like this. He admits in the Greek Parliament that he is paid without working and there is no punishment for his ears, 'how do you not work'? In other words, we Greeks, I, the taxpayer, who paid 467,000 euros tax to pay this gentleman of the PSE and tell me "I do not do my job, but I pay the 10,000 euros or the 7,000 euros or the 6,000 euros I get the month". That's a nice state you did! In what private company, Minister, can you pay your company a director with EUR 7,000 and tell you that I don't work? This is what Mr 'I don't work' says. He told the committee himself. What private company? I have been targeted for a few months, and I do not want to think of doing this as an invisible hand, I do not want to think that there is genuinely political persecution against the Greek Solution, first our voice on the channels, and now the persecution of the emissions that I present. Listen to this: By false evidence, Mr. journalist and Mr. Professor, they now invoke Wikipedia and impose me a fine. Tell me more serious court or investigating authority to invoke Wikipedia? They did it to me. I mean, these people are annoyed with what we say, I understand. They may be disturbed because I'm the first to initiate an PSE procedure in here. It has bothered them, Mr President, Professor, that I have said on my programme - I repeat it here too - that anyone who burns the flags of another state to me is the worst mentality of another state, any flag, even if I disagree. I said it about the Greek flag that the Skopje burned in Australia. Fine 30,000 euros! The MP, the party president, preventive censorship? Tell me what I'm going to say and I won't tell the PSE, the employees I pay from my tax office? Because they're civil servants - don't be fooled - and they're slow-wages. Listen: They were disturbed to say that those who say Macedonians in Skopje are the descendants of genocide. And as a historian, Mr. Colleague, I know that those who left in 1949, like Gruevski from Florina, are brave, they were children of the paedophile, they packed them up and they took them there. Another $30,000! Soon, I will also tell you about the products, because what is really happening to my face is disgusting, it's a misery from a guy, really a guy who you put in here and who you yourself are saying today is incompetent, has his duties miserable. Listen to another political persecution: I'm being asked to apologize because I put the Skopje basketball players who were calling "Macedonia" behind and criticized. They're calling me to apologize to the PSE! What's going on is incredible. Because I said - and here I said, SYRIZA made an objection, and well he did, and you changed the law - that the commander of the NSA is ex-secourt-secretary-secretary, wasn't he? - They're calling me to apologize to the ER on Monday morning! Here in Parliament, it has become a whole thing. You changed the law because the man didn't have the prerequisites, he was a custodian of the Embassy, he wasn't an expert, he didn't have a CV, and they summon me to an apology. Listen to understand how disgraceful their behaviour is, because it's about misery. Before the EOF decides for me, it publishes a press release against me, adopting what the New Democracy websites say. What New Democracy's sites said did it popy paste, that is, they said I was guilty before I even apologize. It's not happening anywhere in the world. Without the fact that the EEO and the Association of Advertisers, who are responsible, have imposed a fine of EUR 730,000! Has Mr. Kutruman ever seen 730,000? Do you know what it means to be EUR 730,000 fine? Do you understand that? They're gonna shut down five hundred jobs and a thousand more perimeter perimeter from my business, two thousand unemployed workers, families. These guys because they are paid well to sit down, they think they can decide about the fates of the world without social sensitivity. It's civil and criminal, if you like, illegal to adopt opinions from a site as an independent authority and issue a press release. I didn't sue them or sue them, I'm never gonna do it, I'm honestly avoiding it, but that's not happening. Lawyer of the ESS searched the Minutes of the House at times of my speech to haunt wrongly interpreting a violation. I proved it to him, and he didn't even apologize to me. I'll go every week, every two days at the ERC, why don't these gentlemen have no other business to do and just do with me? They imposed a fine of EUR 30,000! Listen, Mr. Russopoulou. I'm on a channel guest and I'm telling the picturer, because I'm doing 30 years of TV, "do the camera more right to look better to show something." Because I said this, these gentlemen thought I was doing the show and imposed a fine of EUR 30,000. Christ and God bless you! I did this to And1 to Mr. Papadakis and to OPEN I did it once, does that mean that that's where I'm making emissions? It's incredible what's going on - I'm honestly saying it! - because I called the camera right. At a time when global channels imposed 30,000 euros on "TV MYTILINE" they imposed 30,000 euros. How will he survive, guys? The banner's 45,000 euros a year. The "TV KASTORIA" is 39,000 euros a year, and you impose a fine of 30,000 euros. It's like you're saying "closed". Is that the PSE? Do they work when they get sods and gobbles on the channels and tell you about the political pluralism that doesn't exist that doesn't call SYRIZA? Zapping, not even the pretexts that are Civic Opposition to summon them, as well as the JRC and Mera25 and we. Why? Slowly earners really! I will say it directly, and when Mr Kutrumans was in committee, I said it directly. We told him, "You don't work." "I can't, I don't have the tools." All right, quit. He does not have the emotiveness to resign, but every month he knows to be paid. This is our difference, evaluation of all of this. It's not unavoidable for the gentlemen. Well done, in the Committee on Transparency which invited him here for a lack of duty. I do not really want to believe that five unrelated to the market and work, appointed because they are appointed, eighteen television stations, because they are eighteen, Mr Russopoulou. About the fines: I don't care, it's not the fines to me, but I told the people that I'm gonna pay them, because I made the mistake. Listen to case law and law. I'm saying something on a live show, and I'm gonna pay for it. You're the ones who legislated wrong again. The PSE cannot punish the channel because the journalist or guest said a nonsense, a stupidity. To say stupid things that he didn't say stupid, because I told you that both the EOF and the Association of Advertisers had never said anything about the products. Will Chakaloto go, will he say something stupid to a channel - I apologise, Mr Chakalote - and will they call the channel and say to him 'Take a fine'? What do you think? Where have you seen this? What law is that? It's 730,000 euros. How people will pay for it. So, how do those people live there? Do they not understand that there is a crisis, that there is a coronary, that the market does not work, do they not have revenue? Don't they get it? It's unprecedented. Listen to this: They made a decision in a month. Eighteen decisions were made in a month, when for other decisions seven months, eight months, one year. So, some invisible hand tries in every way to hunt the Greek Solution. Otherwise it is not justified, as is the continued presence of the tax on my businesses. Every month, I've got the I.D. weird. They found nothing, thank God, I declare it all, but every month I have the tax to stop my company's operation for a whole day and control it? Yes, Mr. Stakoura, why aren't you looking for it? Every month at my company! For what? Let them come, no problem, but one day I don't work because the employees come out, sit out and check in. Tell me why these coincidences, so I can figure it out. I've stated everything, Mr. Stakoura, look to see how much tax I paid last year, what income I have declared, and you'll understand what I mean. But, frankly, all this, I would say, creates a strange concept that I did not expect from the New Democracy, the new Prime Minister, the reformist, the new concept, not the old-fashioned one that I "power and do what I like". The phenomena, unfortunately, have disappointed me. What are the members of the PSE? They are all of the same ideological position, Mr Russell and their problem! Not of the New Democracy, I say of the same. Candidate with Kamine or one lady, candidate with DMAR. The other one's an intellectual. The intellectual will check on me. He's an intellectual writer. The other journalist in "ELETEROTYPIA" and his views and president of the OAS are known. Listen to qualities! The other director at Mr. Simitis's political office. Who did you put in the ER, guys? Will PASOK rule again? Everywhere PASOK, but everywhere? Listen to me, I understand any disagreement. But apologise to an appointed employee why did I say something about illegal immigrants? I was summoned for invoking a statement by the Minister of Public Order that among illegal immigrants, refugees, Immigrants, have come to Greece. The Minister said so here. I said it on the show, and I'm being summoned for 50 grand fines for incitement to hate. But are we in good shape? Preventive criticism and, if you like, censorship with the Member of the Greek Parliament will do the PSE? So this gentleman has made a postgraduate programme on "Migration flows and Assimilation". He's an economist. These people are members of the PSE and these people will control me, appointed by the Greek Parliament. The Greek people will control me, you will control me if I do something illegal and justice, yes, but not the appointed ones. And I'll say something because time is pushing too. Listen a little, it is very important for me that some people understand that politics is arguments. I really ask: which serious person here would have done a case-file - that's what the PSE is called - invoking Wikipedia? Lawyer of the PSE invoked Wikipedia. And that's what I'll pay 50 grand with? I was laughing, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that's incredible. And I have to go to S.T. Now, to pay $10,000 paradox, to have the good lawyer, to say again that I'm innocent. Yes, but eighteen cases of ten thousand are 180,000 euros. These gentlemen don't have the money anytime, but as civil servants, slow-wages, slow-wage PSEs. And can I tell you something? If they had pressed the channels to present all parties pluralally and democratically, I might not be making any noise at all, to say, "Let it, my child, go to justice." But to fade all the political parties, not to leave SYRIZA on the channels, not to leave Mera25, not to leave the KKE, not to go out the Greek Solution, not to go out either of us and just to go out the New Democracy and the PSE to be the lead, the supervising authority and not to have a single sanction and chasing me. God doesn't want it, guys. I'm telling you this sincerely, because it's really unfair! Now listen, eighteen channels that will be closed by thirty-three workers are five hundred forty people. Around my companies operate five to six businesses, a thousand more people. Thousands of five hundred families, therefore, because Mr. Koutrumanos and his company, these strange guys, want to close the channels, will be unemployed. People can't pay the money unless I pay it. Do you understand what I'm saying to you? Is that a sensitivity? They don't care about the world. They took the chair, they're sitting in the office, and they don't care about the world. And I ask you: how am I to defend myself if I have preventive censorship while invoking the Minister's statement - not Mr Staikora - Mr Chrysochoidis and I have to pay 50 grand fines to the PSE? Tell me, gentlemen, you guys. I have invoked a statement by the Minister of Public Order that there are jihadists among illegal immigrants. How am I supposed to apologize? If I had the EOF on the products I presented, hadn't told me anything about the ERR saying it was illegal? What right? You tell me. That is why I tell you that if there is no invisible principle, they are incompetent and carry out their duties poorly, and they must be dismantled immediately. Other people who know the market, and they know the TV. I'd like to say something. On a pan-Hellenic channel of five million viewers, a fine of 30,000 euros. On a channel, "TV CASTORIA", 30,000 the fine for a offense that is not a channel’s offense. I mean, Mr. Rousopoulos, Mr. Velopoulos, Mr. Lebanese, he's going to say something on the channel, something illegal, something bad, and he'll pay for it. The congressman speaks. Do they understand that in the PSE? The congressman cannot be afraid. Then the channels will never call us. If Mr. Chakalotos says anything that bothers and makes him a fine of 200 thousand canal, they'll never call him again? Is that how our democracy will work? Is that how we can work? Listen, you did an ERR twenty years ago, I get it. This story needs to be changed. Change the function of the ERR. And after dealing with my own business and what I said, while the EOF never meddled, the Prime Minister of the country goes out and says "I would dare say that the mask is the vaccine up to the vaccine". The PSE should take all channels because this is misinformation and impose fines. He didn't impose any fines. If I said so, however, I would pay EUR 50 000, EUR 50 000, EUR 50 000, EUR twenty-five, i.e. EUR 1 million. Is that called a democracy? Is that what this is called ERR? Is that really what I'm saying, a serious policy? No, ladies and gentlemen, you're wrong. We need to change the PSE. We need to improve. I'm not saying we should abolish it. This cannot be the case for the House to function, it really can't. It is unfair that a parliamentary party, a party which has a remarkable presence with arguments and suggestions, without shouting, without almonds, with disagreements, is wrong. We even vote for what SYRIZA brings, if it is for the good of the nation and for my country. Same as the JRC. Anything you bring us, as long as it's good for Greece. Because we first say Greece and the Greeks. We may disagree on many things, but the essence and the quintourism of democracy are libertarianism. The quintusia of the House is free choice. No Kutruman can sneeze us and no other group of archipelagos, unpaid ERR employees, perfection and dash. Let's go to the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to escalate for Turkey because the times are bad. I won't say anything strange. But I will say that unfortunately the New Democracy is violating the Constitution and the laws of the state. There's a law, Law 4001/2011. In Article 156, it states: ‘underwater areas shall mean the seabed and the ground of inland waters, the kayalitis zone, the continental shelf and the Exclusive Economic Zone (registered) up to the distance of 200 nm. from the baselines from which the gynaecological zone range is measured.’; I mean, there's a law, I've got it here, and I'll testify to it in the Minutes. It's a 2011 law. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Stenography and Practices of the Parliament.]] I cannot understand why your ministers today are talking about six nautical miles, twelve nautical miles, five and a half nautical miles, eight nautical miles. And because we are a serious party and because we are at risk from the Soviet, militant, fascist, Nazi Turkey, I do not want to escalate, but I will make five proposals. I told the Prime Minister, and I'm saying it again now. I told him to go get the free Rafale. He took it. We now have a hundred Black Hawk in Japan, they're withdrawing them. I informed the Greek Prime Minister. He said he'll see it. I also propose to him the Super Cobra that the American Marines withdraw, are helicopters. We can go and pick these up and drop them, it's free, we won't pay anything. We're gonna get a hundred, we're gonna have eighty, and the rest will be for a bitch - the Admiral knows - for spare parts. There are certain systems that we can take. We can take because we have a problem with Turkish drones, Bayraktar, the Russian electronic war system, Krasukha. Lavrov's coming here. It's cheap. What's that doing? He fired nine drones Turkish Bayraktar in Armenia. He's an expert who confuses their software and takes them down. You don't have to just send shots. I mean, there are. I say that for one reason alone, to be recorded here because I want the Prime Minister to hear. This afternoon, he'll have a coronary order from what I've learned. I'd like to hear him. Why? For quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes actions from words are far too far away. I told you a lot about Turkey, I told you about an EOZ proclamation which is a unilateral energy. I told you that we should understand that the Turks will not stop at twelve nautical miles, they will enter seven, six, eight nautical miles. I said and suggested that we make a council of political leaders with a commitment to get out all silent and only the Prime Minister should speak to show united. That's not what you did either. I have given you concrete proposals on how to prevent Turkish provocation. There is no European Union. Already the "FORD" VOLKSWAGEN is making new factories in Turkey. Don't mock the world, they'll never help us. Now, maybe Russia needs us for its own interests and Lavrov comes in. Maybe this way we can get something if we move smartly. Whoever is in favour of Greek interests we must go along with. This is the reality without cries and algae. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the government is making a great mistake. The truth? It worked in March. Nobody's questioning it. The truth? That they had a huge pandemic. Nobody's questioning it. What I doubt, however, is your intention to impose the law and order in every direction. From March to today we had some eighteen protest gatherings. I'm not going to tell you about the court of appeal because it's up to you. Justice spoke, and good for her, and good for her, and the story is over. We're done, we're closed, we're back page, Nazism's gone, the country's over. The decision is made. Justice is not affected by anything I want to believe, the Nazis made their decision. But we're actually going. Fifteen illegal gatherings and not a single arrest. They were all sorry for each other. The coronary is transmitted. Not even a single arrest. The only thing that the government wants to conceive - and unfortunately I say it - is once again the Greek diner in the focus, again the Greek man who will not parade, again the Greek man who will go to church, the Greek man who will relay. Why is New Democracy doing this? Explain why. Let me tell you the gatherings: On March 14th, a protest in the center of Mytilini: workers in NGOs, Antarsya, some residents. On 21 March, Constitution: ERIC - Constantine. Constantine again. He sued me, too, to know. I'm collecting lawsuits. On 27 May 2020, the course of illegal immigrants in Porto Heli. On 3 June 2020, the murder of Floyd, the Athens Centre. All these are marches, gatherings of thousands of people. On July 9, public meetings. Strait "bird", September 11, Kara Tepe. On 11 September 2020, the progress of the NGO and the others in Moria, Athens. 12 September, Moria, Athens: the wrong path. In other words, all these were marches the virus is transmitted. Not even a arrest! This is where political leaders went outside the courtroom, guys. Where is political correctness? Because he speaks of populism, Mr New Democracy's colleague. If it's not populism and specula to send the head of your office out of the courtroom, what is it? And what did we say? Justice will speak. No politician's presence outside the courtroom, because this can be used by fascists-nazis at the next stage. Because the seriousness of this went ahead. Sadly, however, populism and specula run out of many and I return this story. And I want to ask a question - to close here - to the Minister of Health: did we finally get the vaccines? Do the ministers know? Mr. Georgiadis, you know from the Ministry of Health. Mr. Kikilis took the vaccines, the three hundred thousand he says, for December? You don't know. It's okay. You can't know everything. You know everything, but not everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u104	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u105	You'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u106	He'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u107	I don't need an attorney, sir. I hear good. My age is younger than yours. I'm actually going. So, I say, we've been dead today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u108	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u109	For this vaccine, we had a dead one. Let's be a little stubborn and careful. Don't do experiments with the Greeks. We had dead - I repeat - from this story. And because the President is in a hurry and is right, I would like to submit to the Minutes all the scientific studies. When I say 'all', I mean all: Mr Avramidis, Mr Gaki, the American Centre for the Control and Prevention of Diseases for Coronnel, the COVID -19 survey by England by teachers, Spantidis, Drossos, Barsum, Bugea from the Aeginite, also by Anne Loving, Lisa Wolf. What do they all say? And I'll testify to the Minutes. They say that with the Divine Society it is not the coronary - scientists - after many years of research. Here are all the studies. I'm not saying what I think. It's a matter of faith. I say what science says, that with the Divine Society for reasons specific that scientists analyse in here, not me - I will put it in the Minutes for anyone who wants to read it - the coronary is not transmitted with the Divine Society. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm saying this because you're taking out every pulmonary, infectious, ignorant of contagious diseases into his or her opinion. Stop it. Cut them off, because every limit has been exceeded, these gentlemen are terrorizing the world. And if we finally want to give solutions, let's listen to the real scientists. A solution can be given to the coronary. I'm afraid a new lockdown will be announced this afternoon. The economy's over, it's over. Come on, we're done. If it becomes new lockdown, we're finished as a country financially. That's it. End-of-end securities. The economy is over, Greece is over, the Greeks are over. Long live poverty. It has no longer been left to the Greek, unfortunately, because it has been permanently and irrevocably bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u110	I will now give the Minister of Finance the floor for the amendments, but in the meantime, until the seat is ready, I am telling the House that the Communist Party of Greece in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the House has tabled a request for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance 'Regulatory of debts and the provision of a second chance'. Minister, you're going to talk about the amendments, not about your main speech, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u112	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let us return a little to the debate we have today, and I would like to put myself here for three ministerial amendments. I begin with the number 528/86, which establishes the appropriate organisational framework for the effective use of the resources of the Recovery and Stability Fund. The Recovery and Stability Fund was added to Europe's arsenal after the agreement reached in July at the European Union Summit. It was a very advantageous agreement for our country. This is because the Greek economy is expected to benefit from approximately EUR 32 billion by 2026, including EUR 19.3 billion for grants and EUR 12.7 billion for loans with favourable interest and terms. I would stress that our country, based on the estimates that have so far been made, takes the first place among the Eurozone countries as regards the part, on the grant side. With this in mind, the great challenge we have before us is to make best use of these resources in conjunction with the domestic instruments that will lead the economy towards a new productive and developmental model. The government has shown itself to have a plan, vision, determination and methodicity in order to achieve these goals. The current amendment also forms part of this framework. In particular, it is recommended to the Ministry of Finance Special Coordination of the Recovery Fund. The task of the Special Service is to coordinate the drafting of the National Recovery Plan, as well as to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the programmes and projects to be financed through resources from the Recovery Fund to be made available to Greece. This service - I stress - is automatically abolished on 31 March 2027. Appointed commander as Head of that Special Service. Its term of office shall be three years and may be renewed by a similar decision until the date of abolition of the special service. He shall receive the remuneration of the Secretary-General and upon taking up his duties he shall sign a performance contract setting out qualitative and quantitative objectives. The organisational structure of the special service, consisting of three directorates and seven departments, is also defined. They shall be constituted at the Special Service for forty staff, who shall at least half be covered by the secondment of officials or officials of private law for an indefinite period engaged in bodies of general government. I repeat here: The positions are being abolished on 31 March 2027. In conclusion, this amendment establishes the appropriate organisational structures and foundations for the optimal use of the resources of the Recovery and Stability Fund, which will make a significant contribution to achieving a dynamic recovery and strong, sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. With our second amendment No 530/88 we are implementing a number of our commitments: Firstly, there are significant additional tax reductions for households, mainly for the middle class. In particular, as the Prime Minister had announced from Thessaloniki, we are moving towards abolishing the solidarity levy in 2021 on incomes derived from private economic activity. Also, we incorporate in the reduced rate of 13% and art objects, collections and antiquities, as well as the introduction and delivery of works of artistic value. Finally, an extension of the benefit of non-registration of securities in economic behaviour data records is granted to the tourist industry's enterprises affected by the health crisis. For the claims arising from such securities, the issue of a payment order, as well as any measures of a kind or enforcement order, shall be suspended until the time limits laid down in the provisions. Secondly, we are creating a new framework for tax debt regulation, whereby the state is inclined to help households and businesses by providing very important facilities to meet their obligations. In particular, three interventions are implemented. First intervention: a new regulation is being introduced, which concerns all natural and legal persons affected by the coronary pandemic. It enables them to include all their regulated debts to the tax administration created in the period March - June 2020 on particularly favourable terms. These suspended debts until 30 April 2021 can be adjusted from May 2021 in twelve interest-free instalments or twenty-four instalments at an extremely low rate of 2.5%. But also to taxpayers affected by the pandemic who had regulated their debts and were suspended until 30 April 2021 for the March - June 2020 instalments, will be supported, will be added as of May 2021 and then at the end of the instalments of the original arrangement, whichever is, twenty-four, forty-eight, a hundred-eight. Second intervention: the existing regulation for debtors affected by the pandemic is revived, they have not been able to pay the doses of their regulation and have lost it - look - in March - October 2020. This forecast, as you can see, is also improved in relation to what we announced three weeks ago, as the October doses were included. These debtors can now continue to pay the dose normally as from November 2020. The setting revives with all its benefits, as unpaid doses will be added as supernumerable again after the last dose. Furthermore, those who have lost their regulation after 1 June 2019 and who have not been given the opportunity to re-establish their debts may be included in the fixed arrangement of the twenty-four and forty-eight instalments, as long as specific criteria of income and assets are met. This will provide support to those who really need it, while ensuring the necessary tax compliance. And third intervention: an arrangement of a hundred and twenty instalments with a staggered schedule of surcharges and late payment interest for the repayment of certain debts to the tax authorities on loans granted with the guarantee of the Greek State or the guarantee of the Greek Development Bank or the Small and Small Business Guarantee Fund and which had become due by credit institutions and credit institutions until 7 October 2019. In this way we provide a sustainable solution to an existing problem of loan debtors guaranteeing the Greek public, providing them a real relief. With these interventions, the Government has once again demonstrated its continued readiness and taking the appropriate steps to ensure that the financial impact of the health crisis on households and businesses is as low as possible. There are also some other provisions in this amendment. By 29 January 2021, the suspension of the examination of objections against the census data by the Objections Committees shall be extended. There was a matter from all the wings and from fellow Members. This extension is granted to enable citizens to obtain the necessary documents to support their rights before committees. It shall be extended until 30 November 2020 to convene the regular general meeting of all civil cooperatives, including cooperative banks, by reason of measures to limit and prohibit the collection of persons. The possibility is provided by a decision of the Bank of Greece, with the agreement of the Systemic Stability Board, to transfer assets, deposits and contractual relations of a credit institution under special liquidation to a credit institution. This provision is adopted in order to ensure the protection of deposits following the incorporation of the relevant European directive of the BRD and to determine how the Permanent Greek Representation - ACE - to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development - OECD - is managed at the time of the first implementation of ACE's membership of the OECD to the Ministry of Finance, as has been done very recently. The purpose of the arrangement is to ensure that the Office of the Permanent Representative operates effectively. Finally, Amendment No 529/87 introduces a special scheme for aid to companies in the shipping sector by concluding public service contracts for rent by the end of the year for the service of specific services and since there is still a direct risk of the spread of the coronary. The purpose of this amendment is to support the sector seriously affected by the health crisis, to ensure the social cohesion of the country by maintaining adequate coastline coverage of island areas and the recovery of the coastline for the transport of passengers and goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you can tell us about the parliamentary amendments - in view of the fact that you may leave - if you are accepting MEPs, so that the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives know as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u115	No parliamentary amendment will be accepted. And on this occasion you remind me of something: I have the second set of legislative improvements. I think there won't be any more. We essentially incorporate small legislative interventions, mainly from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, whose report was submitted very late last night. They're marginal verbal differences, actually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u116	Good. It will talk about the amendments and the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u117	I will make my speech, and I will need seven, eight minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u118	Good. And then I will give the floor to Mr Tsakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u119	Would you like, Mr. Parliamentary, to precede? Are you in a hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u120	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. We had a lot of discussions, a lot of disagreements in committee about what this bill does, what it doesn't. I think - to get into a class - that it is very important to understand that no one is saying that there should be no real estate market - I think that neither the JRC is saying that everyone should be social housing and that there should be no real estate market - but no one is saying that there are no special conditions or special groups where market rules should be applied. So the conversation should be where you put the pole between it. In order to do so, however, what I said in committee - and Members of the New Democracy have been misunderstood and the Minister - there must be an honesty and listen to the other and describe what the other one says in the most correct way. If a former Minister says that he will of course slowly return the auctions, it is important to say how many auctions were made in SYRIZA and how many auctions were made in the year and a half you are running. And it is all the more important that you refer to the whole speech, where in all my speech I say that we are not in normal circumstances, even if we need liberation to be gradually and for some groups it can never be, because we are in these particular circumstances. And there can be a debate on where we put the plateau, but not systematically twisting what someone says that is different from you. I will not only make a comment again if the first home was abolished on SYRIZA. The arguments have been heard. I think that with what I have tabled and tabled, our rapporteur, anyone who is trustworthy knows that we have never committed to abolishing it. After all - if we had abolished it, why did the institutions make you commit twice to abolishing a provision that you said had already been abolished? Why did you have to sign twice that you're going to abolish something that was already abolished? I don't get it, but that's not the sovereign. So let's have a serious conversation. Do we have special conditions right now? Do we have an economy that passed the 2009 economic crisis, our debt crisis and now the COVID crisis? Are these circumstances a little strange? So we can question whether there was any reason for the bankruptcy, that this isn't the right timing? I asked a question and I didn't get an answer. This bill is your choice, or is it the troika's enforcement? I'll make the question a little lighter. Timing this bill, because I think the circumstances are special - is it your choice? Do you think that, at the moment, it is what the Greek economy needs or - as we say - that because of COVID and because of the crisis that is not only Greek, but globally, the balance between those who fear strategic poor payers and those who say that new liquidity problems are going to be created, that is to say, that at the moment there will be too many people - who are not bad payers - who have a problem because they have not been paid for them and have not been paid for by someone else? And you understand what I mean when I talk about the problem of liquidity. Secondly, we have a forecast for vulnerable groups. Will these vulnerable groups be increased or reduced due to the economic crisis? And at a time when - I imagine - most of you and most of you think will increase, is it possible to have the assimilation of natural persons with legal persons? Where does that need come from now? And to tell you the truth, I think I'm trying to listen to my opponents with care - I didn't hear an argument about the need to put them in the same bill. Even for tactical and political tactics, I'd do it in a different bill. I really don't have an answer. Why is it important to treat them in the same way in the same bill? And perhaps more importantly, did the Secretary-General of the JRC and our own speakers and other parties - really the EUR 7,000 is the limit to being vulnerable to this society? Do you really think the 7,000 are a significant number to judge who is vulnerable? I think that if you consider all these arguments, it is very problematic that this bill is also in Timing, as well as in content. And now we go to the beginning, in the philosophy of this bill, which Mrs Ahtsoglou emphasized very much. He told you an argument that is very important to discuss. It says that the way neoliberals very often display their disagreements with their opponents is that neoliberals are with the least state and that others are prisoners and want more state. And he told you this was a mistake. And it's wrong for at least two reasons. The first is that the free market is not a natural phenomenon. It's not the default, to use a word from the computers. He wants a lot of work. Antonio Gramsey has pointed this out with great attention to his notes from prison. Laissez-faire wants laws, wants state, wants enforcement. And that's what you do with this bill, you bring it up. It is not a natural situation in the world that we must let it work. There is also a second reason why the distinction'more State' or 'less State' is not correct. Because I am absolutely certain that your policy is not just to let the weak fall. Have they said - I don't know, by mistake? - and your cops ministers, zombie companies, and Mr. Pissaridis says so almost openly that he needs a clean-up. Your policy will not only be for weak companies to fall, it will also be for strong businesses to benefit and - a little worse - not all the powerful ones. Because if something has emerged in the fifteen months of your own governance it is that the final state can incorporate the entire tradition of the Greek state since 1829, that is, the customer state. And that's what's gonna happen. And the fact that you are bringing us an amendment to a special address that will have a commander does not detract from our concern that you will also have this second function, that your intervention will not only allow the weak to fall, but you will have a direct relationship with the possible ones. One of the reasons is that because of bureaucracy - which you will not be able to deal with - you will give direct jobs to large groups. This will be the way to speed up the Recovery Fund. In other words, the logic of this bill - which says it clearly - is not my fault or Mrs Ahtsoglou's - is the liquidation. It says so openly. It does not hide it, to say that we have another balance here, that some companies that are not viable will go to liquidation, but are many other companies that are viable and therefore we want restructuring and to help them, especially in a country that has lost a large part of its income before our own government. At least that, Mr Stakoura, you will not question it. I think that the progressive powers and the JRC and Mera25 and we, and perhaps the Change Movement, must show that there is another non-liquidisation-based path, which highlights the problem of large companies with so many people working in them, who are at some age, who are not easy to get back to work if we go to liquidation. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] There is another - and I should also like to know from the JRC - a path that does not assume what the Secretary-General says, that all social battles are a zero sum, that when one side wins, the other loses. Because the history of even capitalism has shown that restructuring can be carried out with a cost sharing between creditors and taxpayers who are also promoted for the economy. We could not have what we have, such as the social state, rights, this kind of economy, with all the inequalities - which is why we need to fight again from the outset - if all the games, all the battles were a zero sum. It is therefore enormously important that the criticism we make in this bill should be the start of a process that the progressive forces show, that there is an economy that can be restructured, that we can help businesses to restructure in a fairer, more developmental way. If we do not do that, we do not give hope to anyone, and that will cost us all. Why can't we just say that this is where this case ends? It is up to us to raise it in society that this strategy of the government, on the one hand, poverty, liquidity, on the other hand jobs for our own people, is an end. He doesn't drive anywhere, and there's another road.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. Before entering the list of speakers, he had asked for the floor for three, four minutes to be placed on an article in the bill, Mr Georgiadis. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform the House of the decision of the Conference of Presidents on the draft bill. The bill, with those speakers and naturally respecting the limits of the sitting time, will continue tomorrow after the debate on the topical and urgent questions. As far as today's sitting is concerned, we will probably go by twelve, perhaps a little earlier, if we see that the list goes ahead and a few fellow Members will be left for tomorrow's sitting. That's all so far. We will also see in the course of the process how it develops and accordingly come to an agreement again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u124	How many minutes will speakers have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u125	You did right, and you told me. Since it had just been decided for five minutes, I would suggest that they become six minutes ahead of the seventh. To agree on this, to increase it and see and go along.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u126	So tomorrow will the roll-call vote go?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u127	Of course, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u128	Oh, you didn't say that. It's a different thing than what we knew.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u129	Look, in order to start the roll-call vote, the list of speakers must be finished, or the speeches must be finished. That's the proper beginning. In any case, it has been clarified and understood. The denomination, as you said, will go tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u131	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, Mr Colleague, there is a great debate today, without any voices. I miss yesterday's compliment you made me, but I will insist that we speak honestly, honestly and calmly. It's not enough honesty, it's both honesty and coolness. You said about the auctions. Auctions have always been made. You said - I think the Chief of Officer Anti-Population will also come - that as long as there is SYRIZA auctions do not take place in Greece, unless they do the auctioning in a foreign country, they will have problems implementing them in Greece. And I see here in the evaluations of the institutions in November 2018 and February 2019 by-catches of the institutions about the speed with which the auctions were made in Greece. What auctions? The electronic auctions. Therefore, as Mr Tsakalotos asked me, we really need to be honest, since November 2017, and for eighteen months on SYRIZA twenty-five thousand sixty-seven and seventy-two electronic auctions and nineteen months on New Democracy have become nineteen thousand seventy-eight auctions. That is the first comment. Secondly, Mr Tsakalotos asked me why twice the institutions pushed me, forced us as government, to extend. We're talking about other issues. The institutions have never pressed to protect the first residence, for the very simple reason that it had been abolished. That's over. If this is disputed, the bodies, both the assembly of the lawyers and the consumer association, said that there had been no first residence protection horizontally since February 2019 and each other. To agree, and I will give the Minutes two laws, that protection of first residence does not exist since February 2019. What happened next? Then SYRIZA came in and made a first home protection programme that you were saying here - I will submit everything in the Minutes later - that it will be for a hundred and fifty thousand citizens and that expired at the end of the year. We came to the government and said: 'Give an extension'. This is the first conflict. And then what were we talking about? "Give a second extension", but not to protect the first residence – this was over from February 2019 -- but in the shape that protected a piece of society, only those who were red by the end of 2018 and with specific assets and income criteria. What was the result? Seven thousand entered the platform from a potential perimeter, said by Mr. Drasakis here, I have it in the Minutes, a hundred and fifty thousand citizens. So, if we are to be precise, what the present Government has ensured is to extend the Temporary Framework for twice as much as you have said for four months and another four months, so that more citizens can enter, to build the 'GEOFRA' programme which is being implemented since 1 August and to prepare the draft law that will be implemented. Another time you legislate - to answer that question too - and other when you implement it. You have to legislate. And what should we legislate? Just as you have committed yourself. What did we commit? In the explanatory memorandum annexed to the new regime legislation, the European institutions welcome the Greek authorities' commitment to take action to unify the laws on bankruptcy and debt restructuring. So, this holistic approach that we are bringing with the draft law you signed it with the institutions to bring it you. So there was already the willingness of your side to move in that direction. Fourthly, you say that they are all against the bill. You have expected - you have expected me - even the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. I told the committee - and I have all the minutes - that too many bodies, those for whom the rapporteur is allegedly being cut, ordinary citizens, consumers, borrowers, have spoken positively about the bill. They said that the bill is coming to speed up procedures so that someone would not stay locked while he should have gone bankrupt. Hatzitheodosiou, Chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Athens Chamber of Commerce. You want to go to the Trade Federation? "We are dealing with the process of rescheduling debts. We are in favour of the automated process. We have a positive attitude to the interest subsidy procedure, and in any case we think it is very important that the rent is subsidised." We don't say it, but the traders and entrepreneurship. Do you want to go to the protection of borrowers of citizens? "It is therefore coming to be voted on at an appropriate time-frame." It responds directly to your argument, ladies and gentlemen. But be honest. Were they dithrambic? Oh, no. They expressed concerns and objections and came to heal many of them through legal remarks, which we have made today in two stages. So I am not looking at a situation, but I think I have an objective situation. Are there debtors who rescue their first residence without paying? Answer: No. All relevant laws since 2010 and after the protection of first residence are provided because the debtor pays the debt relating to his first residence. And if we're honest, any debtor who doesn't pay his debt loses his fortune. And let's see how the laws evolved: In 2010, the original Katseli law, Law 3869: The debtor was called upon to pay 80% of the objective value of the first residence. In 2016, in the revised Katseli Act, the debtor is required to pay 100% of the objective value of the first residence. In 2018, in the revised Katseli Act, the debtor is required to pay 100% of the commercial value of the first home. And we arrive in 2019, in the law we are discussing, the citizen, the debtor is asked to pay 120% of the commercial value of the first home. So, with this it is confirmed that the debtor had to pay to save his first residence in whatever shape he existed. You asked: "Why are you going to go bankrupt for the first time?" Katselis was the first law in the country - Mr Buga said so before - which attempted to deal with the insolvency of natural persons and introduced the bankruptcy of natural persons. According to the law, the debtor loses his or her entire property, except for his or her first residence in limited cases of protection and pays for three years anything that can, according to the ability to repay, for his or her debts, while in case he protects his or her first residence, payments continue for a long time. It was said that the Act of Katseli did not go bankrupt with the debtors. But after they lost all their property, what did he do to them? Apparently, he went bankrupt. In 2019 - and we have discussed this with the SYRIZA rapporteur, I wonder why she has a different approach - the European Commission voted for European Directive 1023, which allows natural persons to go bankrupt too. And it concludes by saying in paragraph 21 that 'the Member States are recommended to start applying the provisions on debt relief and on consumers as soon as possible', i.e. to natural persons. Why? To give them the opportunity to erase their debts. I'm going to report my last observation. You ask: Why are you going to go bankrupt? Because the purpose of the bill is liquidation. But the opposite is the purpose of the bill. The purpose of the bill is to avoid bankruptcy. That is why it contains two axes, prevention by early warning and dealing with the out-of-court settlement mechanism. Since a debtor regulates all of his debts in up to two hundred forty instalments, he saves his entire property. However, if a debtor fails to repay his debts, even by favourable regulation in twenty years, then in practice he has gone bankrupt. In this case, the law provides for the discharge of all debts so that it receives a second chance. Therefore, the law aims to enable the debtor to find a definitive and sustainable solution for his or her debts so that they will not be transferred to the next generations, which have so far led to the renunciation of his or her heritage. I shall make one final suggestion, Mr President. Why are we talking about this here today? You're right. It is a very serious problem that private debt is in Greece, but, as you said at the outset, we must be honest - and I have added - and, frankly, we must be honest. On October 31, 2015, you said from this Step: "Only to say that at the moment is the recapitalisation, along with the treatment of red loans. The recapitalisation is under way today. Within the second series of prerequisites, we will have the solution for red loans. So at the end of the year, the recapitalisation of banks and red loans will be completed at the end of 2015.’ We are in 2020 and private debt remains very high and we need to solve it seriously, responsibly, bold and honest. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u133	Good. We shall now give the floor to Mr Georgiadis for five minutes, with a relative tolerance, and then we shall proceed to the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Tsakkatou, I believe that it is not possible after this term of office that you have been successful, I will say at some point that you have made a decisive contribution to the power of SYRIZA, implementing the programme and maintaining the stability of the country for a long time - to take up a criticism of this kind of bill, namely the so-called neoliberals of New Democracy and the supposedly social ones you are. I read from 21-12-2017: "Government will fall if you do not vote on the persecutions for auctions". And you say immediately below: "The obligation to pay their debts to the banks is a firm position of the Government and of course the Minister of Finance. In this context, the Government...’, etc., etc. Listen, we don't have a Alzheimer's team!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u135	You didn't read what I said to Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u136	I shall now refer to that. We haven't had a Alzheimer's team in the country. You were a government when you voted for the law to prosecute Panagiotis Lafazanis because he reacted to the auctions. You made the law and sent your former partner and former Minister Panagiotis Lafazanis to court and is still being tried, as is Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou who you voted for President of Parliament. So, weepy type of opposition you can no longer make. That's what it used to be. Now it's over. Now, if you want to have a conversation, it'll be right. So let us talk about what this bill does, and let us look more at the Ministry of Development that is of greater interest. When Mr Papadimitriou, Minister of SYRIZA to the government of Alexis Tsipras, had passed the law on the extrajudicial compromise as the Minister of Development at the time of the Tsipra government, we were in this House, ladies and gentlemen, where SYRIZA's colleagues told us that the extrajudicial compromise of SYRIZA would provide a solution to the private debt in Greece. In fact, Mr Papadimitriou - I remember it, because I was a parliamentary representative on that day - was going to help four hundred thousand households and businesses. At that time, the main criticism of the New Democracy that voted for the bill - and I will say the phrase that I said on that day in the House - was that as you had made this bill, it was not going to help anyone in practice, because it was a very hard bureaucratic process that actually prevented anyone using this bill. I remember saying, explaining why we are voting for 'Even though one good - one! - we will vote for it, but we tell you that it will be a failure." And then, Mr. Papadimitriou told us that in the first year they would have arranged fifty thousand. Today we are in fifth year. Do you know how many people have arranged by SYRIZA's law of extrajudicial compromise? They have arranged a thousand nine hundred eighty in five years, instead of fifty thousand in the first year! So we should now have a nice and civilised debate on what is what went wrong with your law - and I must tell you that you had a good intention - and finally the question of private debt was not settled and what you said was good intentions in your bill, instead of having this debate. You should come and tell us whether or not you disagree with, in my opinion, a revolutionary arrangement that we bring to this bill. What is the revolution of this bill? The revolution is that the extrajudicial compromise will be made automatically. It will not be possible in all that process to go, to report, to get sustainability, to agree creditors, to go back five times to the accountant, twenty-five times to the lawyer, but by putting their incomes through the electronic platform and their data, we will press the "enter" and the algorithm will make out what "cut" has to have and what doses they have to pay and move their lives if they can pay. What is your disagreement on this? Did one of SYRIZA say a disagreement about that? Because I've been here all this time since this morning and I haven't heard any of it. I've only heard a praiseworthy mention of Mr. Tsakalotou to Mr. Koutsuba. Here's a problem. I understand the JRC. People are communists. They disagree and they do well. They're Communists. In the system they believe there are no auctions, there are no bank debts, but there is a central government planning. But you may imagine that you are communists, but you have ruled by the laws of Europe which are not communist and the memorandum that was nothing but communist. So you can't tell us the same thing again. Yeah, so in capitalism there are auctions, and the first ones who know it are Chakalotos and SYRIZA and Tsipras who voted for it. That's the answer. So this bill, which Mr Stavros and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis are voting today, is a bill that will improve the lives of people with great debts? I will tell you something and I will now address the majority Members. Be extremely proud and happy of the bill we are voting on today. In my own office, since the first day that it was announced that we will vote for such a bill - Mr Kourmonisissis, Secretary-General knows it - I have unstoppable daily calls from citizens who fight when the bill will enter into force. Because it's their only real opportunity to get rid of debts that's been chasing them for a lifetime. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, has a very strong social character. It is not a bill that is passed to do the grace of the troika and the institutions. It is a bill that should have existed for many years in Greece to help people get a real second chance and be able to take their lives forward. This bill and the predictions that it includes, give both businesses and natural persons the opportunity really, leaving behind debts that they would never be able to regulate, turn page and have a second chance in their lives. This is very important, it is a great offer and you are very proud to vote for it. I would just like to say three words, and I am closing down on the direct issues of the Ministry of Development in the bill. As regards the article on insurance companies, Article 268 and health insurance, I think we have said it and this morning, I have not heard any speaker make any comment. Two were the main objections to the article, their fear that insurance contracts that have been locked up or certain growth rates would also be taken into account. We have quite rightly written that it is not about these contracts so that there is no misunderstanding. So all Mrs Ahtsioglou's phrase about a gift to insurance, I think it makes no sense to repeat it again. The second concern raised by the Scientific Committee of Parliament was whether there would be transparent and distinct criteria for how this level of increase would be achieved, i.e. how the level of this increase, of the annual increase, will be determined. This has been cured by the change in the Ministerial Decision that we provided for in the draft law in the adoption of a Presidential Decree, that is to say, a regulatory act which will have the prior control of the Council of State that precisely determines the transparency, objectivity and the amount of this indicator. So in this way I think the second concern - good cause to say, I'm not talking about those who are making opposition to do opposition - has been healed. In conclusion, I would say that the bill does exist, it was mentioned by the Minister of Finance, and the arrangement in a hundred and twenty instalments of the loans of the old TEMPUS. I say this because this is a major wound to the trading world. I would remind you that in 2008-2009 hundreds of thousands of businesses then received loan aid through the then TEMPUS with the guarantee of the Greek State. Many of these loans, most of them, have not been repaid. The bond related to the guarantee fell in 2016, became due, the guarantees were paid to the banks and this money is gradually charged to the companies that had received the loan of the TEMPUS at the time. With the regulation we are bringing today, we are introducing a favourable debt arrangement in a hundred and twenty instalments, with increases and interest cuts depending on the amount of instalments, as we have done last year's high regulation. To those who have been charged with this old debt in space - out of the old hundred twenty-dollar arrangement up to now, because the previous ones have already set the previous hundred twenty-dollars, and this is a new hundred-dollar arrangement for those who were charged after and therefore had not been able to adjust, until now, these days, there are counts - all of them can, based on this arrangement go and adjust in a hundred twenty-dollar instalments, save increment and interest, depending on whether they choose less than a hundred-dollar, as there is the known parameter. In this way we are also giving a substantial breath to an old debt that is chasing many businesses and which, in this particular juncture, could put them in a very difficult position. In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Stakoura and the Ministry of Finance in particular. This bill is a difficult bill, a product of hard work and Mr Kourmonissi, by the General Secretariat of Private Debts. We have worked on this, and we from the Ministry of Development have already worked for about a year now and Mr Tsakalotos is not concerned, the most appropriate time to come is now. Why now? Because of COVID -19 the private debt issue has increased further. So we need to give people breath and opportunity to escape from the nightmare they live in. Anyone who does not pass this bill actually tells people to stay locked in their debts always. It's just the exact backwards from what you've all been yelling for many days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u137	We will give the floor to Mr Theocharis to support the amendment by a general number of 535. Minister, you have three minutes, you have a warm request to start with the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to bring this amendment, which we extend until the end of November the operation of so-called quarantine hotels, quarantine hotels or quarantine hotels. It is an important initiative that we had taken at the beginning of the summer, so that Greek tourism could safely open up and open up in a way that will allow the economy to function with a health guarantee of all destinations. And indeed, this has worked to a very good and satisfactory degree. However, while our initial programming was to run until the end of October, the latest developments have allowed international travel agents and international tour operators to expand their programmes and deep in November, which, of course, had not done so in the past few years. This year, our country has strengthened its image abroad, it has strengthened its brand name and it is characteristic that it is the first in the choices of a series of great and powerful tour operators. I give the example of JET2 from Great Britain, which has scheduled five hundred and eighty-six flights this year. First country, therefore, in the choices of Great Britain and JET2. The same applies to TUI, a tour operator, who is active in a number of Scandinavian countries, Benelux, Great Britain, Germany and Central Europe. For TUI Greece is the first country in the choices of its clients. This means that the programmes are being extended by the end of November by Germany, by mid-November from Great Britain, and this makes it necessary to extend the activation of isolation hotels so that we can ensure the smooth operation of the Greek tourist product, giving the guarantee to the people who choose us that our country's choice is a safe option. This amendment must therefore be voted on and it must be supported by all the wings of the House that want our economy to continue to operate safely. I am ending with a few words about the fact of the last figures, which have been announced by the Bank of Greece. We see that despite the difficult situation we have had, our country has also managed to win an opening bet on tourism. We had never set any target quantitative, but only qualitative targets. We've been talking about it all along. We want to be able to open up, we do, we want those who come to feel and be safe and come back with their health and the best impressions. This has happened and at the same time we manage to achieve a remarkable amount of income, given the circumstances, which supports families of people working in tourism, who support professional tourism, who supports tourism businesses. Greek tourism does not want to hand over problems to the dear Minister of Finance, who is trying to solve an institutional framework for private debt. We've been trying to support household incomes all this time. I am therefore pleased to ask you to support this amendment, which is a sign of the success of Greek tourism this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. MEP Vassilios Joyakas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 26 to 29 October 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u140	The House approved the requested permission. Mr Evangelos Liakos has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. First of all I would like to say that I have the honour of being the first speaker following the announcement of another historic decision by justice. That is why I would also like to congratulate her on her effectiveness in sending Golden Dawn to prison a moment ago. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to dwell on the individual details of today's bill. After all, all these days, all the articles have been discussed in the most thorough way. There have been opinions and proposals from a number of bodies directly or indirectly related to the operation of the new bankruptcy code. So let me turn to the substance which is no other than the provision of a second chance, as is the title of this draft law. We are in the midst of a global health crisis, the economic benefits of which we have all already felt. Greece has already preceded a heavy and long-term economic crisis with consequences very hard for all Greeks. That is why it is absolutely vital that the debate on today's bill is now taking place. The truth is that giving a second chance after bankruptcy is not particularly widespread in Europe. Some countries such as Bulgaria, Croatia and Poland are in the process of preparing the corresponding measures. There are other measures to provide a second chance, such as Austria and Hungary. With today's data in many countries, including ours, honest bankrupt entrepreneurs are treated just like dishonest people, although the latter represent only 4% -6% of total bankruptcies. This bill makes a very serious effort to regulate the debt of natural and legal persons through innovative institutional processes that exploit all modern solvency instruments, while the purpose remains one: Healthy transition to the next day. The equation is not and will not be easy. That's for sure. However, the foundations for the creation of a modern bankruptcy framework which is not of a punishable nature and which, through the functions it ensures, ensures that, as long as bankruptcy has not been done by fraud, the natural or legal person will have the necessary guarantees by the State to rebuild his property. This is an innovative framework that is primarily based on prevention and, secondly, on addressing and relaunching. It aims to return production means to productive activities as well as to maintain viable businesses by means of the extrajudicial conciliation procedure or the resolution process. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to dwell on two very important innovations carried by this bill: the Electronic Solvency Register and not unduly discussed first home protection. The introduction of the Solvency Electronic Register by Article 213 ensures not only access by creditors to the procedure but also transparency in general. With the new bankruptcy code, debt relief and, in particular, the provision of a second chance are attributed only to honest debtors and not to strategic poor payers, and certainly not to those who have fraudulently concealed income. It clarifies the landscape so that it does not happen again - there are bankrupt employers with huge properties and workers who are hostages of labour-intensive schemes. The second point I wish to raise is the protection of first residence. On this issue a lot has been heard and written, it is also the issue with the greatest social impact, as it concerns thousands of households who have been in an endless process since the crisis. This is a process which, unfortunately, in several cases, ended up in the auctioning of their first home. I personally see the new regulations as brave and certainly in the right direction. In response to those who blame today's bill, and I am referring above all to Civic Opposition, I would like to say that, before deciding to fill out its provisions, they should first make a self-criticism and remember that only in 2018 in the government of SYRIZA became three thousand three hundred eighty-eight auctions. So the new code does give a second chance to all these people who were in danger of losing their home. The new law provides for the liquidation of debtors’ assets with a view to direct debt relief. It also provides for State intervention in order to avoid the extermination of our fellow citizens, in order to stay at their homes and at the end of twelve years to have the right to regain them. Finally, it provides for the debt write-off of the debtor by giving him a real second chance so that one generation's debts will not pass into the next. The draft law enables thousands of our fellow citizens to save their homes. It shows that there is a government that recognised the agony and labor of our fellow people, who saw the weak points of the previous legislative framework and at last made it impossible to resolve them immediately, ignoring the resentment and reactions of the banks. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole world has started a debate on whether existing economic systems are capable of meeting the current challenges of the markets. We have all seen how the role of the state in the economy has been reviewed on the basis of the current health crisis. I personally believe that our responsibility requires us to see the truth in the face and to make courageous decisions in time and such a brave decision is to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is very important, I would say it is historic. Greek democracy and Greek justice gave a strong response to fascism. The leadership of the criminal organisation of Golden Dawn is being led to prison and so it ends the action of an organization that was full of violence, blood, hatred and certainly not honor and not glory. We must thank those who held the head high and those who supported the anti-fascist movement all these years, but also the witnesses, the lawyers and the families of the victims. We stand with respect in the face of the justice decision and take responsibility for the continuation of the anti-fascist struggle because the fight with fascism is lasting and does not end today. The progressive democratic movement is the best response to Nazi ideas and to the causes of extreme right-wing behaviors, ideas and attitudes of life. Today's debate is literally moving around a dilemma. Is the ownership of the first place questioned or not? And because we have been in trouble with these dilemmas in the last fifteen months of New Democracy, and because I think that you have to a large extent completed the answers if it is hope or dystopic future what Mr Mitsotakis' government has prepared, let us see the dilemmas about some such basic theories that you had in the election process. First commitment: 'We will have growth and fiscal stability'. So what did we have? A recession that Mr Stakoras did not accept at the beginning of the pandemic, which he then accepted, but which created a budget without accepting it. So the first dilemma that the recession went and where growth went. Secondly, 'Reservoirs and financial stability'. The New Democracy Government did not admit the 37 billion-dollar pillow. He admitted it then, but he did not use it to help the Greek economy. So the vaccine we had for the market and the economy never gave it up, and we are unfortunately driving the economy, as 1/3 of businesses are about to close down. Work, you promised me work. The worker will therefore work at better times, because unfortunately we have a lot of redundancies, but he will be paid as if he is not working, because what Mr Georgiadis said is enough for someone to live. In national sovereignty, from what we see the term will increase, but sovereign rights and at the same time national security are being violated. The term of office will, however, be increased to have sovereign rights. In foreign policy, the government was committed to vetoing NATO and the European Union and Northern Macedonia, but it will support with all the forces the European course of Northern Macedonia - and it will do well - and finally the seventy vetos that the current ministers said they would enter, have gone nowhere. Because, as some people were raped to pull their ears to Mr. Mitsotakis, he also took his ear to Mr. Teddy and came down with a joint statement of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Greece - USA to change the joint statement of Pompelo - Trees as a shame on Greek diplomacy. We're wondering, do we have any more of these dilemmas? Of course, we have sanctions. The sanctions were not in our strategy, as Mr Varvitsiotis said, but they will then bite, as Mr Petsas said, but at the end of the day the German Chancellor said that the official demand for sanctions did not appear to have entered the final Council minutes. Can we go somewhere else? Of course, we should go to health issues, and the Minister is here. Intensive treatment units have told us that they will be inaugurated, which eventually turns out to be with loan-mobile doctors. In the end, however, the government, because it manages the pandemic well, decided to open the stadiums, but eventually because it could be a crowd in the morning and in the evening, they decided to close the stadiums at night and only in the public transport and the schools in the morning, because in the end, it might be a great problem for the ministers' events, for the opening from the Kingdom to the transmission, some are filming to make it public. Let's at least go to see if there's something going on in schools that's not dilemma and problematic. The mask of the students from where it was individual responsibility and duty of the family said to us Mr.Theodorikos, disputing Mrs.Kerameos, that the Prime Minister will make it a state responsibility and that even today we are looking to prepare a competition for a "fesco" and hopefully next time, Mr. Roussepoulou, that you do not send parachutes to school for students again. Otherwise, we are still lacking substitute teachers from last year's school composition, and we are not talking about further. Let's see what's going on with respect to security at least and the law. As far as we've learned, the country will keep the rules in order. The fourteen-year-olds will sit in the detention room, as will the staff member who may have modified her CV, but will forget Mr. Chrysochoidis to send a message to the country's authorities of exit and border control, and Mr. Lagos will leave and from the back the Minister of Justice will pass amendments to amputate bankers, while the bankers will erase 500,000 million loans of the shipowners. The rule of order and security is therefore respected. At least they support the investments. Yes, we must congratulate the Minister - without a portfolio of development - because he has managed to make a high score today, to have a new amendment to the Greek and finally to have passed more amendments than old buildings you have demolished. But we still did not see a contract or an advance, even though it only took a week to finish the ministerial decisions and by the end of 2019 the bulldozers would have entered it. Is that what you're talking about? To see the competition on the free market. Of course, that's where we're going. There we do have competition and a free market, that is to say a private monopoly for the whole gas network in Greece to have no competition, no competition, no competition and no competition, and no one to take it and ready, not to put up a single euro. Nice competition! While in electricity trading we have a nice cartel where PPC keeps high prices, four times it sold in April from the wholesale market, and so merchants - not producers, not producers, not those who make investments - to make over-profits at the expense of all and the entrepreneurship and households and all investments of RES are at risk of subsidies. Nice competition too! So, where can we figure out a end? We found her in the bankrupt. Here, therefore, our good government has brought a bill to stop the protection of property and of first home, but at least the owner can rent his own home and when he has to buy it back in his purchasing value, and so he must get a loan, get back into red loans and get the bank home again, so that the bank always has a home and always the vulnerable households, and the economy must not have a house or house. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the problems that the Greek state has today. Eventually we have to decide. Does this government take us forward or take us towards a dystopian future, which, unfortunately, is essentially questioning education, health, the economy, national security? I think that what we all have to answer together is that the houses must also be defended, because unfortunately the ownership of the first residence with this bill is questioned, but also another course in Greece must be defended, because we houses will defend them, as we always know in the courts and in the movements and in the House, and in this way in the democratic process, and this government will give its place to a democratic progressive government which will also put an end to the issues of housing protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u144	We will now conclude the first half of the Members with Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Katsotis and Mrs Alexopoulos, and then I will give the floor to Mr Varoufakis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u145	The bill that is obviously being discussed is a false copy. It does not simply facilitate the bankruptcy of individuals, but forces tens of thousands of small businesses to go bankrupt. The so-called second opportunity does not exist for many, but only for banks, nor is there any reason for first home protection. The union is now a partner of the banks. We did not expect anything better than New Democracy, which found the way from the previous government and Mr Stathakis, who effectively abolished the protection of his first residence of Law 3869/10. The failure of the extrajudicial compromise and the so-called electronic platform is reflected in the evidence we have provided. Finally, the rights of citizens, consumers, borrowers, the insured only PASOK guaranteed them sincerely and with specific legislative interventions and in conflict with the banks and insurance they continue to want all of them today. I recall, as a competent State Secretary in 2011, we abolished by ministerial decision ten abuses that the banks used and banned the corresponding unfair practices. Their mandate that they put advertisements in all the media was "discuss him". I deposit the relevant FEC, January 18, 2011. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have then banned insurance companies from unilaterally modifying the terms of health contracts if this is not specifically mentioned in the remodeling mechanism in the contract. I deposit the relevant FEC, January 22, 2011. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The dispute with a large insurance company that applied for lasted from 2011 to March 2019, until recently. Decision 552 of the Council of State was published. INTERAMERICAN has lost the appeal, but at the same time there is a case-law and decision of the Council of State. And it comes today by the Ministry of Development under Article 268 to abolish a decision of the Council of State, to abolish the ban they had set by opening the way for arbitrary and excessive increases in insurance premiums in long-term health insurance contracts from which, of course, the insured persons are fully dependent, cannot react. I table the decision of the Council of State. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision of the Council of State, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Withdrawal of Article 268, be informed and see first whether it is compatible with Council Decision 552. This is a very problematic article. We will submit a request for a denomination if you do not withdraw this article, as for other articles, and of course, at the beginning of the bill. The Change Movement tabled three amendments. The Minister came and said that 'I do not accept any amendments'. It is a paradoxical one, in this case. He has, of course, rejected it without reading it. For the protection of first residence and for the classification of workers as beneficiaries in the clearance procedure to be immediately post-public, as was the case again in PASOK. Also, for an important issue, which is a failure, Mr. Minister, a bad legal arrangement, for the 30% reduction in VAT rate, which applies to the islands of Lesvos, Chios, Samos and Kos, is not the case for the smaller islands belonging to the same islands and is next door. I mean, for the Oinousses, Forens, Ikaria, Ai Stratis, Lemnos and Kalymnos. And you reject this? It's yours. But you've come here in the past few days and revealed to us that there is a new kind of antimony, after the antimony SYRIZA - ANEL, that would be abolished by an article and a law, the post-memorandums. I don't know if it's in the face of any processes for a new memorandum, and you know something. I would remind you that in 2004 New Democracy received from PASOK and Costas Simitis an economy that had succeeded in joining the Eurozone and the conditions for membership, with a growth rate of 5% and a moderate public debt of 101% of GDP. The Karamanlis government, instead of continuing the policy of reforming economic and social convergence, has shaken growth and brought down. The competitiveness of the economy - you all remember - fell into nadir. The current account balance at minus 14%, reflecting the real dynamics of an economy. The annual deficits reached 16% in 2009 and were increasingly covering additional loans, which came from 163 billion euros public debt to 301 billion euros. This financial derailment, Mr Staikora, in 2004-2009 caused the crisis and the need for memoranda. And don't silence it. Identify this once for which, after all, you were called and managed the second memorandum. One could see it cut out, laugh. However, Greece is in a new crisis and you are administering this new crisis. It needs seriousness and you cannot fly "fireworks". On 20 January we submitted evidence and a request for preventive measures. They had to repress fifty days later, after the first death, unfortunately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am tabling parliamentary intervention in order to be in the Minutes of the House once again. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today the economy is dragging. Thousands of non-assisted enterprises are cold-formed. Workers lose income and the unemployed are constantly growing. On the margins of professionals, self-employed and farmers. The government has at its disposal 84 billion in total, unlike 2010, which had nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u146	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President, by referring to the Recovery Fund, to the new NSRF, the current NSRF and the FEOGA, and the need for a project. It turns out that today there are more resources than that. Our European Union supports, there is no division of Memorandum - anti-immemorandums and there is no recovery plan. Have you commissioned private companies? What do you want with her? The Greek people expect a concrete plan from you, on the basis of which the Recovery Fund and other resources can be used to address the negative consequences of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u148	Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Rejecting the demand for suspension for the majority of convicted Nazi criminals and, in particular, the director of the Golden Dawn, was the self-evident decision. The condemnation of the Nazi criminal formation was necessary. However, there is no reassurance, because, as was revealed in the past and during the trial, fascism is a genuine child of this rotten system, having a complication with parts of the urban state and capital. And if they need Golden Dawn again or some other Nazi motif, they will not hesitate to show it and support it against the people. The Minister of Finance made a referral back to the legislative framework for overdue households from 2010 until today. Yes, there were many laws, with the next one being worse than the previous one, as the Minister confirmed in his regression. The bill that it brings is, of course, worse than the previous one. The title of the bill is ‘Adjustment of debts and provision of a second chance’. Really, what do you say to the world, that grabbing any real estate, homes, tractors, land, work tools, and mobile property from banks and funds is a debt settlement? So the debt is settled with a commitment of any property? Is living with a reasonable amount of living of EUR 600 a protection for the debtor? The fact that the professional loses everything and will only keep the professional license is a second chance? No, it's suffocation and hostility. Is it protection for vulnerable groups the possibility of being a tenant in his home, which will have passed in the hands of a private body, which will give rent, with the threat of eviction and auctioning, if it is not consistent? Consequence, which requires absolute poverty. Is it protection and opportunity to be able to buy it again after twelve years, because neither rents nor everything he paid before bankruptcy will be taken into account? Most borrowers have paid their loans twice and three times to the banks, through the various arrangements and illegal settlements. Banking groups over the years have been capitalised three times with many billions, on account of red loans from the workers' pocket. If all this money was given to increases in wages and pensions, the people could pay their debts more easily. On the other hand, wages and pensions, high unemployment, elastic forms, are the ones that dominate. Gentlemen, the only protection you have provided is banks, so that they can enhance the liquidity of monopolistic groups and investments. The banks, which, over the years, have gone to thousands of voluntary and straight redundancies of workers, splitting sections, closing dozens of stores, smuggling workers with unpaid work every day, intensified by teleworking. There is no care to remove illegal interest, no protection for people who have been beaten by government policy in the years of the crisis, who have lost their jobs, no protection for others who have been sick. The New Democracy found the ground bent by SYRIZA, who "screwed" the protection of the first home and voted for the unacceptable law on electronic auctions and for the arrangement that raises the fight against specific offences against protection against auctions. It comes in a few days, as the government leaks, and the peculiarity of the workers' union. Among other provocative issues, this bill makes workers even worse. It provides that, in the event of bankruptcy of an undertaking, workers' contracts of employment are to be terminated on a fair basis. They are automatically discharged and thrown on the road and, indeed, without compensation. Prior laws of the SYRIZA Government which degraded the demands of workers in the event of the company going bankrupt in order to take precedence over them. This provision in the new bankruptcy code, coupled with the validity of what the SYRIZA laws provide for, means that workers are completely in the air without any protection. The representative of the New Democracy here said that compensation is not lost, but goes into bankruptcy claims. I mean, if there's anything left, they'll get the workers too. This provision breaks workers. It is also foreseen that the employee who actually continues to provide his work following the declaration of bankruptcy for wages or other benefits is satisfied as a group creditor. What does that mean? Providing free work in order to recover the restructured business and the profits of its shareholders. Stop mocking all those whose position your policy has exacerbated, led them to poverty, impoverishment, destruction. Today you will vote for an anti-grass excret. You will commit another crime against workers and the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Gentlemen, the exploitation system with its mechanisms and the forces that serve it, in their attempt to slander the JRC's proposal of authority, urged that he would take the homes of the world. The JRC is the only party that enters the front with the people to stop the crime, the eruption, the grabbing of the people themselves at their home.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u150	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u151	I shall conclude, Mr President. That was the aim of the amendment to alleviate the excessively indebted households we had tabled for the most part. It is timely today and we call on the workers and the populace to become the goal of their struggle. It is the answer to the bank capital plans implemented by their governments, so that thousands of people's households do not lose what they have left. You have all rejected this amendment. You have spread and extended a protection shield to monopolistic and banking groups. Today we have tabled the amendment providing that labour requirements should be preceded by bankruptcy or the auctioning of undertakings. These arrangements in our amendment can ensure labour requirements and give workers a breath. The attitude of the political forces rejecting the protection of the workers and the indebted households from the "paracists" to become a criterion with the workers and the populace, to strengthen the alliance of the workers, the self-employed in the city and the village, at the same time weakening the support line of the monopolistic groups. The motto "no house in the hands of a banker", the universal protection of the first house, the haircut of the people's debt to strengthen struggles and solidarity. The collapsing with the JRC, its strengthening everywhere is the answer. This will give the workers and the people the strength in their struggle to relieve the working people's family, to cover the losses and to claim the real needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u152	Mrs Alexopoulou Anastasia has the floor from the Greek Solution. It's the first five.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u153	You said two speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u154	But I had the names announced. You were here, too. We said to finish the first six MPs. There are five of them, because there are no Members from a parliamentary group. Now if you insist, there's no question, Mr. Varoufakis. I was just announcing that after Mrs Alexopoulou, it would be you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u155	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u156	Come on, Mrs. Alexopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will certainly all agree with me that this bill is too critical for the Greek people and that it should not be treated on a clumsy and superficial basis. And yet society's reactions to the draft law we are debating today should be flattered by the government. It is a bill full of traps, which immediately raises serious objections to its feasibility and its whole logic. It is courageous and it is cut and sewn against the sovereign people, not in favour of the Greeks who should serve. A draft law that obviously has other roots and its ultimate purpose is unclear. Do the inspirations of this bill know that the home is a sacred concept to us Greeks? Rather not, judging by the substantial abolition of the protection of first homes, which the law has so far ensured. Because under the income and assets criteria established, a large part of Greeks are no longer considered vulnerable, so the law does not protect them. And here is the first question: Who has forced you to remove the protection of first residence, gentlemen of the government? Aren't you telling us everything goes well in the economy, that we don't have memoirs and other such beautiful things? What is happening and will the state no longer protect the first residences of the Greeks? What power does it impose upon you to legislate against the Greek nation? There is another basic question here. Will you take the Greeks' homes and do what, gentlemen? Who are you going to give them to? Who will now live in them, if not their Greek owners? Do you want, I'm just asking, in Greek homes, illegal immigrants, all those who illegally entered our country, or foreigners buying our homes? What is finally happening, ladies and gentlemen? Are we going to unleash the indigenous inhabitants of this country to bring others to their place? I beg your pardon, but this does not result from the lifting of the protection of the first residence. Because it cannot be accidental that this is passed in the Greek Parliament, while you are going to legalise, even give citizenship to foreigners who are illegally in Greece. But let's go further on the settlement of debts. You say that you solve everything, but banks continue to have a say in the capitalisation of all debts, while when they refuse out-of-court regulation, the debtor cannot regulate his debts in the public and insurance funds. You call that social policy? Who do these things serve? Not the ordinary Greeks, however. But what about the bankruptcy procedure? There is a serious trap regarding the criterion of the alleged termination of payments of 40% of liabilities in six months. If this is more than 30,000 euros, then the way to mass bankruptcy is open. And that, we are warned by experts, is even about those debtors who have not actually entered into a real and substantial set-aside of payments. Is it a philosophical policy, in other words, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? They also point out that there is no provision for the legislator to balance the conflicting interests of creditors and poor people in the bankruptcy process. This is because the legislator is reserved not for the poor of the weak side, but for the creditors who have the absolute right to choose the insolvency administrator, the famous bankruptcy syndicate, as the lawyers say. And to return a little to the issue of ownership and how this draft law affects it, in the event of barren auctioning, the property of the poor comes to the public. Why, ladies and gentlemen? Unfortunately, we have in New Democracy the same attitude as the previous ones, SYRIZA, where you compete with each other who will turn more against the Greek people. Let me say one more thing. As the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, pointed out, the integration of the first residence into the bankruptcy, constitutes a violation of the Constitution. And this is because our Constitution ensures the right to housing for the Greeks so that every child of Greece has its own housed natural space to stay. It's over and over! Auction of first place of residence means a constitutional diversion. And that goes to bring us this bill now. And, anyway, does it make sense to vote for such a draft law when Greece is plagued by the coronary pandemic? Is it possible to bring in a new bankruptcy law when the country is bankrupt? The New Democracy today, SYRIZA yesterday, unfortunately, serves the same interests and not the interests of the ordinary Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u158	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u159	Just a second, Mr President. The only real opposition right now in the Parliament and the country is the Greek Solution and Kyriakos Velopoulos. We believe that, above all, above all, the economic interests of the few are the interests of the nation, which, in order to defend it, our ancestors have spilled their blood on the battlefields. This is the historical legacy of the Greeks, and that is why we will give the battle to the end. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u160	The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the payment of societies - thousands of years - it was very important who owed what and to whom and the violence the creditor could exercise on the debtor to extract from the debtor what he considered to have been receiving. Indeed, every relationship of power, every social conflict of wealthy - poor, powerless - who have always been incapable of concealing the conflict of creditors - of debtors. The bankruptcy law of a country - to see it from this historical point of view - reflects, at this historic juncture, the evolution of this conflict, which is endless between creditors and debtors. Every bankruptcy law, that is, is a redistribution tool, usually forged by the hands of the powerful who write the laws. In particular, in modern market economies, bankruptcy law is even more important, as, in relation to feudalism, the huge growth brought about by capitalism, the liberalisation of economic production powers is due to debt. It is the debt that initiates the process of capital accumulation and that is why bankruptcys in capitalism are what hell is for Christianity, something very unpleasant but absolutely necessary. The system does not work without bankruptcy. Do you remember the Sabelle doctrine, that the debt is unnegotiable and can never be bored? He told me personally in his office when we first met. He told me, "a debt is a debt, it is a debt", "a debt is a debt, is a debt". I told him that this was a dogma of interest, but completely incompatible with the market economy, with capitalism. Imagine that there was a demon who imposed the Shebble doctrine on capitalism, in other words, ensuring that every debt would be repaid. Why, then, the creditor, the banker pays great attention to who he lends if there was a guarantee that he would get his money back? Then the debt would become a mountain that would break all of us. Precisely because orderly bankruptcy is essential for the operation of the money market, capitalism has taken over since the mid-19th century when they closed debt prisons and started to have bankruptcy law and was introduced - that is even, perhaps, more important - the concept of 'limited liability'. And in capitalist countries where bankruptcy law became more friendly to debtors, such as the United States, capitalism "flyed" faster, higher. In the United States, since I mentioned them, even that you have taken a housing loan of 500,000 to buy a home. Here comes a crisis, the value of the house falls to 200,000, you've lost income, and you can't pay back your loan. If you want, you put your condolences on a truck, you take your family, you pass through the branch of the bank where you got the loan, you give them the keys, you tell them "I can't anymore" and you've undone without any possibility of the bank chasing you for other assets you had. Here, because in America the economy is more dynamic than in Europe, because bankruptcy is not a conviction, running in court for years or losing a house that you may have inherited from your mother or father as a businessman. So the bankrupt turns a page and the economy meets faster. In your programming statements, Minister, in the Prime Minister's programme statements, I had listened with interest to the promise of a bankruptcy law that would give a second chance. Unfortunately, like so many others, you didn't mean it. Let's start in the sense of co-responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, if I come and ask you for a loan of EUR 1 million and give it to me, half of my fault is mine, half of your fault. If I can't pay it back to you, half my shame, half your shame. This means co-responsibility of a creditor - debtor. Where's that co-responsibility in your bill? Totally absent. Instead of leading us to a situation closer to that of the United States, look generally at what law you are going to vote on tonight. In a country where the public debt, which your governments - New Democracy and PASOK - have glared before a crisis, in a country where when the banking system of the West collapsed, starting with Wall Street, as a result of the bankruptcy of the government, which you brought and which you have extended to the two-month period with your four Memorandums - and here we have three parties responsible - has fallen into the self-evident crisis - unsustainable debt, overtaxation, austerity, deficits, even less sustainable debt - in this country where capitalism cannot function even after the conversion into an unsustainable debt prison in this country - in debt, as we say again - you are bringing a law that creates hundreds of hundreds of millions of small - perhaps even hundreds of thousands - of individual prisons in which the 81% of businesses and six hundred households are in danger. Ladies and gentlemen, look at what you're going to do, what you're going to vote on today. Let it close a medium-sized business because of the crisis, so that it cannot repay all its creditors, workers, tax, insurance funds, banks. What's your law imposing? Think about it. Any value left by this company should first be paid by the already thousands of the citizens of the bank. You remember how much money this state has given banks, whether in the form of capital aid, recapitalisations or the IOUs that Mr Stagiras has still given today, as did all previous finance ministers, IOU tens of billions, which are constantly being renewed. This bank, the already thousands of dollars, the last worker, will be paid. That's what you're telling us! And as if that wasn't enough, when that employee, who won't get his money back with your own law, as a result of your own law that can't repay his housing, he'll come another bank, maybe the same bank, with the summaries of your own law go bankrupt and take his home, even if this house didn't get it on a housing loan, but it was the legacy of the house and she went for it to get a business loan. I'll come back to this, it's very important. And what do you think? Yes, don't be afraid, we'll let him - he says - stay home, pay rent for twelve years. Who's going to impose this rent? Who's gonna decide? The banker's friend who in the meantime found another way to speculate by creating, setting up management companies for these terrible rentals for twelve years and then he says he will be able to buy it again. What honor? At a price decided by the bank partner. You are going to vote, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, a law that actually gives the strategies of the malpractices, namely the bankers - there is no more strategic mispaid than the bankers in this country today and in other countries - and the fewer. You know very well what percentage of late public debts are due to the oligarchs. So you are giving them the opportunity to make violent use of the entire property that the bankers themselves, the fewers themselves, assisted by you of the New Democracy and the PASOK, have brought in a state of general inability to fulfil their debt obligations through the debt you built by 2010 and its expansion, permanently through the memoranda you have voted on and your refusal to rescind your debt. The American bankruptcy law to which I have referred, ladies and gentlemen, of course, is not ideal, no law can overthrow the momentum of any form of capitalism towards barbarism. Let us not forget Mr Trump, since we have elections in the United States any minute. Mr. Trump, for anyone who doesn't remember it or ever knew it, how did he get rich? How did she make a claim? Through a sequence of bankruptcys from which he also enriched and became almighty, while he was the worst battling against both Deutsche Bank - and this is ironic - and his employees, who eventually lost their homes, while he acquired new skyscrapers, new casinos, new golf courses, new power, new wealth. But, at least, in the United States, the small and medium-sized victims of Trump do not have to live under the yoke of the open debt prison being built today, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with the bill you are voting on. A mediator in the United States never had to put his home on the guarantee to get a business loan. The Greek small and medium-sized one was forced to do it. Today you take not only the house of those who bought it with a housing loan from Piraeus, from the National and the home of a small media that inherited it, which was its own, but had to preview it to make a business move. For 30,000 euros, this is the limit you set, whether it is a factory or a stand, it doesn't matter, horizontal, you take homes, even their grandparents, punishing them for opening a business in bad times of crisis. I know you're out of your mind, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, but at Mera25 we won't stop telling you, reminding you, you're not even neoliberal. Well, liberals forget about it. You are not even a fiancée of capitalism, which, as the American experience proves, requires co-responsibility of creditor and debtor, the one lacking in your draft law. Move exclusively from the interests of the parasitic neofudalist oligarchy that looks well at the few remaining property to the victims of this same oligarchy. The abortion they put you in tonight to vote is not just a law. Think about what you're doing tonight. You will vote for a law that will be a station in history for the next few years, perhaps for the next decades. It is a legal station for the country that will remain in history, which will prove to be a cause for the hunting of the early for decades, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. They have no right to make you vote for this abortion. That is why, because it is important for the bill, I hope the President will give me the opportunity to be a little more detailed, because all of us here have a responsibility for what is being voted on here and now. I'll take you a little, I'll go back to Greece before the crisis in 2010. In the period from the time we appeared to be entering the euro until the end of 2008-2010. That is precisely because the Greek currency was linked to - essentially - the mark had a debt tsunami both public and private that created a sine qua non of development. At that time, at the time when many refer to the great food, not everyone ate during the great food. The majority had to get through it, she had to keep her head above the water surface. People in the supermarket fund, and then they fought. The people who worked in the ESS, the teachers, the crafts workers were forced to accept the holiday loans and this private debt tsunami sent to them in their mailboxes. Then for bankers that mass of people who didn't make it, but more or less he managed to keep them with nails and teeth, that was, if you want, the source of profits for the banks. Because, as you know, a well-paid man is a banker's nightmare. When you have a credit card and after two days, you defile it after a purchase, the banker hates you because he can't win anything from you. It is the ideal customer of the bank that sometimes manages to pay off their instalments, some of them fail to do so, and others come along and create conditions of toddler, legal toddler. A bankruptcy law, like what you are bringing today, if you had passed it in 2000 - whoever you were in the government at the time - would not be as disastrous as it is today, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. It would not be 81% of businesses and six hundred thousand households before the crisis. Let me say it differently. If you're destroying the lifeboats of a ship, which just aboard, but didn't sink in good time, you haven't done a great deal of crime, though it's a crime. It's a crime to destroy lifeboats on a ship that sinks into a frenzyed ocean of bankruptcies. Then you're a serial killer. There comes the crisis of 2010 that starts - let us not forget this - as a banking crisis by the United States, the Franco-German banks, and then comes to countries such as Ireland or Greece, in Ireland, private debt is high, so as a banking crisis, in Greece, where the public debt was high, but as a bank bankruptcy, it does not matter at all because in Ireland, which was a big private debt, bankruptcy has made the state go bankrupt, here the public debt has led banks to bankruptcy by complicating public and private debt. What do we see in recent years? A series of governments to make this crisis opportunity by perpetuating the bankruptcy of the state and the banks through your memorials and applying ten years of socialism for bankers and cruel austerity for all others, sound austerity for many. An oligarchy with no borders, revered by the troika, first looted both the Greek State's property and its tools - it is not possible for tax today to be controlled exclusively by the Troika - while the incomes of the small and medium-sized enterprises are violently shrinking. Then with your participation, companions of SYRIZA, began the project of pillaging the private property that peaks today. The first water in the shackle for today's bill, which actually plunders private property, began with the third memorandum. Then you accepted what I told Dieselblum, Vizer, Draghi and others to forget, that we would never accept the sale of the red loans to the predators' funds, the "HRAKLE" that you and SYRIZA brought in, and the class reclassification of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. You of SYRIZA in 2015 agreed to go first to the ranking of the banks, after the government, at the end of the day, the employees. If that's possible! You also dropped the public under the banks. In 2018 you tried to regain some morality by creating the super-private for workers. That's good. We are tabling an amendment with which we hold your overpriced, but we are inverting the rest of the classification. It is not possible for the government to be after the banks. I hope there will be support in this amendment beyond Mera25. The first blow to the fifth memorandum - because it actually starts with this bill today - is that you are returning the toxicological situation that it always puts creditors first in the event of a company going bankrupt. The second is through the process of collecting information from the platform, which is now entering the forefront of the bankruptcy procedure. Creditors will be fully aware of all the assets of the candidate for bankruptcy. The pillaging that has already been done will now have a digital platform. I will be specific to my complaint, ladies and gentlemen. I know a case of businessman - and I will say where, in Rhodes - who had received a loan of some millions in 2007 had almost repaid it all by 2011, because of the crisis he had a problem with repayments, he was willing to make a arrangement that would have unraveled this loan for many years now, but not by his creditors, because he has a very rich E9 and they want to loot his E9. And you, with this bill, serve them. I referred to it before, and I will once again refer to it. It is a request from the small and medium-sized enterprises, which many of them are voting for, or at least voted on, we hope. Let's see how you react to this. I said it before and I will tell you one more time: forget who tells you. Listen to the simple thought. It is not possible for a house that was purchased with a 90% housing loan of its value, which then became unhelpful, to deal with the same thing as the home of a small businessman, who in particular now and with the coronary is very likely not to be able to serve the loan he obtained, using as a guarantee for his or his mother's home. You don't even have the right to the social class you think she's a friend to you. But you do, because you don't even think. I'm absolutely sure you didn't even write those articles in the bill. They gave it to you either from Brussels or some of the circles here in Greece. Third hit. Many colleagues have said - and I will be very fast - about the definition of the judiciary. Mercy, ladies and gentlemen! Like giving the mob the right to choose a judge in a case against her victim. Mercy! Tell me a country in which this happens, civilised or even uncivilized. Do you understand what you're doing? To those who were lending without a measure of crisis, to the people you gave IOU 56 billion, to the bankers you borrowed, when you were in the PASOK conflict, 41 billion - and more later to SYRIZA - to give them it to them. It was the loan of the Greek State that you gave it to the bankers. And now the bankers themselves, the same banks, the same bank executives co-operate with predators targeting the homes and shops of common people and in which funds are currently ready because of the "HRAKLI" to give them 12 billion more public money due to the guarantee of the failed "HRAKLI". In other words, I have said it and I will say it again: to the strategic partners of the malpractices you are giving the right to choose a union. By the way, if all that money you've given the banks all this time, you had used it to cover the depositors' deposits, there would be no problem with banking crisis and there would be no problem with red loans. Of course, they wouldn't win the predators that this evening will open champagne. And since you have the courtesy, Mr. Stakoura, dear Christo, to be here because I heard you before, let's finish this story. Every time you cannot answer something our Parliamentary representative tells you, in a proposal we are making, will you start the same story again, the same message for the banks that closed Baroufakis and the destruction that it has brought? Is that possible? We're colleagues. We understand that a bank's funds have nothing to do with the deposits. You want to talk about leaving the deposit? Who started leaving the deposit, Mr. Stakoura? Your chosen, Mr. Stournaras, the unproven and sworn governor of the Bank of Greece. On December 14th, the first time in the history of central bank, commander of central bank in a speech to the honor of Xenophon Zolotas predicted a liquidity crisis on the markets. It's like a fireman in a full theater shouting "Techniques, Run Christians, because we're lost!" You started leaving the deposit. And it's not about bankruptcies. On January 25, 2015, Mr. Stakoura, or 27, if I'm not mistaken, if I'm not mistaken about the tradition of the Ministry, you delivered me bankrupt. And why? Because the only property the banks have is loans and loans that they had in their plaques, their books, the banks were red. Because the crisis, the austerity, the overtaxation you introduced, saying 'yes' to the troika brought red, loans, the redemption of loans. Some, because we have tabled a specific proposal on red loans, tell us: What is different from what the government says - which gives the possibility of renting for twelve years to bankrupt households - from your own proposal? We call it 'Ulysses'. We have submitted our proposal in the context of the establishment of a public red loan management company and we say: Transfer of the red loans to this public company, the bad bank. The titles, mortgages that go to the bank to pay the hole in the bank accounts. And the debtor freezes his loan, does not lose the property title and pays a fixed price - you can consider it a rent - every month, until he escapes from bankruptcy either through a negotiation or because he has been through a crisis, the price has increased or the property has been sold with the consent of the debtor. That's our proposal. What's different from yours? First, to the height of the rent. What do you think? The banking sector will actually decide on this, the private sector that undertakes to speculate through this management. What do we say? Maximum of 1/3 of available income and the amount chosen by the municipal authorities and corresponding, in other words, to the commercial rents of the municipality, the neighbourhood community. Secondly, the same as the repurchase price. At what price will they buy the house after twelve years, Mr. Stakoura? In honor, he says, who will decide what will be managed. But is that possible? Do you know a businessman who would ever make a leasing agreement for a car or a fleet of cars for his business or for her and would ever agree to sign the registration contract without predetermining the fee and without being predetermined what the purchase price of the car will be at the end of the leasing period? And yet, in the devastated small and mediumsized one, this is what you impose on him and I think that is an absolute shame. The third difference with our proposal is the loss of titles. We say he holds the property title and if he at some point tells the public management company, in bad bank, "I don't want another", "I'll go, I'll go to Australia" or "I found another way to live in another city, sell it", get a piece corresponding to the amount already paid back. That's not true to you. Negative of the debtor's share! The most interesting thing - I imagine other colleagues have said it, I have not heard it, but I am sure they may not have said it - is that the rental period under your own law begins, it is for twelve years, after three months it dies - beating wood - an uncle from America and inheriters some money and you go and say: 'I want to pay it back'. And they say to you: "You will give us all twelve years of rent." Are you all right? Mr. Stavura, is that possible? I can't believe if we had a cup of coffee together, you'd be happy for it. I just don't believe it. And fifthly, the non-exportation of value-added abroad. Let us all beat wood together - that things are going great in the next five, ten years we have recovery, they go up and the prices of real estate, people have incomes. What about this system of yours and the 'HRAKLE' and what is being introduced today? It's very simple: all the gains will go abroad. All the funds and the managers who have acquired these titles will cash out and make the money in Delaware, New Jersey, Cayman Islands, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, you know where these are going. Our proposal with your proposal is day after night, you will allow me to say. Now I'm going to the fifth important part. Article 17(3): I was rubbing my eyes when I was reading it. Take one case, let's call Thanasis, a man bankrupt, who two years ago, a year ago, had two properties, the real estate "one" and the real estate "two". He owed the tax office, owed the bank, the National Bank, Piraeus, Eurobank, Alpha, to tell all of them not to complain. He gave the property "one" to the state to pay off by tax and gave the property "two" to the bank to pay off with the bank. Okay, that's over. Your law comes and what does it say? If a third or fourth party is now coming and bankrupt Thanasis, because of a coronary, for example, the deal with the public is being revoked, i.e. the public loses the ownership title, but the bank is not. Is it possible to put the public in such a subordinate relationship with the bank? Sixth blow to the common mind - surely others have mentioned it - is confiscation to legal persons after a hundred and twenty days. And if it were confiscation! Where's the house going? He's going to - he says - to the state. But you did not tell us what part of the state, because I bet that it will go to the supreme, that is, to the lenders, that is to say, to the outside that goodwill will go when it takes place at some point. Seventh, for three years a poor bankrupt, small and medium-sized, has a shop. It's bankrupt with your law, 540 euros a month. The rest of you'll hold it on him for three years. Why not for thirty years, fifty years, years, eight years, three months? This is absolutely arbitrary. Once you got him what he's got and he doesn't have, if he's able to make more than EUR 540, normally what does a second chance mean? That's over. Three years are arbitrary and extremely abusive. Finally, have you considered the issue of social security for those who go bankrupt with this law? What happens when a small boy who had a shop for twenty years flew down the street and had nothing? It does not have 540 euros, it is unemployed, it will not have any objects or OAEDs. What's he gonna have? Have you predicted anything about this? It's the least of the problems, but it matters. Ladies and gentlemen, especially you who are still saying that with your memorials you have saved the country and that you dare today to present yourself as patriots, you are voting for a draft law that abolishes our national sovereignty over the rights of the individual. You have already dismantled our national sovereignty over the ADP, on public property. Now you do it on the property of the individual. You are worthy of the irony of history. The property of small and medium-sized enterprises will ultimately not be confiscated by the communists, as you have been warning them, but New Democracy is supposed to be in the name of liberal reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, you are still saying that with your memorials you have saved the country and that today you dare to present yourself as democrats, a few words about what this bill means to our democracy. Shall we start this conversation philosophically? What's a debt? It's a promise. It's not a thing. It's a promise. That's a debt. What about society? A network of promises of some economics, some politicians, some morals, promises from each and every one of us. Promise from your Prime Minister to the citizens, from us to our voters, from a commercial bank to the Bank of Greece or the state. Don't forget the IOU you sign for the bankers. It is a promise or a series of promises from borrowers, bank debtors, from the state to the citizen, and even the highly indebted citizen in a democracy. Because only Mr Shoeble thought that democratic rights were no longer valid for someone who went bankrupt. I hope you do not agree, at least not officially, with Mr Shoeble on this. What's the central bank doing? Let's figure out what a central bank does. Essentially issues IOU. This makes a central bank, i.e. promises, papers written on "I owe you", which the central bank deposits these promises on accounts held only by commercial banks at the central bank, which in turn issue IOU to the citizens, to the entrepreneurs, thus lending to them, who then, citizens, entrepreneurs, etc. They're trading with each other. In other words, money and debt, this "X" and "P" are no coincidence that it is common, because money and debt are one thing: in the context of a network of promises from everyone. bankruptcy is therefore a basic political concept and its management is a political process with huge moral dimensions. What difference between 2015 and 2014 - if you want - and today? Our state is more bankrupt than it was back then. We have lower GDP and a much higher debt. The only difference, the only reason why you can borrow at zero or very low interest rates is that the troika decided that because you were good children and you and the previous ones and sold the world's red loans, according to their orders, that they would sue the markets: "Don't be afraid, we won't go bankrupt." It's a political decision. That means debt-settling. To be able to borrow and substantially prolong our bankruptcy in the future at the expense of the country’s viability, you are selling everything. That's what you're doing with the bill today. That means debt-settling. A bankruptcy law is a political and moral admission, all of us, of all political groups, of a reality that, when the circumstances change - especially the economic and past promises of all of us to all of us that cannot be observed, restructured, re-scheduled, re-written, changed, because if you take it rather than have it. In a democracy situation, please tell me if you disagree with this, when the crisis makes it impossible to keep everyone's original promises to everyone, obviously everyone should have reason, equilibrium, for how promises are changed. Contrary to the authoritarian anti-liberal debt colony in Greece their own rules are written by the fewers themselves, by the creditors themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, as in 2010 you sacrificed the macro-economic viability of our country under the command of the French-German banks initially, so today under the command of the troika itself you are sacrificing what is left of the private wealth of the many in favour of the few. If you want to follow a neoliberal American bankruptcy policy you would limit the liquidation of assets to the immediate guarantees I described before. You wouldn't give the creditors and the knife and the watermelon. But you didn't want that. As a result, it is a bankruptcy law that kills any prospect of recovery at macroeconomic level for the medium-sized, while you prepare the fifth memorandum. I know that you are preparing the full refund of 100% of the tax advance from time to all that ruthlessness that makes even an honest neoliberal screaming. With your vote tonight you are deepening the generalised bankruptcy of this country. You're not helping with the country's recovery. You actually board and transfer values from producers to work people whether they are proletarians or businesspeople. From the producers of business people that actually produce things you transfer values to bankrupt bankers and predators funds. This is not a development move. You are intensifying the transfer of values abroad, which should be of value to be invested in the country. Of course, resistance to that is not just 'no'. We, Mera25, have already submitted to the consultation an integrated proposal for a law on all these issues, which is not at the moment. But why do I say that? Mr. Stavoura, take the draft law you filed in the consultation and the one that came to the House. They have nothing to do with it! You do not respect basic principles of parliamentarianism. You can't get into consultation a bill that's completely different from what's come here. We as a PART25 in consultation have taken our real response both to today's bankruptcy law - this abortion - and to the budget that you are preparing to bring. For tonight, a prediction is enough. Your bankruptcy law will be recorded in history as the first multiplier of the fifth memorandum. Rejoice! The fact that the Prime Minister chose not to be in this Chamber today, while we have a bill - a station in the history of the next decade - perhaps even many decades - that tells us one thing - to me at least - that you know what you are doing, is what the Prime Minister is doing. You won't even pick it up in the media. I'll bet he'll pass in the change. The most important bill of a decade, a 20-year-old, will pass on to the changeover. Why? Because you know what you're doing, you know what you're doing or at least the team around Mr. Mitsotakis knows. Closening, reading your law came to me something, a saying in mind that is not mine: Never render to conspiracy what is due to nonsense. But I also have to add something of mine: and never consider the adolescence of oligarchy to the property of the non-preferentials to be foolish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u162	We continue with the fellow speakers on the list. We invite Mr. Ljupe Athanasio from New Democracy to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after a difficult decade and despite the crisis in public health, which has a serious impact on economic life, it is drastically changing with today's bill how to deal with debtors. A single legislative text is created which brings together all the relevant provisions, and in particular achieves a comprehensive approach to the issue of all overlaps, legal and natural. For the first time, special importance is attached to prevention, many cases of debtors are prevented before reaching the point of total inability and termination of payments. If the debtor so wishes, the electronic warning mechanism shall be activated, which shall inform the debtor when it is at a risk of its economic potential. Another excellent tool in trying to prevent insolvency is the out-of-court settlement mechanism for debts to financial institutions, public and social security institutions. The mechanism is aimed at most natural and legal persons with a bankruptcy capacity with a total debt of more than EUR 10,000. In fact, it concerns even debt debtors with informative debts, provided that they demonstrate a reduction in their economic activity of at least 20%. Everything is done by simple and completely electronic processes, without the well-known delays we are used to, since the absolute time horizon for their completion is two months. For us to be successful in signing a restructuring contract, it is necessary to agree with the proposal to regulate the debtor, at least the majority of the creditors that are financial institutions and 40% of the creditors with a special privilege. The submission of the application shall result directly in the suspension of the enforcement procedure against the debtor's movable and immovable property. Public and social security bodies are also involved in restructuring, even by derecognising debts and with a huge payout horizon in two hundred forty instalments and a minimum of 50 euros. A large proportion of Greek data and a real protection of the first home for non-strategic malpractices is the provision for subsidisation of the loans owed. Those who have regulated their debts may receive a grant for five years for loans with mortgages or an addition of a mortgage on their first place of residence. The debt must not exceed EUR 135 000 per creditor for one person or EUR 215,000 for a multi-member family. Special care is provided for those who are characterised as vulnerable debtors who are unable to use these mechanisms. The vulnerable debtor, when declared bankrupt or at risk of auctioning his first residence, may apply for the transition of his home to an acquisition and redeeming entity. This is defined by the Greek State. The institution shall acquire ownership and lease the property for 12 years to the vulnerable debtor, who may receive a housing allowance. In fact, at the end of the decade the debtor can rebuild his residence. In Chapter II of the bill, improvements are made in the process of resolving the bankruptcy procedure. The amount of creditors who have to consent to the resolution agreement is more than enough to at least 50% of those with the special privilege and more than 50% of the other requirements. Each natural person now has bankruptcy. There is a more effective procedure before the bankruptcy court. For bankruptcys of a small object the court of peace is now defined. This category of bankruptcy provides for a new, speedy, electronic submission of the application, which, if no intervention is made, is automatically accepted after 30 days. The new arrangements provide a valuable second opportunity for those who go bankrupt. A fundamental change in the new bankruptcy law is the fact that the person who is declared bankrupt is not entitled to a profession. In this way it returns directly to the production process. In particular, Amendment No 528, which defines the establishment of a Special Coordination Office - a Recovery Fund - sets out the framework for the absorption of the resources of the European Recovery Mechanism. Finally, Amendment No 530 contains many important tax provisions, including the abolition of the solidarity levy for employees, professionals and farmers. Today's bill is an excellent sample of legislative initiative. It sets realistic targets and tackles with prudence and not punishing citizens. It enables debtors to continue to be active members of economic life and to be able to overcome the problems of overcompensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u164	We thank Mr Ljupi and thank him for keeping time. Mr Kouvelas Dimitrios has the floor from New Democracy. Then we will give the floor to Mr Papathanassis, the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, for a short time of intervention, and then Mr. Dionyssis Stamenitis will speak. Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a very critical bill which concerns thousands of vulnerable households, workers, professionals and businesses, who expected it as a mother from heaven, as a really second opportunity to be able to regulate debts on the basis of their real potential and, above all, to join a social law and permanent framework for protecting the first home, within a very difficult global economic and health environment. In practice, this draft law achieves the tripartite: Preventing against the threat of bankruptcy, addressing with improved and quicker bankruptcy process and restarting needed by a fierce debtor in order to make a new start in his economic life. The main points of the bill: First, the second opportunity is a permanent programme without the expiry date. Secondly, an electronic early warning mechanism for debtors is being established in order not to become in a state of default. The so-called 'Goodness of healing, prevention' is thus implemented. Thirdly, the possibility of bankruptcy is also provided to natural persons, while speeding up proceedings by preventing bankruptcy. An out-of-court mechanism is being introduced to repay debts up to two hundred forty instalments for debts to banks, loan managers, but also for taxation and insurance funds, i.e. the public. Therefore, if the debtor pays off his debts, he saves his entire property and not only his first residence and at the same time protects his bank accounts, his wage, pension, his income in general. Fourthly, even for the first time, there is protection for the informers, the so-called 'green debtors', i.e. the citizens who, during the years of the crisis, put back on the national economy by meeting their obligations in a timely, systematic manner. Fifthly, vulnerable low-income debtors will be able to appeal to the new private acquisition and redemption body that is institutionalised, rented from this home before they lose it permanently in auctioning for twelve years, maintaining the right in this period to buy their residence, if they have the possibility. I would like to point out here, Minister, that it is worth the effort to take care of other socially sensitive groups, such as those who protect a disabled person, the multitude and the single parent families. The SYRIZA rapporteur has mentioned a lack of reflexes from the present government in the middle of a pandemic. I would remind you that this government introduced the GEOYRA programme just last July for vulnerable households and for consistent borrowers. Thus within about seventy days of its operation, a hundred forty - three thousand applications have been filed, while in the corresponding program of the previous SYRIZA government within thirteen months only seven thousand applications had been submitted. I think the numbers speak for themselves. On the other hand, do you have the nerve, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to be indicted for the protection of first residence, you who have left the Greeks expelled by effectively abolishing the Act Katseli by successive laws, who have abolished the protection of first residence? You who, by your laws, never gave a solution to the overall problem of overcompensation of households? Therefore, in practice the debts of the citizens continued to increase, eventually leading them to the loss of their property. You who made political careers by exploiting the agony of the Greeks and passing with an incredible convenience from the 'no house in the hands of a banker' in 'the most certainly electronic auctions are important not only for banks but also for development and social reasons'? You who supported seismicism without shame and eventually in your governance period became 26,000 auctions? You who would eventually convince the lenders to exclude the first home from the auctions, but as you know, you haven't even prevented this either? Ladies and gentlemen, since you spoke of bankers, does it really not surprise you that there were serious reservations in this bill on the part of banks during the consultation and in the committees, while, on the contrary, they were very warm when the SYRIZA bills were welcomed? This is a critical juncture and it is an undeniable need to save the existing productive fabric, to build a new and healthy social capital and, finally, to reconstruct our banking system, finally facing the enormous private debt. I am sure that, with a lot of work and a lot of small-scale misery, we will eventually succeed in achieving the target for the benefit of the last citizen as well. This bill will not just be a second chance, but it will be our final, last chance. I would therefore urge you to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr Kouvella, and the consistency in time. The Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Nikolaos Papathanases, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has committed itself to the Greek people - and it has done so - that, since the first day of governance, it will proceed to bold reforms and areas that will deal with holistic diseases of the past. This bill is another proof of the consistency with which our reform work is progressing. By exploiting digital technologies to simplify and accelerate processes, we are creating a modern and functional framework to support vulnerable households. We introduce innovative measures designed to protect our fellow citizens and help them regulate their debts. For the first time, a preventive electronic mechanism is created which will categorise the debtor's insolvency risk and warn the debtor in good time. We thus provide not only information but also support to debtors to cover or incorporate their debts before they reach the point where they cannot serve their obligations. The out-of-court settlement mechanism will enable natural and legal persons to regulate their debts to all their creditors with a simple electronic request. In this regulation, informative debtors will also be able to show a significant reduction in incomes or an increase in expenditure. The state no longer acts as a punishment but as a charity. This bill takes an important step towards protecting the first home and supporting vulnerable households. Both informed debtors and those who will regulate their loans through the out-of-court settlement mechanism can receive a grant for five years to repay loans that they have received having been mortgaged on their main residence. We enable our fellow citizens to protect their property. At the same time, we reform the bankruptcy framework, extend the bankruptcy capacity to every natural person and accelerate bankruptcy procedures so that it is quickly relieved of its debts. The debtor does not lose his licence to pursue his profession. Natural persons are completely exempted from their debts within three years of proclamation of bankruptcy, so that they can make a new start and rebuild property. The bankruptcy proceedings shall be simplified and accelerated by means of an electronic application accepted by the bankruptcy court within 30 days. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, there is a real second opportunity for honest debtors who, due to the overcompensation, were unable to recover. Our fellow citizens now have the possibility of making a new start without perpetuating and inheriting debts in the next generations. The state stands close to business because they are the oxygen that keeps the economy alive. We have also proved this in the management of the health crisis. It is no coincidence that Greece ranks in the first positions between the Member States of the European Union on mobilising the funds to deal with the effects of the pandemic. Our government's main concern is to speed up procedures. In this context of acceleration and based on support for businesses, we are reforming the state, restructured processes and creating a new business environment. We are organising the development law so that the process of subordination is drastically accelerated. When a circle closes now, we will have completed at least 80% of the investment assessment and will very soon reduce by 80% the time the investment projects are subject to the development law. We multiply all the audit committees and increase all evaluators and auditors. We are strengthening the faster maturity of PPP projects and upgrading the role of partnerships by planning the implementation of important projects. We are speeding up the authorisation procedures for strategic investment, so that we can dynamically place Greece on the global investment map. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all members of a society that must be protected and strengthened in order to remain coherent. The pandemic may have forced us to change some parts of our original design, but it has failed to prevent us from our original goal that is one, Greece re-enter development. Our government has the plan, it has the will to give the country the impetus to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u168	We invite Mr. Stamenitis Dionysius from New Democracy to Step. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the private debt in our country is a big and real problem. It troubles and afflicts the debtors themselves and creates a burden on the growth of the economy. However, in addition to its economic nature, the problem of the debts of natural persons and businesses is primarily a social issue with consequences for the daily lives of citizens, their quality of life and their prospects for the future. In view of these factors, namely the enormous debt that today reaches EUR 234 billion on the one hand and the individual problems that the Ministry of Finance creates on the other, the Ministry of Finance comes after a long consultation with society, the institutions, the parties of Anti-Population, to legislate a framework that is realistic, substantial, innovative, flexible and socially sensitive, which aims to put an end to the great wound of our economy and society. That's the reality. But, before I go on, I would like to make a comment on the content of the bill and a comment. We can see that this legislative initiative is, in turn, part of the effort which the current government is trying to combat pluralism, which in turn leads to evil. Many laws, dispersed provisions for the same kind of objects, overlaps, gaps, are phenomena that we constantly meet in Greek legislation and as we have said in other legislative debates, this in itself is an element that creates distortions and we correct it. It is therefore clearly illustrated in this case that the government's aim is to solve problems, not to put them under the carpet or to carry them over in time, substantially burdening the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law in its five parts contains a series of regulations which seek to resolve private debt hards through efficiency, transparency, flexibility, social equilibrium and justice. In particular, it is attempting to reform the procedures for the prevention and management of insolvency. The main objective here is to tackle effectively the chronic problem of the growth of private debt, which imposes restrictions on the country's productive potential and deprives significant resources of development-related activities. For the first time, the mechanism to prevent insolvency of natural and legal persons, which operates through the extrajudicial conciliation procedure or the resolution procedure, is legislated. It is an element that takes account of the innovations of the draft law. The use of new technologies to simplify and speed up procedures enables us to create a new operational and effective framework that is essentially in debt prevention services. The aim of this new model, particularly for legal persons, is to support, maintain viable businesses so that they continue to operate by maintaining jobs and limiting losses for all operators. A grid of procedures for exempting debtors from their debts is being established, where they are unable to cope due to financial difficulties and providing them with a second opportunity. A central idea of this arrangement is the logic of a new start, the possibility of a new principle of honest investors who encountered obstacles on the way to their rebooting. It is legal to incorporate all existing sub-institutions to regulate debts in a single coherent framework through uniform procedures. No more different tools, no more dazzling processes. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is compatible with international practices and is in line with the provisions of European Directive 1023 of 2019 on preventive restructuring, debt relief and incompetence in the issue of debtors, as well as measures to improve these procedures. In conclusion, Parliament today is called upon to vote on a legislative proposal which brings important areas to bear in the face of private debt. It has solved problems unresolved for decades, which have indeed been attempting to deal with other governments, but what we have been talking about so far has not been possible. It introduces major reforms and is part of the overall strategic planning of the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the reconstructing of our national economy, the liberalisation of the country's productive processes and the modernisation of the development model. Ladies and gentlemen, through a constantly changing new reality brought about by the emergence of the health crisis, our country stands upright and faces major challenges. At the same time, it corrects the bad texts and is released from the weights that kept it stagnated. In fact, it is more than just a simple finding that, if the appearance of the coronary had not stopped the upward course of the Greek economy, today we would be running at very high growth rates and would therefore be planning on different bases. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And you know that, we don't. The confidence shown by the markets in the Greek economy reveals this. A short time ago Greece issued a 15-year bond issue, with a historically low loan rate. It raised from the markets 2 billion, at a cost below 1.2% and a very large offer. So the New Democracy Government builds on solid bases, legislates by looking at tomorrow. Greece is moving forward. We must all contribute to this effort, and that is why it is an opportunity to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u170	Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to start from something different from the bill. Since the sanctions that would "bang" Turkey, we arrived yesterday to announce that "ORUCS RUSS" will now be seen from the beaches of Rhodes. It's 9 miles from Kastelorizo. So will you tell us what your red lines are? When are we going to see honestly sanctions? When will Greek diplomacy really deal with this problem? When will we be able to have a solution to these issues? Because the national issues are dominating and the national issues today are the ones that concern citizens, as is the health crisis for them, but above all the economic crisis. And in this economic crisis, you come to bring in a bill whose title is obviously misleading. This is not a second chance. It should be called the 'cannibalisation of businesses and the sudden death of households'. Is that too much of a thing I'm saying? A bankruptcy code must ensure the possibility of a new economic start, without the insurmountable burdens of the past and under conditions which will allow and facilitate the reintegration of those who are overdebted to economic and social life, while for enterprises the main aim is to prevent bankruptcy and to save and rescue the company when, in particular, its bankruptcy will not lead to a better satisfaction of creditors. This 'exhaust' legislation which we have in our hands and which you brought us to vote for seems to succeed? No, of course not. This is the first time that there is provision for the bankruptcy of natural persons, in fact without their initiative, but creditors, i.e. banks, and in accordance with a process in which the banks are manipulating. The process of liquidating citizens' property as a whole is speeding up, and it does not stop there. It's still going further. It's a regulation beyond all economic logic. It commits the incomes of the bankrupt citizens for the next three years, what exceeds 611 euros a month, leading to economic suffocation for citizens. Those who are not in the category of vulnerable households always forget about their homes. You'll say, yes, but the vulnerable are protecting them, letting them stay at home. The answer is no, because, firstly, it is not entirely clear what rent the private body will rent them, and if these vulnerable people, with EUR 7 000 a year of income, will be able to respond to this rent. Of course, you say 'we will finance the rental allowance'. You found a way to fund the banks, because you wouldn't have given the people the money. The banks directly will give them to these economic operators. The second is that everything they have paid for their home is lost and the chapter that has been paid. Thirdly, if they don't pay three rents, they lose their right to buy and leave home forever. And when the 12-year period is over they will have to buy their home back to commercial value without calculating what they have paid for the loan until then and without the rent being calculated as part of the repayment. Really, what vulnerable household will ever be able to find the money to buy after twelve years? What financial logic does it say that the rents paid by a person cannot be taken into account, at least in one part of them, in the repurchase capital? And what bank will this natural person lend for the buy-back? It is obvious that these vague forecasts simply act as a fig sheet to have something to say to your voters. Do you think that under these circumstances citizens are given the opportunity to start a new start? Or are you just giving them the charismatic shot by creating for the first time in time for bankrupt citizens? The same and worse fate holds the law for business as well. It substantially accelerates the process of bankruptcy and liquidation of debtors’ assets at the initiative of creditors. In simple terms, companies will one day cease to exist because creditors will have chosen to canvass and divide their assets. Besides, there are no random references to "zombies" operations, nor is the Pissaridis report talking about business mergers, because small-sized ones do not serve the country's development model. But, Mr President, I would also like to refer to an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Shipping. The sloppiness with which the Ministry of Maritime Affairs legislates, especially in such a critical area, such as the country's coastal network, I would say that it is unprecedented. Even the forecast for the budget is shown by the report by the General Accounting Office of the State that it is a gun in the air, 20 million. We have said many times that a strategic planning plan for the coastline must be served, particularly in these circumstances. What did we see? Delay in dealing with the problem and many times islands have been in flaws... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. ... during the summer in the service of the network and financing of the lines, in a way that had no opinion from the competent body, the Council for Maritime Transport. We therefore say in this proposal for an extension that no direct delegation can be made by decision of the Minister alone. There should be assent from the Coastal Transport Council. Today we need to know what criteria will be given to these 20 million and what bodies the network will be planned. Is it going to happen with the Ottas? Is it going to be with the ferry companies? And in paragraph 4 we also see the terrible fact that expenditure, which will not have been approved by the Court of Auditors, is legalized if the routes have been made until the Court of Auditors has been rejected. And I ask you, Mr Staikora, that you, too, have the responsibility of the General Accounting Office of the State: How can these costs be paid? How are they foreseen in this amendment? In conclusion - and I thank you, Mr President - I would like to say this: Today we are experiencing a threefold crisis at national, health and economic level, you are choosing to go bankrupt society and citizens. So we are not asking you to vote against the bill. We're asking you to withdraw it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too. Mr Zebplis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this government would still want to bankrupt the country for practical reasons would be absolutely impossible. Mr President, in the well-known renaissance work of François Rambelie, when they ask the pluralist pluralist when he will pay off his debts, he answers: In the Greek calenda. Besides, if you owe someone, he will be unreservedly begging God to give you health, happiness and long-lasting in fear of losing the loan that he gave you. That is how things are in Greece, with regard to the complex, long-term and ultimately incomplete bankruptcy process, which creates serious market distortion, so that debtors are unable to settle their debts and creditors are deprived of a credible threat. In general, you would say that the non-resolution of private debt drugizes the development of the economy and undermines social cohesion. As the former Finance Minister rightly said: 'If banks cannot grant new loans to new couples, then we have a serious social problem'. These issues come to resolve holisticly and systemically the present draft law which simplifys and speeds up the refinery process of the private debt. This is being attempted by a balanced policy mix that combines economic efficiency and social sensitivity. It is characteristic that the bankruptcy provisions have so far been aimed solely at satisfying the lender, without prejudice to the debtor's fate. On the contrary, this draft law, which has been based on the principle of leniency, introduces a new philosophy. He treats the debtor as a patient who must at all costs save him. So it protects him in the first stage with the mechanism to prevent and avoid insolvency and excessive overcompensation. Subsequently, he attempts to rescue him by means of the favourable procedure for the out-of-court settlement of the debts of both natural and legal persons who can reach two hundred and forty instalments. However, if it cannot regulate its debts over this period of twenty years, the draft law is reinstated as it provides for the first time natural persons with a second professional opportunity to rebuild property. To date, the economic downturn led to existential despair. He went down the next generations. It was equivalent to what was stated at the gate of Dante: "Without hope for return." Accordingly, provision is also made for representatives of companies to make a new start more quickly. Also, for vulnerable households, significant support is provided in a consistent, stable and comprehensive manner to protect the first home. However, despite the fact that the provisions of the present law have a strong social character, the draft law takes unfair criticism mainly from two sides: SYRIZA and the banks. And it's not the first time they've been involved. Because I have to respond to what was said about abortions and cannibalism, I would like to say that SYRIZA and banks contributed to the electronic auctions for which in November 2017, the government then declared how important they are for the economy and society. They coincided after the end of the Katseli Act, preparing a gradual return to the normality of the auctions. SYRIZA and banks colluded when they sent MATs to the pacifist courts and introduced the peculiar offence to disrupt electronic auctions. It involved twenty-five thousand sixty-seven two electronic auctions. SYRIZA and banks coincided when the Report on Compliance of the Institutions provided for 30 thousand auctions by 2021. Finally, they harmoniously combined four million eight hundred and fifty thousand seizures in bank accounts. It is clear, then, that SYRIZA, from a party that was eminently associated with the anti-Auction movement, will eventually pass into history as the government that handed the people's family over to the nails of the banks, just to get the credit of the troika. Today, he is again gambling with the anxiety of the citizens. It is true, however, that from 80% of the value of the property paid by the debtor by the original Katseli Act it was enough to pay with the latest law of the SYRIZA government 120% of the commercial value of the property and indeed, without being relieved of the other debts to individuals, banks and public authorities. And that was socially unfair. And this created the unbearable burden that Arthur Miller describes in his book "The death of the merchant", which closes with the phrase: "Today, I paid the last instalment from home. And now at home there is no one." That's when you don't get the second chance and you have to exchange a whole life for debts and liabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u174	Mr George Amyras is called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called on to discuss and vote for this draft law by the Ministry of Finance, a very important bill regulating private debt and, at the same time, gives a second chance to borrowers. What kind of circumstances is that? This is done in conditions of real economic and social global upset. The pandemic of the coronary lies between us for eight months now and we must legislate with our minds, not only to safeguard public goods but also public values, namely housing, health, education and the safeguarding of work. That's exactly how we legislate today. Greece is in an environment where, for the last one and a half years, it has been recovered from its international credibility, which has unfortunately become a rag - I am sorry to use this expression - in the days of SYRIZA. On pandemic, for example, the day before "Politico", this top magazine wrote, assessing European leaderships and how they faced the pandemic "for Greece of our hearts". Because Greece, as "Politico" wrote, among contributors, powerful, for example, the migratory crisis, but also the Turkish invasion of the Eastern Aegean, has shown it to succeed - and it manages - much better than most European countries. But let go of the international press. Let's go to the front of the economy. Yesterday, the country came out on international markets, came out for a 15-year bond, asked for 2 billion euros from international markets and offered EUR 17 billion at the lowest interest rate we have ever achieved from a recommendation from the Greek state in such foreign international borrowings, 1,18%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u176	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u177	And the ten-year bond, Mr. Poppa, which I don't know why you're protesting, has reached 0.8% interest rate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Pappa, don't take off the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u179	I imagine, Mr Pappas, you will not disagree that it is a very positive development that MICROSOT brings hundreds of millions of investment in Greece, and I hope that you too will think it is right and we will support the advent of AMAZON in Greece. But, of course, in SYRIZA days, you were listening to investments and made pyramids. You did not know how to manage them or how to welcome them. All you knew was from the outset to tetroborate - see ports, see 'FRAPPORT' - and then the tail on your legs takes the troika and sign. Let's go down. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, does anything tell you that Greece will get from the Recovery Fund from Europe most of the money in proportion to its GDP from any other European country? He tells us a lot. Nevertheless, we have the private debt bomb in our hands: EUR 234 billion is what private individuals, natural persons and businesses owe to banks, tax and insurance funds. It is 106 billion debt to taxi, 92 billion debt to banks and 36 billion debt to the insurance funds. What would be the solution? Would it be the solution to address this time bomb the seismic, which SYRIZA had done in 2015 election sail and then, of course, turned with the engagement? So remember - and here is Mr Tsakalotos confirming this - that in 2015, 2016 and 2017, due to the overtaxation imposed by the SYRIZA Government on the Greeks, we had an increase in the debt to tax of EUR 1 billion per month. "The debts of the Greeks in the days of SYRIZA were "invented" by EUR 50 billion. They're evidence from the Treasury. Was it also a solution to 'no house in the hands of a banker', this easy slogan? Yeah? Then, please, why are you afflicting your former partner, Mr. Lafazani, in court and running in court because every Wednesday he went outside the notary and complained about the electronic auctions that the SYRIZA Government had allowed? There were twenty - five thousand sixty - seventy - two house auctions on SYRIZA. Or would it be the solution to follow what you were saying, but did you do exactly the opposite, for the crows, the funds? I would remind you that by two your own laws, that is, SYRIZA, L.4354/2015 and n. 4389/2016, you formed the so-called purchase of debt management companies. The truth, then, is that in previous years there was no serious protection for borrowers. Katseli was a first step, but, firstly, he only dealt with debts to banks - neither with taxes nor with the insurance funds - and, moreover, was to a large extent perforated, since one out of four borrowers who enjoyed the protection of the Katseli law was a strategic poor payer. Should I say about the Starfleet Act of 2017? It was the big fiasco. All of them were included in this regulation on the protection of borrowers. There were two thousand two hundred cases. To say about the next law that replaced Katselis, the law - I will say - Drasakis, because we have been left in mind here by this step of the then Deputy Prime Minister of the SYRIZA Government, Mr Drasakis, that by July 2019 they were supposed to be part of your regulation of thirty thousand borrowers. There was no application until July 2019. It was the big fiasco. Then until the deadline expired, they applied to enter the law of Drasakis a thousand three hundred sixty-eight borrowers. Ladies and gentlemen, just to say it in the four and a half years of SYRIZA only three thousand borrowers enjoyed protection against their creditors. In a new Republic now, for 15 months now that we have the country's governance, we have four hundred and twenty thousand cases of loans now regulated and protected by debtors, two hundred thousand loans, because they were directly settled with the banks, because we have formed the right environment, we have made blocks and hundreds of two thousand applications that were included through the GEOFER programme for protection and, indeed, with a dosing subsidy for nine months. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am sorry, Mr President, that I have longed, I shall end immediately - the Japanese have a saying: 'Let you drop seven, get up eight times'. This spirit is also a sign of the present draft law. We must give a second chance to the people who have fallen into the years of crisis, draw them back up, continue their lives and their jobs. We will do so, the Members of the New Democracy, because we will be voting in favour of this second opportunity for Greeks and Greeks. I invite you to do it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u180	The following is followed by Ms Anna Euthymou, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is attempting to tackle the private debt issue, which is objectively unresolved. This issue has been attempted by the SYRIZA Government, too, but without the expected results, and I will refer to that below. However, because of the situation our economy finds itself, it is now imperative and imperative to resolve it, because, otherwise, two things can happen: either once again, we are going to recapitalise banks, which is absolutely unavoidable for Greek households, or the implementation of the Spanish model with the tragic consequences for households and, in general, for social cohesion. In order to avoid these two harmful solutions, therefore, the Ministry of Finance with this bill is trying to find effective ways of regulating private debt by introducing several positive provisions, to which the previous Members have referred in detail. I will focus on my speech on some reforms of the bill that are introduced for the first time. Firstly, a preventive mechanism is first introduced in Greece for the early warning of the citizen in the context of prevention, so that he does not lead to insolvency proceedings. In other words, the debtor is warned for the first time so that it does not become insolvent. Secondly, an integrated and fully automated framework for dealing with solvency is introduced through the out-of-court settlement mechanism, which for the first time also includes natural persons, but the whole process is finalised from beginning to end through an electronic platform. Thirdly, it is a significant intervention and a reward for informed debtors. It is very important, because these people with sacrifices personally and familyly have been able to serve their loans to date and so they need this reward. The Government has already done so by means of the “GEOFHYRA” programme, it does so in Article 7, where it is provided for in these informed debtors who have some proven loss to be part of the regulation mechanism, but also in Article 28 again for them, where there is evidence of any damage under specific conditions, they may receive a subsidy for the repayment of the mortgages received for principal residence. Fourth reform: The person who is bankrupt does not lose his license to pursue his profession although he is given the opportunity to rebuild after new property. Fifth reform: because today much has been heard in Parliament's House of Strategic Policies, this bill aims precisely at identifying the strategic poor payers with appropriate cross-checks and removing banking tax confidentiality. I shall refer to SYRIZA's allegations on the protection of first residence in his day. Our position is that the SYRIZA government has abolished the protection of first residence with Law 4592/2019. SYRIZA's rapporteur in committee argued that we had a law, the Katseli Act, as it has been amended and replaced by the SYRIZA Government with another transitional law, Law No.4605/2009, and thus claims that the first residence has continued to be protected. I will of course not focus on the intentions of the government at the time to bring in a structured plan for red loans and for the protection of first residence, because these are intentions and intentions cannot be assessed. Because the SYRIZA rapporteur told the House today that the outcome and work of a government are judged by the legislature, so let's see what was legislated in this transitional law. A very limited protection of the first home was legislation, because the criteria and very strict conditions were very precise. Thus the " umbrella" of protection from the law of Katseli, as amended, was drastically shrinking. Let's see the substance of this piece of legislation, that's where the numbers will speak. By 31-12-2019 only a thousand six hundred eight applications had been made, so, in fact, what protection of the first residence are we talking about in governance SYRIZA? For almost zero. I would like to remind you, of course, that in the case of the enforcement of the SYRIZA Government has legislated and put it first in the satisfaction of creditors to banks and then the public, insurance funds and workers and of course it has returned by amending and introducing the workers' over-benefit, but they still remain under the banks, the public and the insurance funds. Because we are talking about workers and I have a specialty in Labour Law and there has been a lot of hearing today about workers' compensation when the company, the company, and the validity of the complaint, I am tabling the old law on the record which shows that there is no change in relation to the new bankruptcy. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Before I close my speech, I would like to point out that, following the banks' recapitalisations in our banking system, the conditions should certainly have been more flexible, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. Minister, Mr Staikora, I obviously know your interest and know that you are pressing for the conditions to be flexible. I would also like to ask you and the Government to help to make the loan criteria as adapted as possible to the current data of the crisis and of the coronary pandemic as they form. I stress small and medium-sized enterprises because they play an important role both in the economy and in the labour market. They produce 63.6% of value added and 82.5% of employment, above the European average in both these sectors. In conclusion, I am voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u182	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not at all surprised that Mr Mitsotakis decided not to be here today, to abstain from today's debate and from voting on an abominable bill for thousands of households and businesses, for hundreds of thousands of candidates who are poor, younger than their government. I am not surprised that Mr Mitsotakis has been running the country for sixteen months from the control room of a well-known propaganda mechanism and always ensure that he avoids confrontation with the crucials and, above all, with the arguments on your part. It always makes sure that the invisible editor of the information changes a matter in hand where he is not taken and constantly reproduces the virtual reality of a government that wants to be credited whatever positive is in that country on the one hand and on the other hand a useless society of unpunished citizens who, with their irresponsible behaviour, break down what is good for this government. It has become funny and it would be laughing - if it were not entirely challenging - that from morning to night we hear the same line of indictment of citizens everywhere. You told us in the spring that you saved us from the pandemic, that we owe you thanks that we exist, and in the summer you even organized snakes in Santorini to return to normality, and today we have more than eight hundred cases every day, and unfortunately over five hundred deaths. The public hospitals are under very high pressure again, because in the meantime you have not even done one intake of permanent staff for doctors and nurses in public hospitals, because in October 2020, despite the pandemic, the National Health System has been working with less personnel than it has been in this past year. And who is responsible for all this? But the irresponsible citizens, the irresponsible young people who go to the squares at night and are over nine, but at the same time students have to go to their ranks in the morning and be over twenty-five. Now we have learned by the Minister's mouth yesterday - a way of saying - that it is the fault of the irresponsible anti-fascists who protested outside the appeal court for the condemnation of the Golden Dawn. Of course he cannot hide, he cannot hide his discomfort from this large concentration, because the water cannot be found. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But tell me: At the same time as your concentration outside the courtroom, is it not your fault that six months after Lockdown every morning you let tens of thousands of people conspire in public transport, public buses and metro for six months, in Thessaloniki, in Athens, in the big cities? You didn't find a solution to increase the routes to dismantle trains on the subway and public buses. Look at this. Unfortunately, it was not the invisible editor who cuts off these things - nor a similar report, but I want to present to the House today some pictures of our everyday life, images that a colleague of mine has just taken on one of the metro lines of Athens. I'm tabling them in the Minutes. So here's what the picture is. Here's what the picture of the crowd is. Here's the picture of people stacked like sardines inside the metro trains. [[At this point, the President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned photos, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have been calling you months to increase the routes. Again, the unexploited Mr. Georgiadis came out on a show the other day and said: "What can we do with the extra buses? Lost money!" And today on the same line was the Government spokesman with ridiculous arguments, such as that in buses and metro trains there is no danger of public health. The virus only sticks where the people are responsible. Where it's responsible, the state doesn't stick with the virus! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So yesterday I went to Kozani, the first regional unit that entered level 4, that is, the highest level, red, as we say, and is in second lockdown, the other unexecution now, the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, was there a few days ago and what did he do? He showed with the finger four catering companies, four businessmen in charge of Lockdown in the county, without any evidence, of course, without a sense of responsibility and with absolute cynicism. I must admit that you have now exceeded the limits of cynicism and irresponsibility. And this tactic of social automation, you've taken off, it's gone to other levels, on oriental levels! So the same man, who, from what we learned, pressed with his natural presence the Committee of Scientists in collaboration with Mr. Aygeakis, while the pandemic is fading, giving the green light to the presence of fans on the field, had the courage to show with his finger as the person responsible for the lockdown in Cossanis some coffee and sobbladians. But that is the strategy. It's not all random. It's a strategy. But you should know this strategy cannot take you away, because with social automation, as well as with that absolute that you have achieved - and congratulations on it - with the media, with the "Petsa" lists and with all the effort you have made, you have created RISEN conditions, but not with a channel like then, but with a lot of it. We are talking about the 'HENEN' information! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And social automation, but also "YENERATION", let me be allowed to neologize, the information will not get you better, the boomerang will turn you around, because you don't understand one thing: No matter how much you hide, no matter how much you distort reality, as long as it doesn't only improve, but it gets worse, the reality itself will be the one that will be chasing you. Take the economy, for example. I read the day before: 80% below tourist income in August, six hundred thousand less recruits in the first nine months of the year, hundred and thirty-three thousand unemployed since the beginning of the year. How can all this be hidden under the rug, Mr. Stakoura? How can they hide? How can you proud Macedonians, who didn't lift a fly to your sword, but now you're telling us that our only disturbance will be if the Turkish ships attempt to search under six miles on the Greek islands? And today there are new NAVTEX and new provocative statements, that research is also on southern Crete. How can they hide all this? Doing that they do not exist, because the titles in most newspapers and sites are that we have allegedly given Turkey an ultimatum? We gave her a ultimatum in December to do what she wants until December, but by December! Because in December we will give them another ultimatum until January and then until March and so on! How can they hide all this? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do you not understand that the country cannot sink into cases, that the economy cannot sink into the recession, that it cannot sulle the "ORUC REIS" undisturbed six and a half miles from Kastelorizo, and at the same time you can not only do that there is nothing going on, but bring to the mollusc bills in the House about how you will poor the Greeks? At a time when we sink from the pandemic, from the economy, from the crisis in foreign policy, the crisis in security, all you care about is how the Greeks go bankrupt and how the first housing and the property of the citizens will be liquidated. While the country needs a new social contract, we say, at the time when social protection policies are needed, to stand up, to stand up and move on, you come to the muds not for a new social contract that society and the people need, but for another contract, to execute your contract with bankers and funds. Because that's what you're doing! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] While Greeks and Greeks sink into insecurity, in economic crisis and see that this crisis threatens to take their jobs and income, while they see that pandemic threatens to take their lives, Mr. Mitsotakis what he is doing? He's working on how to get their home, first residence and property and how to get as many as possible into bankruptcy. Because that's what this is about. Look, words are circumcised. I will tell you one thing: eight years hard, years of memorialism, cruel austerity, harder than anywhere else in Europe, and the first residence has been protected. And today that the economy and society are, unfortunately, going back into crisis, Mr Mitsotakis comes through Mr Stakoras who is present - because Mr Mitsotakis does not agree to be present - to go bankrupt by law to those who have endured the crisis, those who have succeeded, but those who are expected to be beaten in the next period. You submit a bill that is cut and sewn to the wishes of the banks. You are today thinking of the interests of a system that supported you - it is the truth - and it supports you - that is also the truth - and you hope that it will support you in the very difficult things that are coming. And the perception of this bill, like every aspect of your policy, is that it is the citizens' fault. Who's to blame? The citizens are to blame both for the pandemic and for this and for the economic crisis and for the bank red loans. It is the fault of the man who took a housing loan during the years of plastic growth and did not predict that in five years the economy will collapse. It is the businessman who took a business loan to extend his business, but he did not make it, because within a few years he was found with carpets, he was found with HICPs who did not take the loan, found with multiple taxes, and found himself with half a customer. But it's because he didn't see it coming. It's the father who took a loan and put a mortgage on his home to study his child. It's the shopkeeper who's been trying to stand up for the past few years, but he can't get out of the banks, because they don't give him a penny of smugglers and then he's smashed off the debts. It's their fault! It's individual responsibility here too! So let's finish them! And I understand, Mr Staikoura, that you want to go through all this in the mosquito, but I cannot help but point out - most of us have been here all these years, these critical years, I am a MP since 2009 - that today is a historic moment. And it is a historic moment, because in the eight years of memoranda there have been endless negotiations with the troika and with the lenders of all governments, endless hours of threats, conflicts on this issue of first residence, and yet protection has been maintained. Not even Samaras calmed her, not Papademos! No government, not only our own, no government in circumstances of extreme external pressure did what Mr Mitsotakis is trying today, and even in his absence, in secret, like a thief! He brings and votes without having any memos, as much as the memos had not been able to enforce. The worst of all, however, is that you are doing this in the midst of a pandemic and in the midst of a new economic crisis that already creates a threat of a huge number of padlocks on the market in businesses, which already creates new armies of unemployed people and new generations of red loans. These generations will not be one of them until yesterday. It's one of the middle-sized businessmen and middle-sized households yesterday. It's just this middle class that believed your fraud and your election lie. Who thought you'd support her. And you come now not only to leave her unprotected in the crisis, but to take her and her fortune, to bankrupt her. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your argument about strategic malpractices is at least challenging, especially today. I would like to ask you, Mr Staikora, who will, in your opinion, be the new strategic bad payers? Will it be the workers who are now, i.e. the coroner, who are either fired or see their employment relationship change and rapidly reduce their income? Will it be them? Or not? Or will the new strategic poor payers be the businessmen who see their turnover nullified but their obligations to grow? But be careful. At the same time as these will be the new strategic mispaids, the real strategic mispaids in this place not only sweat their ears but once again drink to the health of the sucklers. Because the real strategic bad payers are usually glamorous businessmen, casino owners who go bankrupt, but they live in money, a challenging life. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They see their loans getting tired now. To get bored in the same challenging way by banks that have been recaptured by the stallion of the Greek people. Because the real strategic mispaids in this place are well-known shipowners who do not have the same treatment in their loans as the many anonymous small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that you now lead massively to bankruptcy. Only Piraeus Bank cut almost half a billion off the loans of known Greek shipowners. And now you come and say you're going to go bankrupt small and medium-sized businessmen, free professionals, money-launderers for 50 grand and 100 grand euros. Those who have been involved in the crisis and in the new crisis and cannot stand on their feet. And you call them strategic bad-payers on top? While battling majesty shipowners are usually benefactors, they are not strategic malicious payers. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide. One could not expect anything different from you. Because perhaps the biggest strategic mispaid in the country is your own party. It's New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis personally. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm asking you, Mr. Stakoura. How do you feel today when your party owes more than EUR 300 million in loans and anguish to banks, prepare to go bankrupt for 100 thousand and 50 000 people and legislate on the liquidation of their first home for debts of a few thousand euros? You're the strategic managers of the strategic bad-payers in the country. Not you. Your party. Some of you may be like your leader. Of course the banks themselves are. But I shall refer to this another time. Today is a historic moment. But right now, we won't let her through like this. Today the masks fall. In the midst of a pandemic, bring the toughest law for the weak and the middle class that did not come to the hardest years of the memorials. You are bringing him to the secrets by exploiting the pandemic, taking advantage of the special circumstances of the parliamentary procedures. We shall vote by far, by written vote and usually by the secretaries of the parliamentary groups or by a majority. You're also taking advantage of special conditions in society. But we will not allow you to do so. We will not allow you to put a tombstone in life and in the dreams of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens with a fast track process and secretly. That is why I ask you, Minister, even now that you withdraw this bill. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In most countries of the European Union, not only have they been speeded up but, because of the pandemic, liquidation and bankruptcy procedures have been suspended until the end of the year in which they will be re-expansioned. But here you go the other way around. Not only do you not suspend but speed up by changing the bankruptcy code so that natural persons and households go bankrupt. So I ask you to withdraw it even now. Or maybe I should say it differently. I give you a chance not to enter your name in black letters in the economic and social history of this place. Do not register your name in the thousands of auctioning of the folk first home, in the thousands of dramas that will come. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But to the extent that you are insisting - and from what I see you are insisting - I am, Minister and ladies and gentlemen, obliged to use the weapons that the Rules of Procedure give me on such matters as this. I would therefore like to inform the House that under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure we are putting forward a motion of censure against the Minister proposing this law an abortion. Against the Minister who recommends the law of bankruptcy and bankruptcy, even natural persons and households, the law of direct liquidation of their property, the law which, after eight years of protection within the memoranda, now comes to remove the protection of the first home, and even in the midst of a pandemic. [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] We will not let you demolish the protection of the first residence and go bankrupt the Greeks and Greeks. Mostly, however, we will not allow you to do it like thieves. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We therefore call on the President of Parliament in consultation with the Government to begin the three-day debate immediately. To have Mr. Mitsotakis come into Athens, who is hiding today. To come and explain to us, Minister. Explain why it defends you and what are the interests and reasons that impose in the midst of the pandemic to legislate on the lifting of protection of the first home and the realisation of the property of our weak fellow citizens. Mr Mitsotakis will come and you will apologize to both Parliament and the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u184	Quiet, quiet! All of this is foreseen. I will inform you what the Rules of Procedure provide for in this case. Rule 142: The House may decide to withdraw its confidence by the government or by a member of the Government - in this case - following a motion of censure. The motion of censure must be signed from 1/6 to 50, i.e. at least for Members, and must clearly include the issues on which discussion is to take place. The motion of censure shall be submitted to the President at a public sitting of the Parliament. If it is found that the proposal is signed by the minimum number of Members required, the House shall suspend its work for two days unless the Government asks that the debate on the motion of censure be opened immediately. We will therefore immediately find the right and the right number to submit the motion of censure, we will be interrupting for a short time afterwards, for the consultation that needs to be made, if the debate is to take place immediately or if the two days provided for in the Rules of Procedure are to be carried out. Mrs. Perifanou, has the motion of distrust been tabled? Not submitted. So let's keep going. The government has asked for the floor for a reply from the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagioras, on behalf of the Government. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u185	I must admit that I did not expect anything different from the position of Chief of Staff. And that's because he's used to us in such a speech. But he said heavy words that do not honor the country's public officials. He said about "project on mushrooms", when this bill is discussed for at least seven, eight months, for "contract with bankers", when banks disagree with the content of the bill or for "interest servants". I would just like to remind him of a few things. Definitely, Argits! It takes a lot of courage to place someone in this Chamber on this issue in this way. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u186	Watch your mouth a little!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u187	Please! Come on, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u188	Because you said to keep an eye on my words...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u189	So don't talk in ancient Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u190	I shall then use the exact words of the President of the Officerial Response. He said: As long as SYRIZA exists, auctions will not take place in Greece unless they do the auctions in a foreign country. But we will have trouble implementing it in Greece. And you did twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy two electronic auctions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You said 'no house in the hands of a banker'. And then the Minister came to say that electronic auctions are good for both banks and for social and economic reasons. You said of new seismicism and you abolished first home protection. And you said it was a debt write-off. All of this I'll testify to in the Minutes. Finally you went to the huge loss of Greek taxpayers as regards the recapitalisation of banks. I'm going to insist a little on protecting first residence. We did, but I see you insist on the same. The institutions have told you and you do not hear them: Protection of first residence in a horizontal manner does not exist in the country since February 2019, with the signature of Mr. Tsipras. Since February 2019, there is no protection of first residence. Since then, a programme for a limited number of borrowers has been set up for a limited period which the current government has extended and strengthened with a second programme, which is the programme currently under way, the GFCF programme. So don't lie to the Greek people. Protection of first residence in a horizontal manner does not exist as of February 2019. Instead, what do we do? Firstly, we are protecting the first residence, now establishing it as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households. It's a permanent program. It doesn't last, it doesn't have a deadline. A comprehensive solution is provided to the problem of overcompensation of households. You've been told by institutions too. Secondly, an out-of-court mechanism is being established with repayment of up to two hundred forty instalments for debts to banks, loan managers and public authorities. This is how we provide a favourable, long-term and sustainable debt settlement to natural and legal persons. Third, state aid is provided for first-stage loans of vulnerable households for a long period of five years. So we help the debtor to cope with the overall settlement of debts and save his or her entire property. Fourthly, we provide for all debts to be discharged for persons unable to repay their debts. This is therefore the real protection of first residence. And I would like to say to the Chief of Staff Responsibility that we respect citizens, account for citizens, look into them in the eyes, but with modesty, and work hard in the field of health, education and transport, so that we can cover shortfalls in the past. I would therefore say to Mr Tsipras who had promised all this and did not do it and who abolished the protection of the first residence: Kritton speaks slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u191	He has asked for the floor to answer the Chief of Police and the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilis. He'll answer and we'll keep going. And I'm going to announce the submission of the proposal immediately after Mr. Kikilia's speech. Minister, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, the Minister cannot speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u193	He can talk. I see the right statement. Now I've got it in my hands and I'll make the announcements. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I'll announce it when I think I do!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, you are in breach of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Comrade, now I've got it in my hands. I haven't even read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u196	Read it in the House, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u197	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anything will change in the next five minutes. I have to reply to the Chief of Officerial Response only with information on the pandemic and the National Health System, a pandemic that arouses the country, Europe and the whole planet and, unfortunately, some people are working on it in an unacceptable way, but also incompatible with Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, let us come to an agreement. Amongst forty-eight countries of Europe, Greece is in the forty-sixth position in the case of every million inhabitants. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you have any kindness, just for two minutes. Thank you very much. Mr President, I would ask you to intervene very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u199	Please! He has the floor. It has to end. The procedures will be carried out properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, you have given him the floor in breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u201	If you'd let him go, it'd be over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u202	That's not the point, it's the process. The procedure must be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u203	That's the point. Let me handle the procedure. Please have a seat. Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, we are telling you about the substance. Have you received the motion of censure? If you have received the document with the motion of censure, please tell the House and not give the Minister the floor from the back door! It's unacceptable what you're doing. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u205	You must understand that you are now delaying the procedure of the motion of censure you have just tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u206	You insult the Rules of Procedure. Have you received the text against the government? You must read it now, Mr President! You're breaking the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u207	I'll read it as soon as the Minister who had taken the floor has finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u208	Yeah, but here we have a disagreement. Let's untie her, no voices...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u209	We'll solve it, but not until it's over. It concludes and we resolve it on the Rules of Procedure, we shall also discuss the Rules of Procedure. Come on, Minister, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u210	He'll have three days to talk about it. Mr President, you have made a mistake twice, you have violated the Rules of Procedure twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Vitsa, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. This coconut has to end!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u212	Excuse me. The Chief of Staff Response says "we file a motion of censure" and you give the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u213	He didn't testify to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u214	But you didn't even testify!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u216	Well, not to play now, the motion of censure is a very serious parliamentary procedure to make all these speeches now. Mr Kikilias began to speak, he is delayed because you are putting matters in the oath of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kikilis is coming to an end. You have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure. You'll call him right after and we'll move on. Come on, continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that the country is in the forty-sixth place from the forty-eight in Europe as far as the cases per million inhabitants are concerned. The country is from 45 European countries in the 40th place of its deaths per million inhabitants. The country, ladies and gentlemen, has a total of ninety-three and fifty-three IDs right now from five hundred and fifty-seven left. The country, ladies and gentlemen, has another six and a half thousand subsidiary doctors, nurses and other staff. The country, ladies and gentlemen, has twice as many ICUs as it is, is approaching - that is, 12 to every 100 000 inhabitants, which means the average European. A term. The country, ladies and gentlemen, has multiple tests since the crisis started. Started with eight hundred tests, it's been over twenty thousand. The country has five hundred mobile units to do with primary health care. It has a hundred and sixty health centers that test, have triage, isobox for walkers with slight symptoms of COVID. It has reference hospitals and it has the ability to hospitalize our overcrowded fellow citizens. So, ladies and gentlemen, what one cannot question is the truth, that this government has done a hard job all these months and the results are measurable. And if here was still the Chief of Police, the obvious question would be one. We've put it to you too many times in the middle of a pandemic, you don't mean to understand it. We're all supposed to fight together, or so you say, to defend the value of human life. Does the Chief of Officer's Representation or any of you propose another health system or another country, any other measure, any other recipe better than that followed by our country, with better data, with more than multiple testing? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] In which country, ladies and gentlemen, have you seen something better happen to the citizen than is going on in our country? Because you have not had a response for this, and unfortunately for many months now the serious treatment that some of the officers of the Officers of the Pandemic have turned it into an opportunistic sliding tactic of those who are struggling, whether they are doctors, nurses, or other staff,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u218	Please let the process be completed, so that we can move on to the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u219	...I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way in which we should all embrace Greek society and support it once in a hundred years. It is a pandemic, it is a huge crisis of public health and it is not at stake for the party future of the New Democracy or SYRIZA or for the movement of Change or any other party, but for the lives of people. I would therefore expect - and we will be very happy to discuss this, if you will, in your motion of censure with the Minister of Finance, for three days here - to see from all of you either in the public record of the speech, in your conduct, or in the way in which you are moving, very serious and careful when we are dealing with the lives of our fellow people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u220	The Rules of Procedure have been raised. 'In accordance with Rule 67' - take note of a little - 'incidentally it is every issue that arises in the course of the parliamentary procedure' - we are in the course of a parliamentary procedure - 'and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure it prevents or affects the debate or decision on the main issue'. The Change Movement with the two signatures required, Mr Constantinople and Mr Loverdos, has asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure a few minutes ago. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, it does not have the responsibility of any party of the National Representation if a motion of censure is not submitted as the Rules require, especially as this Rule requires, the paragraph 3 of the article you have just read. The motion of censure has been announced with its political meaning. In one respect, and against an approach of reproach against an individual minister, the end result - and from the experience of decades - of strengthening it and not of reproach against it at political level. We are calling for the Civic Opposition to be respected and you, in the economy of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, are asking for the procedure to be interrupted before the sitting is set at the will of the Government and as the Rules require that we immediately begin the debate on the motion of censure or if we go into two days, we ask that the procedure be continued to take the floor for the President of the Change Movement. If you cut off the procedure for us, which we have had a whole week consistently in our criticism of this draft law, we will make your decision as a decision against us. I remember - and correct me if I am mistaken - that in the past several times when motions of censure were tabled against governments or ministers were not followed by the Rules according to the strictest of the letter, but by his economy. In other words, the debate was starting hours later and the necessary arrangements were made for there to be a parliamentary order. We invoke this experience, we invoke the need to interpret the Rules of Procedure correctly, and we ask you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u222	The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, has obviously asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the motion of censure which has been tabled does not just give the margin, but also the great comfort to all, political leaders, parliamentarians, to all Members for three days, to develop their views on this crucial issue, for this top issue, as described by the Chief of Officerial Opposition, a bill. So it does not make it difficult, it does not make it difficult, it does not create any precedents, to observe precisely the Rules of Procedure, as Mr Lovers said, because he is aware of the fact that there is no such thing in the past - in all cases where a motion of censure has been made, either to the Minister or to the government, immediately the meeting was interrupted, or to the President of Parliament - it had also been made to the former President of the House on a specific procedure - and the government has taken a decision immediately to hold the debate or to hold two days later. There is no precedent that leaves room for the debate to continue on the substance of an issue which is reasonably called for for a debate for three days. If anything was different, we would all be glad to see, within the limits or beyond the Rules of Procedure, that we should help not to fade opinions, not to deny parties the opportunity to speak. This is exactly the opposite, and I would say to them - and I think that would be reasonable - all the opposition parties who have been forged since this morning this bill, and the government itself, in order to restore whether they think they should not get the bill back, should all agree, and the government in a little while with you, Mr President, to tell us exactly when we are going to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u224	The government will, obviously, announce whether this will be done immediately or at the most in two days. It can't be done more than two days from now. However, do some fellow Members continue to want to speak on the Rules of Procedure, after Mr Voutsi's speech from the SYRIZA? Mr. Chaakalato? Mr. Vitsa?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u226	Me neither.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u227	Good. After that and without interrupting anyone, I would like to inform you that it has been received from the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, a motion of censure submitted by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It can be seen that it is the whole of the parliamentary group. The term of at least fifty Members is therefore fulfilled. 'Question: Proposal for distrust pursuant to Article 84(2) of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 142 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure against the Minister of Finance Mr Christos Stakoura. Mr President, While the pandemic is at the most alarmingly high point of its manifestation in our country and citizens are asking for immediate action to protect their life, health and economic standing, the Minister of Finance chooses to vote for the draft Law “Debt regulation and Second Chance” to be adopted in Parliament. The Minister of Finance has failed to support the employees, the professionals, the households. It has failed to financially support a plan to address the needs of the pandemic, even though it has received full funds. It recommends and implements policies that have brought the recession to our homeland before the pandemic crisis even occurs. Nevertheless, in the most irreversible way, a draft law is proposed which, if adopted and implemented, will lead to the unprecedented event of the bankruptcy of natural persons without a commercial status, that is to say, all those who should have been protected in the face of the upcoming social adventure. In contrast to the needs of society, it supports bankruptcy and liquidation as a solution, continuing a policy of favoring the interests of banks and their executives. This policy reminds us of how the previous crisis is managed, and it is certain that it will speed up and burden the pandemic crisis, bringing new, heavier consequences to those already experienced by Greek society. For this reason, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance submits a motion of censure, in accordance with Articles 84(2) of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament against the Minister of Finance Mr Christos Stakoura." The signatures of SYRIZA colleagues are followed, and it is obvious that all the signatures of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group are all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u228	The motion of censure was therefore submitted to the President at a public sitting of the House. It was found to be signed by the minimum number of Members required. We are now being called upon to see the length of the interruption in time to be decided by the House, but by listening to the government, which can ask for an early start from the week to the National Representation. I understand that the Government will represent the Minister of State, Mr Gerapitris. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Parliamentary Republic in Greece is shielded and the quality of the Parliamentary Republic is identified, in many cases, by the rights it grants to parliamentary minorities. Perhaps the most important of these rights, certainly the most acid from the means of parliamentary control, is the motion of censure. The motion of censure may, at the right dose, become a medicinal product for the state, but when abused, it becomes a real medicinal product for it. That is the case today. The Civic Opposition, which, for a long time, during the consultation of this bill, had nothing to say about this bill, in fact by putting matters only in the last few days, today, when the Prime Minister in a complaint to the Greek people intends to announce the measures that are to be taken to tackle the pandemic, while the national issue of relations with Turkey is under way, is currently being chosen by the Civic Opposition to use this weapon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u230	Please, please, please, my colleagues! We are in a serious process in Parliament, which you have taken the initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u231	The reason why, ladies and gentlemen, you do not sound in society is not the fact that there is an embargo on the media, as you think, in the context of a witch hunt. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] The reason for this is that you do not have the social and national responsibility to weigh things up and use parliamentary weapons in the way that will be beneficial for the country. In this context, since the Greek Government is always available in parliamentary dialogue and the Prime Minister has shown his respect for the parliamentary institutions - we, as you know, do not take a vacation, no weekends have been taken for vacations - you will sacrifice - but - and I know how valuable it is for you this weekend - you will sacrifice your weekend, because the Greek Government chooses, within the framework of Article 84 of the Constitution and Article 142(3), to give the necessary answers, both on the content of the motion of censure and on the issue that lies within the second chance bill, immediately tomorrow, using the option provided by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. And that's where there won't be any more fugitives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u232	Just listen to the procedure that was initiated immediately after the clarification made by the Government, made by the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetritis, for accepting the start of the debate on the motion of censure. 'Without prejudice to - says the Rules of Procedure below - the power conferred by the previous paragraph to the Government - that was the power announced by Mr Gerapetiti - the debate on the motion of censure begins - now - tomorrow, after a day, and ends no later than the twelfth night of the third day following the beginning of the third day, by roll-call vote, held in accordance with paragraph 3 of the previous Article.'. The debate which begins tomorrow and will be taking place three days by roll call will begin with the speech of two Members from those who sign the motion of censure. The other speakers shall be registered until the end of the speech of the two Members of the previous subparagraph. A motion of censure may not be submitted before six months after the rejection of a previous proposal, unless it is signed by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. The agenda will therefore be distributed at the latest this evening at the latest, according to the way the government accepted the proposal and will start a debate that can take place at the latest three days and will end with a roll-call vote. On the proposal, Mr Loverdos, I would like to say that once it has been found that the proposal is signed by the minimum number of Members required, the House is interrupting its work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u233	One question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u234	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u235	On the proposal I would like to ask something. There is reason to ask the government, which is politically important, whether the reproach remains in the person of the Minister of Finance or whether the government generalises it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u236	Unbelief, as it was evident, does not turn against the government’s conceived. Distrust remains as it was tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u237	So the government leaves reproach against its minister. It does not cover its Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u238	Distrust remains as it was tabled. The government has not made a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u239	This means that the government does not cover its Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u240	This will appear in the three-day debate. To God! Come on, Mr. Gerapitris, you have the floor. Minister, there seems to be questions, solve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u241	Mr Loverdos is well aware of constitutional institutions, perhaps more than anyone in this Parliament. Please withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u242	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u243	Because he knows very well that the Constitution in Article 84 gives the possibility of a motion of censure and against an individual minister. Therefore, this possibility was exploited by Census Anti-Civilization and tabled. Other interpretations do not go back to the process, Professor, and therefore keep it for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u244	It's your appreciation, Andreas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Gerapititi,...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-22-S1-commons.u246	Well, the conversation is over, Mr. Loverdo. The debate will start tomorrow at 18.00 a.m., three days - the maximum duration. You'll get the agenda later, everyone in his hands. Therefore, under the Rules of Procedure, the sitting is closed. Time 18.33 ́.
