ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's 8-10-2020 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACTICE sessions of Thursday 8 October 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau in respect of the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Amendment of the Code of Greek citizenship, a new framework for selecting administrations in the public sector, the regulation of organisational issues of the General Secretariat of Citizenship and the General Secretariat of the Human Resources Government of the Ministry of the Interior, arrangements for the development prospects and the orderly functioning of the Local Government agencies and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the topical and urgent question issue scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday, 12 October 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 3/5-10-2020 topical question by MP Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Expansion of clean-up workers' contracts". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 21/5-10-20 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Problems of the students of the Department of Nursing - the Twin wall Annex". 3. The 19/5-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25, Kritona Arseni, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Invisible and cultural unions for the government at the time of pandemic." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Health, on "Direct awards of the COVID diagnostic tests -19 from hospitals in Thessaloniki to private laboratories". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 24/5-10-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The necessary maintenance work at the swimming pool of Chania and the immediate reopening of all the swimming pools". 3. The 20/5-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25, Kritona Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "Democratic inconceivable measure of exclusion from the televised training of students participating in the occupations". 4. The question asked by MP Preveza of the Radical Left coalition, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “In turmoil and reflection the educational community and parents with the conditions of primary and secondary education in Preveza”. 5. The 23/5-10-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Antagonism of the Municipality of Aristotle on Regional Unity (PES)". 6. The 15/5-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25, Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: "A cleaner per school is not enough to deal with the pandemic." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 11/5-10-2020 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ralia Christidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'Unrealistic economic destruction of the people of music'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that, with regard to the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday, 9 October 2020, the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 29/5-10-20 will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura. Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis will answer Question No 6/10-20. Question No 27/5-10-20 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Eleftherios Economou. The number 2/5-10-2020, 7/5-10-2020 and 22/5-10-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Questions Nos 1/5-10-2020 and 16/5-1-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou. Question No 18/5-10-20 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. First we will discuss the fourth question by number 29/5-10-2020 of the second question by the Member of the Elijah Movement of Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Ineffective the "GEFH" programme for weak borrowers'. The Minister of Finance himself, Mr Christos Stagiras, will answer. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when you abolished the protection of first home and the failed Law 4605 of the previous government, you presented to almost a feast, I would say, climate, the "GEOFYRA" programme, which would provide a sustainable solution to the weak borrowers who were at risk of auctioning the first home, of course, excluding the guaranteed loans from the Greek State, such as the loans of the firefighters of Elias and other regions. In the same festive climate a few days ago you announced that thirty-seven thousand applications have been submitted, without, of course, saying that more than thirty thousand are not complete after the acceptance of the waiver of confidentiality has been pending and we are talking about thirty-seven thousand applications, when the total housing loans to the banks only exceed seven hundred thousand and I am not talking about what has been transferred to the funds. The details of the Private Debt Management Special Platform show only the number of applications and not the arrangements reached, recalling the tactics that you adopted after 1 March 2020 when you stopped informing about the number of arrangements under Law4605 because of the very small number. Thousands of borrowers, particularly those whose loans have been denounced, are unable to come to an agreement with the banks, since they are asked to pay an advance of 2.5% to 5% of the total debt in order to settle for subsidized subsidies. The market price is falling 50 billion, unemployment is high, red loans are growing and we understand that the vast majority of borrowers who cannot afford to pay, cannot join the GEOGRAPHA programme. That is why the banks understood this, and that is why they went ahead with the suspension of first home auctions for weak borrowers, with the criteria laid down in the Ministerial Decision on the housing allowance, since it was certain that we would be led to mass auctions and there was no government decision. So I ask how many arrangements have been agreed so far and how many of them relate to information loans, late loans for up to three months, uncertain collection loans and denounced claims that relate to really weak borrowers? And secondly, if you will legislate to suspend first home auctions for vulnerable borrowers unable to regulate on these terms, as quite rightly have you legislated for those affected by the destruction of the 'January' or whether the suspension of first home auctions will be left to the good will of the banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, I would like to sincerely thank you for your stable, time-consuming, essential interest in this truly major social issue. In response to questions you systematically raise the matter and ask us as government to account. And this is a good practice, so you will allow me to tell you that we have never stopped informing citizens, society, you through Parliament about how the previous regulation of the SYRIZA government was going. Every 15 days in this House, I was giving concrete evidence. But you will allow me to begin with the first sentence of your question. You refer to your question that the current government has abolished the protection of first residence. You know this is inaccurate. The truth is that since February 2019 there has been no protection of first residence. Previously, there was indeed protection. With what law? With Law No.3869/2010, however, the law - we will also discuss it in the next few weeks and you know it very well - which had considerable gaps and had many weaknesses. I'll tell you two. He provided simple protection for the first residence, the entire property to everyone without any control, without any criterion, by only one application. Did the then legislator not see to it that there are certain security controls, which would benefit who? Strategic poor payers. You know that. We've given evidence and we'll give more in the next few weeks. Secondly, it provides the possibility of adjusting only the loans. However, citizens also need to regulate their other debts, especially those in the public sector. Thus, even if they received a regulation of their loan, they were in fact unable to serve it because of their other debts, which they could not regulate. In other words, Mr.3869/2010 did not provide a comprehensive, sustainable solution to the problem of the overcompensation of a household. Just what did he do? He transferred the problem to the next generations. It was then agreed at the end of 2015 by the previous government, the government of SYRIZA, that the termination of the protection of the first residence would be terminated. It was established by Law.4346/2015, which expired on 31/12-2018. Finally, in February 2019, the Government of SYRIZA abolishes first residence protection with Law 4592/2019. So, in order to reach agreement in this Chamber, on the basis of your first proposal, any protection of first residence from that date ceases. To come to your question now, the New Democracy Government did, in July, adopt the 'GEOFHYRA' programme, which provides support for state-aided loans of up to 90% and for a period of nine months, taking into account for the first time the consequent borrowers. Obviously, we don't get all the housing loans. There are also large-scale housing loans. We've always talked about vulnerable households. The debate in this Chamber, from all parties, has always been for vulnerable households. This programme replaced the former unsuccessful framework of the SYRIZA government. And yes, indeed, the evidence shows that the "GEVERA" programme has succeeded. In particular, according to the available data, thirty - eighty thousand, ninety applications have been submitted within sixty - five days. In the previous government's programme, in thirteen months - I told you for sixty-five days - seven thousand applications had been submitted. In comparison with the two programmes, I note that more applications have been submitted nineteen times before to date to one-sixth of the year. The Government even legislated and extended the deadline for the submission of applications to the GEYRA programme by the end of October. This is a real protection of the first home for economically vulnerable households with works and not with words. As far as the second part of your first question is concerned - I am taking over the first section in substance and I will be more concise in the second part - the loan arrangements under the programme will be carried out in the next few months, as the law explicitly states. At present, we are in the application phase. Then there will be the adjustment phase for loans and then we will proceed to the state subsidy phase. The estimated financial cost, as you will see - I am sure you have already seen - in the preliminary draft budget is EUR 108 million for 2020 and EUR 280 million for 2021. It is clear that those who regulate their loans will avoid adverse consequences and manage to regulate them because of the brave subsidy we give. Finally, to respond to your reference to those who received a loan guarantee from the Greek State, I would point out that according to the European institutional framework they cannot receive second state aid. The loans in question have therefore been excluded from the ‘GEOFHRA’ programme. Yesterday, however, we announced something, which I think is quite generous, and you and Civic Opposition in general asked for it. Debt to the tax administration arising from loans granted with the guarantee of the Greek State can now be adjusted in a hundred and twenty monthly instalments, with a phased exemption programme for increases and late payment interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister raised a lot of issues. On the issue of regulating loans such as firefighting in Elias, it is indeed a good development for a hundred and twenty instalments. I would like to say, however, that your first answer that this issue will be settled with long-term doses, signed by Mr. Psulakakis, is November 2019. It's been 11 months, and all these professionals have been excluded, due to this loose end, from the liquidity tools through the banks you announced in the previous period. But it is good that even now there is a desire to regulate. Secondly, you said about the imperfections of Law 3869, which enabled borrowers to take advantage of the law. I would like to correct you, if you will allow me, and say that this possibility was granted by the regulation of Law No 4161/2013, with the signature of the then Minister of Development, Mr Hatzidakis, and was not provided for in PASOK Law 3869/2010, which said that there was a decision of the Court of First Instance to fall under the protection regime. Let's talk about it the way it is. Thirdly, you compared the numbers of this framework with the previous one. I think the figures are completely different. But it is worth noting that you forecast 108 million in 2020 and 280 million in 2021, a total of 388 million. If my memory doesn't cheat on me, in July's plan you had predicted 518 million for the "GEOFYRA" programme, which means that you yourself in your initial calculations of how many of the borrowers will be and how much it will cost, you are already making a 35% cut. But you did not answer my basic question. Because it doesn't only matter how many applications. The fact that there are thousands of applications is indicative that there is a great problem with borrowers and somehow trying to find a hand or support. You have not answered how many arrangements have been made so far. And why am I saying that? Because under the law, it was foreseen that from informed borrowers within 15 days an adjustment is made and within 30 days it is compulsory for uninformed bankers to propose and get the borrower or reject it. So when we have almost two and a half months of the programme, the Treasury cannot have a number of regulations to tell us specifically how many people were able to support this programme. And you know very well that, according to the Bank of Greece's report, non-performing loans are 40% of the total loans, according to the figures of the Greek Banking Union, only 15% to 20% of the global loans were suspended due to COVID -19 and also according to the Bank of Greece's Greek Bank, the new red loans will reach 8 to 10 billion, some say they can reach all 15 billion. Central bankers are considering the possibility of a gradual return to the normal amounts of loans, as Mr Mylonas said the day before yesterday in the newspaper 'THES', and they are also studying a reduction in the dose of up to 60%, excluding those who have joined the GEYRA programme, and at the same time inhibiting auctions, which you have not done. I say again, you did it right for Cardica, that's a state role, but you don't do it as a whole for vulnerable borrowers. Therefore, it is right to support informed borrowers, who are the vast majority of those under the "GEYRA" programme. I would like to remind you that according to a GFCM survey, 33% of uninformed borrowers are unemployed and 20% of private employees are unemployed, and I say this because the financial situation is well known. The poor payers are 20% and if you believe that they can pay 5% of the total loan, people who are unemployed or private employees with job suspension or rotating work, so that they can make arrangements with the banks, so that they can be subsidized by the GEOYRA programme, obviously have not taken the data well. Two proposals: To make it easier for borrowers to enter into regulation with banks and not to have these strict conditions for uninformed and denounced and effectively excluded from this programme and the second to reintroduce the suspension, the Greek Parliament, at the initiative of the Government, reintroduces the suspension of first-resident auctions for vulnerable borrowers, just as described in the 2019 ministerial decision, adopted by the Greek Banking Union. This is a matter of the Greek state, it is a political decision of the House, and it cannot, I say again, depend on the goodwill of the banking system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I will make brief answers to what you have said and supplement the questions you have asked in your timely question. Firstly, next week - God - we will legislate all these arrangements that we announced yesterday, including the hundred and twenty instalments. We therefore intend directly to come a legislative initiative by the Government in this House to cover this part. Two. You spoke about facilities so that citizens can regulate directly with banks and loan managers. I've given you many times to the Greek Parliament and every month we make public on my Ministry of Finance's website how many arrangements for the citizens with banks and loan managers are made. At the same time as the citizens had submitted seven thousand applications in one year for the government's previous programme, in order to protect a small part of it, first residence, over two hundred and fifty thousand citizens - if I remember the number well, but the exact data I have given you - had bilaterally arranged with banks and loan managers. Therefore, this means that the previous period has given these possibilities and they must continue to exist so that the citizens can regulate their obligations. We did not make any cuts in the money or the sums we put into the state budget. Everything depends on how many citizens will submit their applications. Another program you don't have a sense of how many people will even submit another program when you know how many citizens come forward. We have also extended and if even more citizens come and apply for GEOFYRA, we will increase the state budget. But these are today's estimates and forecasts, estimates and forecasts! Third point. Repeat, we're in the application phase. After submission of applications, the phase of adjustment of loans is followed by the state subsidy phase. Let's not talk about the amount of red loans. We'll have the comfort to talk. No one can be satisfied with a height of EUR 65 billion in red loans today. This is a fundamental, serious problem that the Greek economy has. However, we are not the EUR 104 billion that we were four years ago. Finally, as regards your second initial question on the suspension of auctions for vulnerable economic groups, this is, as you said, already provided by the banks and loan managers by the end of the year. However, of course, what you did not say is that, in order to do so, there was a cooperation between the Greek Government and the financial institutions. After all, I would remind you that this was after the Prime Minister's announcements at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u9	Before it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u10	You will allow me to tell you that because I participated, obviously the Prime Minister announced something that had been agreed before, regardless of what the banks have done. In addition, the Government has legislated for suspension - you have raised it and I thank you for this - one year for auctioning and foreclosure on movable and immovable property of natural and legal persons in the areas affected by the 'January' region. With the above measures, and with the FYROM, the government is pragmatically supporting the citizens in these extremely difficult circumstances. In addition to these interim measures, however, I am actually making a bridge with what is to be followed in the next two weeks, with the bill submitted by Parliament to the Greek Parliament - the government will immediately establish the new framework for settlement of debts and the provision of a second chance. That is where social protection measures are integrated, so that citizens can practically rescue their first residence. In particular, we are establishing and introducing a new extrajudicial procedure for households, in contrast to the Katselis law, which had to resort to the courts and wait up to twelve years to find a solution to their problems. With the new out-of-court mechanism citizens can now regulate their debts to banks and public authorities in up to two hundred forty instalments, twice as many as a hundred twenty instalments as the previous government had legislated. In this way, in many cases the monthly instalment to be paid by the debtors will be limited to half. At the same time, we grant first home loans to vulnerable households, supporting their efforts to be consistent with their obligations. If, however, a household has a full economic weakness and cannot serve any regulation, we are giving it the opportunity to get rid of all its debts. We are, in fact, taking care to ensure that his home is bought and given it in order to keep it. So the vulnerable won't leave his house. And since the vulnerable household recovers financially in the future, it has the exclusive ability to rebuild its home. This law gives households and businesses a real, a substantial second chance. In conclusion, the government proves that it is dealing with efficiency, responsibility and social justice the sensitive issue of overcompensation for households and businesses and will continue to do so, ensuring support for those who really need it, but while maintaining the necessary and valuable culture of payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you both. We move on to the first with number 6/5.10.20 a timely question from the First Cycle of the MP Magnesia Coalition of the Radical Left, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Direct restoration of extensive damage to the infrastructures of the Municipality of Almyros". Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, will answer. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you well know, the recent spiral of the 'Janus' cyclone by Magnesia and especially by the Almyros region has literally caused biblical disasters in infrastructure, with the level of damage caused by the widespread floods, to be estimated at around EUR 20 million. The road network, Minister, has been damaged in almost all the settlements in the region. I will give you two examples of Argilochori and Perdika settlements, which still have great accessibility problems today. In the municipal complex of Almyros there is a problem with water supply, as the main internal pipeline suffered extensive damage, so that the water reached in the municipality is not yet drinking. Major damage has also been suffered by bridges in the region, while precisely because of these damages to key infrastructure in the wider region, other facilities such as schools, buildings, residential areas, sports infrastructure, etc. are at risk. Minister, despite the fact that the competent authorities were expecting the fierceness of the cyclone and had a clear picture of the areas which would be more severely affected, nonetheless, there was no preparation at all to avoid these catastrophic consequences that we all experienced. There has been no preventive action for years, and during the course of events there has been no proper coordination between the competent bodies and the authorities. On the basis of the communications, Mr Minister, to restore the affected areas, it was announced by your Ministry that, through the Public Investment Programme, some EUR 1 million will be allocated for each municipality affected by this cyclone. As I have said before, however, the data as they have evolved from the disaster, the sum which is released in connection with the damage caused has a huge mismatch, as I do not claim it to be elements of the Thessaly Region - the damage that has been caused is more than 20 million. So on the basis of what I have just said, the question that arises is a simple and simple one. First of all, please answer me if you intend to make use of all the financial instruments available, in order to make use of it, not in a rough way, but in a short time at least to restore the pretext picture of the infrastructures of the Almyros region. Secondly, if that is the intention, I would like you, Minister, to give me a clear timetable for channelling funds in the direction I described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, I think we all agree that the catastrophe that occurred in the wider region was unprecedented in size and left behind what someone would say, the absolute dissolution. Now let's see what the government did. I sum up these actions on six specific points. Firstly, which is very basic, monitoring and recording of damage. The Ministry has sent to the wider area two hundred seventy engineers and with extremely rapid procedures throughout the region of Thessaly six thousand three hundred forty-five autopsies have been carried out. It has already been signed by the Joint Ministries responsible for demarcation of the affected areas. Secondly, and this is the most important, direct financial support to the affected. Extraordinary one-off financial assistance - which was first granted to Evia under procedures - is now also granted to the regions affected - EUR 5 000 to owners or tenants of the affected buildings and EUR 8 000 per operation. All of this is with the completion of an electronic form on the Ministry's website. The money as soon as the person asks, without having necessarily become an autopsy, can go and get it. That is exactly what you said in your question, EUR 1 million in every city affected. The municipalities affected, Mr Mikopoulos, - it is not only the Municipality of Almyros - are twenty-four in the wider area and we expect the Ministry to have the technical cards disbursed immediately. Thirdly - and this is an innovation you will allow me to say - there is a telephone information and service centre for the affected. Since Wednesday 23 September, it has been put into service at the Ministry of Telephone Centre with ten lines where all interested parties are informed and facilitated on the procedures, which are often very complex indeed. Fourthly, we are moving towards anti-military armour projects which will only reach 40m euros in Thessaly. In the context of this programme, we are doing something that your own government had planned and simply did not. What do we do? We give the concessionaires of the E65 motorway, through rapid procedures, the responsibility of directly carrying out anti-military works. Fifth, restoration of the Athens-Thessalon rail link in record time. The expert's first estimates were that we will do at least twenty days to restore the connection and we managed to do that in real time. And sixth, immediate replacement of printed driving licences and removal from the register of these vehicles destroyed by the 'January'. Of these six points I mentioned to you by the government, it showed with how determination but also with quick steps, at how speed it faced the problems. Now we are going to the Municipality of Almyros to whom you have referred in your question. As you may know, in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Directorate for Restoring the Effects of Natural Disasters operates. Therefore, the IAEA contacted the Municipality of Almyros at the first moment and after this consultation, all the relevant requests and the citizens for the damages that have been done were gathered from the municipality. These tiles will not only carry out autopsies and record any damage to buildings, but will also help the municipality's work. In particular, on 5-10-2020 ADAF engineer step went to Almyros and autopsies began in 12 buildings. Finally, on 25 September, the decision to join the national part of the PPC of our Ministry was posted in DYNAYIA, a number for the restoration of the road infrastructure of the Municipality of Almyros amounting to EUR 1 million. As you can see, Mr Colleague, at the moment what has been requested from the municipalities and once these requests have been made with these technical bulletins, we shall proceed immediately to disbursement. You will know that at the moment the region and the Central Command are in the record of damage and will find a way of immediately making disbursements and using, as you quite rightly said, all the financial instruments available to us, whether national resources or European resources, to cope with the real tragic disasters. But what you will allow me to close down, Mr President, is the following. It is not possible at the moment, when you see that all these efforts have been made, to try to create political impressions. Here both the region and the municipalities and the central government, i.e. the relevant ministries, must come to an agreement. Because - a regional MP you are and I am a regional MP - we both know firsthand that the citizen does not care who is responsible. The citizen is interested in the state in all degrees standing next to him when such disasters occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, there is at least no intention of me to carry out a parliamentary procedure which reflects the creation of political impressions, especially when it comes to an issue which also has a timely cause, as to how the infrastructures have collapsed in a very heavy rain, and on the other hand, and, obviously, politicians and ministries have continued and you are implementing a plan that has been carried out by the previous government, particularly as regards the money that has so far been given to repair construction and damage to individuals. That was beforehand. But the second thing I would like to note, Mr Minister, is that the timely question my own had two points. The first concerns the amount of funding. If I understood your answer correctly, you have not made a commitment so far that it will exceed 1 million of the original communication, when I say again that the estimate from the Region of Thessaly exceeds 20 million euros. On the other hand, it has to do with the very process that will be followed for restoration. Yes, there are records, but you must be bound here by the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister, if you will follow normal recording procedures and competitive procedures, or we will let Magnesia stay in two for at least two years. You know very well what I'm talking about. So let's go again. What is the up-to-date picture? I tell you, Minister, that in the northwestern part of the entire Municipality of Almyros the road has been completely destroyed. Secondly, the bridge that connects the Municipality of Volos to the Municipality of Almyros has collapsed. It cannot be said at that point, Minister, that unpaid work is still being done, because very simply from below there is a large stream and there can be no attachment. Therefore, the bridge must be designed from the beginning. Do you understand, Minister, what amount will it be required for what I describe you? On the Xeria River, which runs all over the city of Almyros, the pavement has collapsed. The damage caused here has already threatened school facilities and buildings. Is it a political impression or is the social reality that the people of Almyros live every day? I am telling you this because so far the workshops you have sent have been assisting the municipality in recording, but the restoration work has so far been rough. You are well aware that in the winter months that will follow, if such phenomena are repeated, you understand the extent and depth of the damage that will be further caused to infrastructure, if we have not at least managed to restore them in a serious and correct way. Here, Minister, I would mention this for a very simple reason. The collapse of these infrastructures which I have described has another major damage that has been caused. Who was that? It is precisely because all the problems that have been described have collapsed in the rural world as well. We do not need to conflict whose competence is to clean up the affairs. We know whose it is. The point is that for years they have not been cleansed, thus overcoming and causing a terrible catastrophe throughout agricultural farming, almost throughout the entire municipality of Almyros. I will not invoke aerial photographs here, Minister. I went to see them myself. There is no field that has not suffered even a minor damage. The crop has been lost, reflecting about 40% of last year's agricultural production. How did this happen? It was challenged because human management in the infrastructure part, as has been done today, was wrongly done and there was no provision at all. Here, Minister, there is a great deal to discuss at long last. We know and know very well that there is an institutional framework and a demonstrable one, there is also confusion of competence and gray zones. Another oversees, someone else builds. So you understand what I mean. That is what I have come to answer today, Minister, whether you are able or intending to modernise the institutional framework that is already in place so that the Almyro world does not live again in infrastructure, but also in rural farming, the extensive disaster that has been experienced by a natural theory. So that is the essence of the question. No relationship with political impression. I want you to commit here to the amount of funding and if you get over what you have announced, of course, depending on the level of damage caused. I would also like you to tell me if there is now any intention, the government's political initiative, to modernise the institutional framework of delimiting building and responsibilities. That's the most important thing of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Comrade, I think you've dealt with a lot of interesting issues. First of all, I would like to say that, yes, the intention of the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure is to provide whatever money is needed to restore the infrastructure. The 1,000, 000 that we give, we give it exceptionally, as we did in the case of Evia. Here there is, if you like, a process in which municipalities must rapidly issue technical bulletins. However, what we always do in a natural disaster - and all governments are doing it all over the world - is that first we go and take care of the damage that has been done to people's homes and businesses. And that's what we did. And you will allow me to say that here we have also made an innovation in relation to what has happened before. I do not want to get into a process of criticism of what the previous speakers have done. We, as I told you, have done a one-off procedure - in addition to the money provided by the Ministry of Interior to the municipalities - EUR 5 000 for each house and for every house, regardless of the damage it has suffered and 8 000 for every operation. And the money they used earlier in six months, Evia, was given over three weeks. That's the first. You spoke about the amount of funding. The figures at the moment have not been predefined or budgeted by the regions and municipalities. When and when this is done - because there is a general picture and we are talking about tens of millions of euros, Mr Colleague, not only in your region, but in other regions too - we will find a way with 32c, as we did in Evia - that is by direct award procedures, so that we do not enter into competitive procedures - to restore the very serious damage. In conclusion, I would like to say this: you have made a reference to the institutional framework. You will allow me to say that the institutional framework in Greece has always been problematic. Of course, what was done with Law 4412/2016 was really to the limit of the comedian, because, having legislated a European directive in a way that was extremely problematic, all public works procedures were stuck for more than eleven months. Moreover, how problematic the law introduced by the previous government was evidence that the law was amended over three hundred times. So we will not come here to amend this framework three hundred times. We will come with a piece of legislation to try to correct the problems that exist both in the implementation and awarding of public contracts. I would like to close by saying, Mr Mikopoulos, the following: there is no case in central government - it is not possible to believe it - even if it is not its responsibility - as you quite rightly said, the settlement of events and other issues is not the responsibility of the central administration - not to sit down to deal with these problems and to give as much money as it takes to restore the very great losses that have been done not only in your own constituency, but also in Thessaly and in Carditsa, where we have real losses, which are very, very, very great. And the procedures we will use will be procedures that will not be too late. Because, as you quite rightly said, there are at present whole regions which are detached, and the state must, either at municipal level or at regional level, or at government, central government level, respond very rapidly to these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you both. We move to the second with No 1/15-10-2020 appropriate question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Support measures for the poor and the protection of the chronic suffering and the disabled". The current question by Mr Kegeroglou will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I have chosen to table as the first question - which was the first for the entire Greek Parliament - the one concerning weak people, the poor, the most hit by this crisis. And I say 'from this crisis', because Greece experienced, after the economic derailment of 2004-2009, a long economic crisis and, at the same time, the state's inability to cope with the phenomena of poverty and extreme poverty that were exacerbated at the time. This challenge after 2010, with specific institutional interventions, we took advantage of it in order to respond to the Greek state with institutions in support of the weak. Both the minimum guaranteed income and the Fund for the most deprived and other programmes, such as Housing and Reintegration, have worked in this direction. Indeed, it was a result. If we look at the figures for the next period, we will see that they have been dealt with - at the same time with the main economic problems - and with the phenomenon of extreme poverty, so that they are no longer increased, but also that there has been support for the weak. As soon as the COVID crisis comes -19, I would say, we have a reversal of the problems and the causes that lead to and exacerbate poverty. We have phenomena that are already being recorded as extreme, and we need to adjust these institutions accordingly. What we are asking you, Minister, is whether you will adjust the terms and conditions of the minimum guaranteed income so that those who, overnight, go through the range of poverty, can be supported. Because there are people who have to work from October 2019 and do not receive unemployment benefit, are not in support programmes, there are people who, from one month to the other, go into the range of extreme poverty and have children, families and are not on any support. So the system must be quickly reflexed, not on the basis of the incomes of the previous year, which is no longer valid for the present year, not on the basis of the incomes of the previous six-month period, but, at least, the incomes of the last quarter. We need to see the migration into the range of poverty. That is the one I ask, that is, to see what has happened or what you intend to do. The second is about exploiting the funds of the EIDA, so that the beneficiaries of the fund, which is for food and material assistance to the poor and extremist poor, can rely on this crisis and on means of protection. We would also like you to tell us what you will do to facilitate particularly the years of sufferers and disabled persons who are the beneficiaries of the TEVA, so that they do not conspire in the means of transport, but are able to go to their doctor with a voucher - I say, for example - with a taxi. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u21	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, what you are asking about the minimum guaranteed income is really essential and topical, as is the European Fund for the most deprived. It could not be different because, in these difficult years between 2012 and 2015, you, too, understood the great difficulty, but also the essence, if you like, of this ministry. Thank you, therefore, for giving me the opportunity to inform both you and the National Representation of what this government has already done these months and to plan for the next ones. Indeed, the minimum guaranteed income for us is an essential tool, an essential part of the state's subsidised policy and of its entire welfare policy. You are well aware of the repatriations of the past, the mistakes in the application that prevented the universal application of the minimum guaranteed income between 2015 and 2017. So you also know that we have not come to them and that we are continuing, that we are intensifying this whole activity and aid to our vulnerable fellow citizens. In the first budget that we prepared for 2020, we provided a total of EUR 850 million for the minimum guaranteed income, which is also provided by the OPECA. According to our Ministry's updated data, this covers over five hundred and ninety-two thousand of our fellow citizens, namely 5.62% - to be precise - of the entire population of our country. It is still true - as you have pointed out - that 2020 was set as a year by the unexpected pandemic factor, the outbreak of which radically overthrowed economic planning not only in our country, but in the world as a whole. It is also right that this result has been even more important to our most vulnerable fellow citizens. That is why at the very first moment we have taken measures to support and relieve them. What did we do? As Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we have shown the necessary quick reflexes. First of all, we have ensured that both the minimum guaranteed income and the remaining benefits of the Ministry of Labour are paid uninterruptedly, so that it is not necessary for the pandemic to extend to the months of the pandemic, particularly in Lockdown, for the beneficiaries to come to the community centres with the necessary documents. And what we did is that we were justly extending the allowance to everyone. But even more so, we have anticipated emergencies. I would remind you that the Ministry gave more than 8 million to help the economically weaker and ensure that all those who are beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income and have children in May 2020 without making any requests, digitally and self-righteously, entered their account from 100 to 300 euros in line with the range and size of their family. Finally - and I will then go on to this - on the aid that the State is giving through - as you quite rightly said - the important European Fund for the Aid of the most deprived people, what we have done is that, in partnerships with the Ministry of Interior, together with the CEDEFOP, together with the municipalities, together with the 'Help at Home', we have ensured that during the months of the first wave of the pandemic, the lockdown, these materials go directly to the home of all the beneficiaries and there is no need for agglomeration or more costs. The state wasn't just a shield for them over their heads, but it got to their doorstep. In my dentistry, I will tell you what we are doing and how we satisfy the questions and the requests you have put to us in your second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u23	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the part of the activation of the minimum guaranteed income to say something. The minimum guaranteed income - as you know - has three pillars: financial support, integration into programmes already in operation - providing social services and of course a basic but neglected pillar is the employment reintegration. Because the pillar of labour reintegration with active employment policies can remove from the range of extreme poverty the person in danger of becoming a permanent employee if not integrated into active employment policies. This issue is very important. The main thing, however, today is to urge you to study and make immediate decisions on the integration of the young people who are caused by the pandemic, essentially from the protection measures of the pandemic, from the recession that is around us. What do I mean? To tell you it's very simple. Not with the income of the previous year, not even with the income of the previous six months, but, if the citizen is without work and is excluded from the unemployment benefit - he has no support from there, that is, - and of course has a family, automatically on his request to go to support the guaranteed income. He cannot wait to reflect the situation of his poverty after three months and within three months. This is a matter of development. The system has also been evaluated in its pilot implementation and in its universal implementation. Where it seems to be suffering is in the following two points, according to the evaluations of all actors. One is the quick reflexes of the system itself to incorporate those made from one day to the other poor. The second is the activation of the active employment policies of the third pillar. I would therefore like there to be immediate action in order for it to be able, in the month above, to benefit from the aid of the guaranteed income. Now, in the second part concerning the TEVA. Look, the CED has nothing to do with it. And if the CED had been involved and the Ministry of Education, it would have become a mess. But I know that there has been an important job both from the EHIM, which is managing the programme, and from the fifty-seven to sixty partnerships, which we have created since 2014, just to stop being state-run, but to be social in nature in these structures and bodies that are next to the citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It seemed, therefore, that the choice at the time of 2014 was very correct, because they went very quickly, as far as I am concerned, on the subject that has arisen, namely the issue of support for weak people and by means of protection. The TESA has four hundred with five hundred thousand - if I'm not cheating - beneficiaries. Does it have the appropriate amounts so that these protection instruments can go to these people? I will tell you that in Heraklion and Chania, in this case, in other parts of the country, the mask has been made compulsory both on the road and on the work and on the house and everywhere. The Secretary General of the Ministry of Protection takes out the registrant and says it's universal application. He obviously doesn't ask the weak who will find the money to obtain the means. But the TDI will have to take care of it. What does that mean? And masks, which can be reused, but also from the other accusations, can cover the whole world - that is what is needed - and, of course, disinfectants and other means. These people can't buy them. Imagine a five - year - old family that has no resources and is in TEDA. He needs his support. And of course don't throw away the idea that I'm putting you on the bus for the sick, the weak, the suspected one who has a problem and has to go to the doctor and shouldn't get on the bus, be able to go. This EUR 15 or EUR 10 to be able to go to the city if it is from a village or even here in Athens the EUR 7 or the EUR 10 to be moved does not have it. Take care in a flexible way that TEVA will make available voucher for this purpose, which can be based on the minimum amount of a 7 euro route, say. For us, it seems insignificant, but for him it's top. And it's going to enter the mass mode of transport, and if it's suspected of COVID, and it's being moved for that reason, you know what's going to happen. I'm telling you, specialists...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Kegeroglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u26	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance, too. I think you gave it to her because of the matter. It's very important. We're waiting for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I understand tolerance. It is very important indeed. Mr Kegeroglu, I am very pleased to say that all the answers - apart from this very small taxi parentheses, because they cannot be eligible expenditure, as you probably know better than I do - on the questions that you have put to us are positive and are moves to which we have already taken place. Our first concern about dealing with the pandemic in the labour market is what you have said, namely active employment policies. As you know, active employment policies can be carried out in two arms, primarily through the OAED and its active employment policies, but also by the third pillar, the minimum guaranteed income. You know that my Minister a few weeks ago announced the grant programme of 100 thousand posts through the OAED and full cover of insurance contributions and along with this incentives for longterm unemployed people. This is, I think, the biggest programme for employment and insurance contributions. Given the fact that the incomes of many of our fellow citizens have in fact been affected by the recession, we expect an increase in the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, as in 2021, we expect an increase - as you quite rightly said - of the beneficiaries of most of the benefits paid by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That is why we have revised our budget and know that the budget of the housing allowance will be raised from EUR 300 million to EUR 400 million, the minimum guaranteed income will cover two hundred and seventy thousand households, the child's allowance will be raised from EUR 961 million to EUR 1,040 million, and it concerns one and a half million children. We have budgeted a higher budget than EUR 730 to EUR 830 million. At the same time, listen to what we're doing, Mr. Kegeroglu. We join as beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income categories of our vulnerable fellow citizens who never existed before as beneficiaries. And who are they? They are the most vulnerable. In the bill that I defended on the previous Ministerial Council, what have we submitted and what are we doing? We join as beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income for homeless people living in closed care facilities and abused women who live in closed structures of violence. For the first time, homeless and abused women who live in closed hospitality structures are integrated as beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income. This is a very big cut, a very great help to our most vulnerable fellow citizens. Now listen to what I have to say about TEBA and answer your questions. In consultation with the European Commission, we have already ensured the purchase of protective materials, such as masks, antiseptics, gloves and other materials. And we have guaranteed it exactly for what you said, for the benefit of the TEVA. With the Secretariat-General for Trade and Consumer Protection, we have already completed the technical specifications for this, so that products, such as masks, alcoholic lotion, disinfectants of hands, alcohol, babysitters, wet hand scarves are already within the eligible costs. And I will tell you that we are at an advanced stage, because there are already regions such as the Peloponnese Region, Kavala, Arcadia, the Rhodes Western Sector, Messinia, Argolida, Laconia, which have already announced the supply of all these products. So, Mr Kegeroglu, the results of the proceedings are expected in a few weeks. Our vulnerable fellow citizens will be able to be covered for these goods through TEVA, we have made the necessary amendments. And I think you can also inform our fellow citizens in Crete that they can join this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Of course, Mr Kegeroglu did not ask the question about Crete alone, but more generally. We move to the third with number 16/5-10-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Without medical care for children in foster families." Mr Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Michaelidou, you are the State Secretary responsible and I believe we will have a very fruitful debate on such an important issue. I read: "The foster parents in their way are over-parents, because the reward may not come from the very experience of life, but are already in the soul of the parent contractor in this unselfish joy of offering to a child who has been afflicted, embarrassed, deprived, without understanding why. I congratulate them, thank them and assure them that I will be with them." It is Mr Mitsotakis' speech in presenting the programme "A Family for Every Child". These are December 2019, but Mr Mitsotakis reiterated them in July 2020 again presenting the new framework for assumptions and the adoption by the Centre “MATERA”. And he said he would start monthly support from families, ranging from 300 to 1,000 euros, depending on the problem children face. Even though we are drawing time from Mr Mitsotakis' first announcement, the situation is unfortunately tragic for these families. Those who have taken over the assumption of children who have been abandoned, abused - without really knowing why - need a lot of support, therapies, therapies, psychotherapies, psychological support, therapies, as well as the foster parents to carry out this difficult task need counselling. These foster families are invited to do it with the 260 euros, Madam Secretary. It's funny. It is impossible for them to do so unless they themselves have a large financial surplus. In addition, although there is provision of the law of 2018, the services do not give them the necessary AMCA. They receive children without a birth certificate many times, because structures have neither a duty nor a right in practice to proceed with these procedures. They give the children without a birth certificate, without an AMCA. The people who have to solve the thousands of problems that this child has, to really heal his soul, are also called upon to do a bureaucratic gulch, with the services "on the contrary". I'm missing the interpretative circular, and I'm actually asking you two things on this question. First, implement the commitments for an allowance proportional to needs. Secondly, it should be interpreted as a circular so that parents' services do not have to wait for the judgment when the assumption is made in private pact. Also, at last in the structures to have a right and obligation for these children to have AMKA in the name of the structure, anywhere. We can't have two thousand children without actually medical care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u31	The floor is held by the State Secretary for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know how much programmes have been advanced with such efficiency and so fast timetables as the implementation of our Government's programme of adoptions and assumptions. I am really proud of the time, of the transparency and of the effectiveness we have managed to run this programme, which, as you said, announced in December, our Prime Minister and in June were able to confirm that what he announced in December, after six months, was able to put it into practice by the Government, especially the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Now, as far as your questions are concerned, I will tell you this, since you have brought it to the staff a little. One of the first stories that really moved me and I said that here we have to do something: I visit the National Centre for Social Solidarity. The National Centre for Social Solidarity is a mother who leaves and has a child with her. She finds me at the entrance and tells me: "Mrs. Michalidou, this child has been taken by the assumption process and is like a child, I love it, as you can imagine, as much as anything else in the world. This child has a heart disability and, unfortunately, while my husband has a very wealthy fund, because he's in the Army, and I can get it to Germany to do an operation, I can't, because there's this problem." We are looking at legislation to understand what is going on and to solve the problem not only of this lady, but of all candidates and current and future contractors, who are unfortunately able to run a corresponding problem in the future. As you said, this issue is regulated and is provided for by two legislations in 2018. And it is foreseen that the contractor's fund covers all children who are on takeover and, if the children are uninsured and do not have AMKA, then there are arrangements for what is done so that they are covered. You mentioned two thousand children. Mr Arseni, your numbers are right. For starters, we have a thousand, six hundred, eighty-nine children in child protection structures right now. Of these, six thousand eighty - nine, one thousand five hundred eighteen have AMCAs. The fact that the rest do not have AMKA, that is, over a hundred children don't have AMKA, is not a process that pleases us, but under no circumstances is two thousand. So what did we do about it? In August we saw that, since it was legally applicable, there were, as you said, some cases where the services did not apply the provision. What were these services, which did not know how to implement this provision? It was the FBI, it was the JEPs, and it was the HICPs. So what we did is that in August we sent instructions to all the competent bodies to ensure the universal application and effective access of children to medical care. What is happening - to inform you quickly - is that there are two problems: one is the children who do not have an AMKA, so we asked for two documents to be sent to the CPIs and to the CPI, both of their membership of the CPI and of the integration of the foster family into Anynet. The second problem, which arose, was when in these children their biological family was from citizens of either the European Union, not Greek citizens, or from third countries. So there we have given very specific instructions so that these three bodies, who have had some problems in the past to treat these children medically, no longer have any problem with them. So also in cases where there was no AMCA we gave specific instructions to these three bodies, which is what two supporting documents should wait, but in cases where the child's biological parents were not Greek citizens and were either citizens of the European Union or of third countries we have given an exact solution, which already exists with these three competent bodies. I'll come back to dentistry for the takeover allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u33	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Michaelidou. It would be useful to refer to the benefit in the protology as well, so that we can have an integrated debate, as in your dentistry I will not have the right to answer under the procedure. So I think it is unanswered and I will insist that we really expect the benefit to be implemented. Because you may have moved too fast. I don't know the details. But I know from the parents, because I moved on the basis of complaints from parents yesterday. To prepare the question I spoke with too many parents and discussed their problems and I have reports and testimonies in front of me. So the problems are still going on, the agencies and the FBI are still not giving AMCA. Approved documents to the contractors. In fact, we have cases where parents have submitted to the competent public prosecutor's decisions of the certificate of a minor registered in the National Register of Article 5 of Law 4538/2018, the attestation of the foster parents referred to in Article 7 of Law 4538/2018, as they were asked to, and have produced the signed contract of admission from the structure itself, and yet they refuse to give them AMKA. This is a statement by parents of contractors to a child who really faces the exclusion from all health services, as all elementary child health tests must be carried out with their full indebtedness outside the system. I do not know what you have done, but I know that the problem remains. That is why I call on you to see where this is going, because an action in itself does not make any difference. The difference is when the problem is solved. The information we have from the families until yesterday is that the problem has not been solved. I will insist on the allowance, because really AMKA is a huge issue, let alone when these children may have health issues. There the condition for the foster family is really very hard, and obviously for the child too. But for the most daily cases, where there is absolutely a need for counselling, speech therapy, gaming and so on. for children, but also support for parents, right now, the state that does is wash its hands, say that "the child left me, get 260 euros and good luck", when this child has enormous needs. I think this is unacceptable, though with your Government's commitments and declarations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, the assumption of a child who lives without his family is an act of selflessness, and that is why the state must strengthen it. We must make it clear to everyone - and I think in the Greek state - that the act of assumption is completely distinct from the act of adoption. The act of assumption in fact is a very great act of love, which presupposes the temporary hospitality of a child, until its biological family works with social workers and can back up the child in the idea of embrace. So we all have to understand that one act is not necessarily a protector for the other. Assumption is not necessarily a protagonist of adoption. If you really have some complaints - which, by definition, I imagine, cannot be yesterday, because you have tabled the question five days ago - that the directives we have given, the very specific ones, are not working, please very much present them to my office and to me personally, because these children should have taken AMKA. That's what we tried to solve. It seems that regulatory could not be solved by itself, but please very much, to see what the problem is and where the system sticks exactly. Now on the assumption piece: You know that since 2006 and the relevant joint ministerial decision only the Attica Social Welfare Centre has been responsible for giving assumption allowance. The assumption allowance it gives ranges from 260 to 850 euros. Today, what we are doing is making progress towards the necessary measures so that the benefit can be granted universally and horizontally from both the eighty two structures of child protection which exist in the country. We work in cooperation with UNICEF. We have a programme with UNICEF, which has very great know-how in how the assumption allowance runs properly, how it runs horizontally and how it runs digitally within 2021 for cases of formal assumption we will set up the platform so that for all children who are in a foster family, the foster family can receive the assumption allowance. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] As you know, in a ministerial decision, which was adopted in August, we also predicted a 25% increase in the amount that the family can receive, of course, according to the degree of disability or formality of the development of the child. Obviously, I would not say it as an incentive to the family, in any case, but as the state's minimum aid to strengthen these families. So, we're programmed with UNICEF. We have submitted proposals to the Recovery and Resilience Fund on a second plan, to see how we can run the professional assumption - which is completely separate from that of the formal assumption procedure - and there he will talk more about children who will take over professional contractors, most of all, professionals not only of child protection and disability, because he will have to do more with disabled children, who will go to a foster family or to a contractor. So we have already increased the planned amounts according to the level of disability by 25%. We're running with UNICEF. And I would like to say - we are usually able to achieve the timetables I have put into - that, in the first half of 2021, we will run the take-up allowance, universal, horizontal and digital, for all. Of course, we are preparing the assumption campaign, to explain to our fellow citizens what the assumption is, how it is distinct from adoption, but also to mobilize, perhaps, our fellow citizens who are not necessarily only those who have a child of their own, but may also be some who have already a family, have children, children, have grown up, have their children's rooms at home and, in whole or in part, want to offer their hug and love to a child through the institution of assumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. We move on to the third with number 22/5-10-2020 in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "The serious problems due to delays in the adoption of pension decisions". Mr Katsotis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is of course a question for thousands of applicants for pension. It would be appropriate, except in the cases of the question, to answer to all those who are unduly pending for retirement decisions. Hundreds, therefore, of former IKA insured with successive insurance and insurance of the former EAFRD - TSMEDE, after the integration of the insurers into the ECA, are at a dead end. We note that, from three and a half years and four years, their retirement has not been promoted. The problem, as we are told, is also due to the failure to adopt the necessary circulars to define the body to promote the process of adopting their outstanding pension decisions. The problem is exacerbated by the sub-delegation of ECA services. The above persons who have been insured for all these years either remain without income or are forced to live with the advance payment of retirement pensions. They are essentially driven to economic asphyxiation, hostages of this policy, which is implemented over time for social security. So you ask what urgent action the government will take to issue all the necessary circulars to stop all the inconvenience to the delays in the extradition and the award of pensions, to immediately take their pensions, to provide permanent staff with the services of the EPC, so that they can respond to the services provided after the integration of the funds. We are waiting for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kattotis, first of all I would like to thank you for your question. The question to which the question refers is really important. Indeed, the time elapsed from the pension application to the awarding of the final pension, as the temporary pension is due and we must not forget that, is greater than we would like and than the State's obligation to provide a good service for its citizens. It's not a new problem. We've had it many years, decades, although it's been intensified lately. Now on this point, you know very well that L.4387/2016 brought great reclassifications to our insurance system. Adapting to the new data and applying uniform and uniform rules to the dozens of funds unified under the umbrella of the ECA has never been implemented by the previous government. At the same time, the unification of the ECA at the level of information systems and registries has remained almost an empty letter until 2019. In fact, little progress has been made and so we have reached a point where large categories of insured persons are experiencing delays in the award of definitive pensions. In order to address these existing issues, in my opinion, the extradition of many, unclear and very often conflicting with the content of the circulars which have substantially made the work of the services of the Ministry of Labour even more difficult and caused delays in the awarding of a definitive pension and thus suffering the beneficiaries of these pensions, as you described it. I would like, of course, to point out here that all those who submit their pension papers and of course meet the legal conditions for retirement receive temporary pension within a short period of time. With the recent law, Law No.4714/2020, we increased the amount of the temporary pension, 80% of the final for employees and 70% for freelance professionals, but also for OGA pensioners. This is how we improve the relationship between the amount received today by the pensioner and the amount of the final pension. However, it is true that the payment of temporary pensions cannot continue indefinitely and obviously does not solve the problem. The aim of the Ministry at the level of legislation and implementing provisions as well as at the service level is to normalise all these cases. Already under Law 4670/2020, the procedure for examining the claim for a successive pension has been considerably simplified for the benefit of the insured person. In particular, we have reduced the insurance days it takes to examine the application by the last body. What does that practically mean? That all this was considerably reduced - come the files from one service to another, which is responsible for a significant part of the huge delays we have had over the past five years. In addition, both with changes to the provisions of successive and parallel insurance each day counts, either by increasing the years of insurance and therefore by calculating the pension at a higher rate, or by receiving an increase in the amount of the parallel employment. Analytical circulars have already been issued for cases involving parallel and successive employment for the same pensioner. And very soon - I hope that this will happen within the next one or two weeks - the circular for cases where we only have successive insurance periods is completed. I would like to end by telling you that our short-term objective is to cover directly all the situations for which genuine guidance is needed towards the services. What do we do in this case? What we want in the medium term is to codify all the circulars issued by the subject in order to facilitate all services and the citizen concerned. And we are already taking action in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Katsotis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that pension delays concern thousands of pension seekers and, of course, it cannot be a temporary solution, as you have said, but to address the problem. We want to note, Minister, that the report of the State Budget Office in Parliament in the second quarter of 2020 contains no elements of outstanding applications for retirement or their estimated expenditure. What does the report say? I think you know that. He says, unfortunately, that "in spite of our repeated requests to the competent authorities and then to the commander of the EKKA, we did not receive the particulars, as was formulated at the end of June 2020, nor any explanation for them". That is what the report of the Committee on Budgets says. However, Minister, and a new letter to the commander of the FBI sent the Budget Office to the House on 2-10-2020, because they had not yet sent the details of the outstanding pensions despite the commitment of the EPC by letter dated 15-9-2020 that he would send the relevant information by the end of September. It is clear that the government, Minister, hides elements in relation to outstanding pensions. The number of pensioners coming out every year is what is satisfied with the money made available from the state budget, and that determines how much pensions will unfortunately be paid. The main cause of the long delay for many years is that, until now, governments have been keeping the pensioners with considerable amounts, more than 600 million, taking into account the retrospectives that are being given together. Of course, the digital pension version and the fact that many of the necessary data are handwritten. But that is also an excuse for not awarding pensions, since the government consciously does not hire staff and there are computer failures to complete all the manuscripts in electronic form. You know very well that all the elements in manuscripts can be completed in electronic form and, of course, the overall requirement is to move this process forward. The delays, of course, are due, as you have said, to the circulars which are also contradictory many times. The creation of e-EKA, the lasting historical unifications that carry objects from one another, the tragic lack of personnel, computer failures and everything you can imagine have created a situation without precedent. The number of non-executive main pension decisions has increased and is over a hundred sixty thousand. And we're talking about non-final retirement. Near these levels are outstanding supplementary pensions and a very large number of one-off pensions. The issue of supplementary pensions has, in fact, been stopped, particularly at the so-called government's address with the vertically-integrated structure, i.e. an employee will be charged and taken out by a principal subsidiary and one-off, as you have said, where mother and child lose the mother. And the government, unfortunately, has great responsibilities, makes fun of digital pensions to hide the deliberate delay in issuing outstanding pensions and applications raised by self-employed and other microprofessionals known to be worse because of the worsening crisis they submit more applications for retirement. The Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsis, said that, as of 1 June 2020, 34.37% of new pensions will be issued - it says - digitalally, while a section of the outstanding pensions, over four hundred thousand cases, will be included in the digital award. That's what the Minister of Labour said. What did he say on 21 September? By the end of September, all outstanding widow and peasant pensions will be entered into the "ATLAS" system. Could you tell us, Minister, where are we? Not where we'll meet, of course. Give us information on the issue of pensions - the notorious announcement - of the one day, which is only of the former OGA and transfers due to death. Is it true that the one-day pension rate is 1% to 2% of applications submitted to the OGA? For transfers, tell us exactly what the rate is. Is it true, Minister, that in the former OGA, despite the many drum impacts on digital pensions, because the time before 1998 was optional and is regarded as successive insurance, the pensions are not digital? It is a lot of issues and indeed the issue of outstanding pensions is about thousands of people who are tortured, who have been tyrannized for years. The government must assume its responsibilities and must respond, because the problem is too great and is exacerbated rather than solved. The question we have submitted to you on successive insurance and, of course, on the funds that we have submitted to you and the CSMEC, the EBRD and the legal entities governed by public law, where things are very difficult for those who are retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Mr Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes to answer my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u44	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, I would like to begin by referring to your second question concerning the staffing and functioning of the ECA. It is true that the integration of all the funds into one is a very great and painful effort. A year ago, very important steps have been taking for the reorganisation of the services and even in the midst of the COVID pandemic -19 and once again, the EKKA and the EIB. In this context, the possibility of leaving the EMCDDA has ceased due to extracts and transfers, while following the adoption of its organisation, with the e.g. 8/2019, but also the provisions of Law 4670/2020, in the context of the implementation of the establishment plan, the administration of the EMCDDA has redistributed the human resources, with the aim of maintaining the well-functioning organisation. Regarding the question of the staffing of the structures of e-ECA with permanent staff as of 16 July 2020, in an act of the Ministerial Council, the recruitment procedures of eighty-six people were launched to meet the needs of the organisation, and additional recruitments were planned in 2021. For outstanding pensions and numbers I answered a question from a fellow Member about two weeks ago. Indeed, the figures are what you said at the end of July, about seventeen thousand people and about fifty-eight thousand - if I remember correctly - an adjunct, but these are the upper limits. Many of these are two-tier writings. People who entered the electronic system sent the same request by post. That's the problem now that EFCA's trying to make it clear. It will, in October, substantially reduce and finally eliminate the outstanding pensions, which we hope will take place in the next year. But these are the short-terms. The main thing is this last thing to which you have referred, which has to do with the really great reform, which will essentially bring the end to the history of outstanding pensions and in which very important steps have been taken and is the fully automated digital pension awarding process through the “ATLAS” system. After the completion of the electronic process, we hope that, on the one hand, we will be able to obtain the exemption from the role of the clerk, to which you yourself referred, namely, to transfer from one fund to another his or her documents, because he will be able to draw them directly from the sources himself and, on the other, to transform a multi-month standard procedure into a very short-term transaction for the insured. I would remind you that last April the pilot implementation of the pension scheme to the former OGA began, but not in these categories you mentioned. They're the ones who've only been retired from OGA. The second was widow's pensions from death. These seem to be about 30% of the pensions paid, and they are now automatically awarded. As of 15 April, the online service of the eFCA began to accept the first electronic applications of the insured. On July 23, and after exhaustive checks, the digital pension system was put into operation. These two categories I mentioned earlier, i.e. those who have only an OGA pension or because of a death widow and will gradually be included in the ‘ATLAS’ system and new categories of pension decisions. In other words, what we hope is that, by the end of the year, disability pensions and the objective of the administration of e-ECA will be in the next year by the end of the year, 80% with 85% of the pensions being paid digitally. There is a part that remains that is international pensions and a number of other things which are particularly difficult. That's where we'll have a little longer. In conclusion, I would like to stress that our Ministry's cooperation with e-ECA is very narrow and together we have set high targets for solving chronic issues, precisely for the benefit of insured retired citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u45	For widow's pensions the law has been passed 50% to become 70%. This has still been pending for over a year and a half. What is the difficulty of doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u46	It's not what you call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Undersecretary, we won't have a dialogue, please. If Mr. Katsotis wants clarification, he might come and talk. We continue with the fourth with number 7/5-10-2020 top-level question by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The payment of seasonal aid to workers in the cultural and spectacle sectors". Mr. Gregoryde, good morning. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for being here yourself to answer my question. As you can see, this is about the payment of the seasonal allowance to artists and members of the show and of the audience. I would like to make it quite clear to you right away, Minister, that there is no point in having a micro-party confrontation on my part, especially since my colleagues in this question - in the broad sense of my fellow Members - are in starvation because most of them - 80% - have been unemployed since February. And I know, because most of them - we're a small country - are my friends too. In my opinion, there is an absurdity with regard to the payment of the seasonal right this year, which concerns your Ministry and which my question seeks not to hamper it, but rather to correct it together, to help you correct it. Illegality is now in our view: according to your circular this year - as you know - with Chapter 6, paragraph 2, paragraph 6, in order to collect any worker in the arts or the spectacle - the seasonal allowance, this year's work, should have the status of employed person in the sector concerned during the period of payment of the aid, that is to say from 10 September this year until 30 November this year. It is more obvious that this year, given the conditions in the field of culture, which has been suspended since February in its largest part, this provision makes it practically impossible, Mr Minister, to pay the vastly large majority of its beneficiaries, who will necessarily not work during the period of payment, since there is almost Lockdown in the theatres. At the moment they're working very little to no theater, five, six throughout the country from the eighties we have. So I ask you, is there a availability and care for your Ministry to make a correction or, if necessary, to amend this provision so that as many workers as possible who are entitled to this aid are able to benefit from it and who are on a job suspension - I remind you - from mid-February 2020? Secondly, is there a plan to extend the unemployment subsidy to those who already receive this regular allowance due to the exceptional circumstances of the coronary pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr Gregoryde. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Grigoriadis. The question you put is indeed important. The arts branch has really been hit. It's one of the branches that's been hit most by all of the pandemic. You give me the opportunity to clarify a number of important issues relating to the integrated strategy of managing the effects of the pandemic, in the area of culture and, of course, in the people of culture, specifying all the measures taken by the government to support the industry, its creators and workers in it. These measures, which constitute an important source of intervention and support for people and businesses operating in the cultural sector, have so far included: The first was to pay special attention to special categories of workers. It was this EUR 800 compensation. The second was the additional special purpose compensation for professionals in art and culture, of EUR 534, but also with full insurance cover and the condition there was to register on the electronic platform "artandcultureprofessionals.services.gov.gr" in the information system of "ERGANI" of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on a unilateral request - responsible statement of the interested party, without the employer being required to make a responsible statement until October 15th. That is the basic thing we are talking about. Up to now, ten and a half thousand people have been registered on this special platform. And I really appeal to all those who fall under this category to be registered. This is the main way to get this communication with them, otherwise nothing else can be done. The third concerns the suspension of employment contracts. In the context of the implementation of the measure suspending contracts, workers shall receive the special purpose compensation of EUR 534 per month and by L.4722/20 that measure has been extended until October 2020. The fourth is the granting of one-off financial assistance of EUR 400 to non-subsidised long-term unemployed, including the categories you mentioned earlier. We also have a two-month extension of unemployment benefit, which is even beyond that, during the period of regular grant of unemployment benefit for the long-term unemployed, the unemployment assistance for those who ended in the first quarter of 2020. We then extended for four more months, i.e. even those that ended up until August 2020. These measures, as you know, have already been discussed in detail in the successive debates - you mentioned this in your question - although I admit that the respective associations and the Hellenic Actors' Association and the Pan-Hellenic Vision and Accuracy Federation have met both with those responsible at the Ministry of Labour and with the OAED. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. Now, Mr Gregoryiadis, I come to your question about the payment of the special seasonal aid and the conditions under which workers in the cultural sector may receive it. According to a recent OAED circular, the following apply: The special seasonal allowance is granted for accompanying three conditions. First condition, the cultural worker must have carried out the previous year, in 2019, at least fifty days in the cultural sector with a maximum of two hundred ten days. The second condition is those which he or she has made in other sectors in the calendar year preceding payment, that he or she is not more than those which he or she has made in the cultural sector. In other words, he should be mostly an employed person in the field of culture. Let us say, for example, if you have a hundred and twenty-five equivalents in the area of culture and seventy-five in something else, as an employed person, you get that allowance again. The third condition is that all the wages paid by workers in the cultural sector - I would like you to pay attention to this point - in the calendar year preceding payment not to exceed forty days. In other words, when we mention the total wages here, we mean both in the area of culture and outside the area of culture. The amount of the aid shall be EUR 508,20 and shall be paid to all beneficiaries once a year during the period from 10 September to 30 November. A check of the conditions for payment of the aid is carried out within this particular period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you forced me to come back to tell you that you did not answer the core of my question. You have the chance to answer right now. I say to you that the sixth paragraph of the circular brought by your Ministry this year - a few months ago - says and expressly states that they must have the status of employed person in the sector in question during the period of payment, that is, - as you quite rightly said - from 10 September to 30 November. But we know that at the moment 99% overall of my colleagues, whether they are singers or actors, or directors, clothingists, etc., are unemployed. I mean, anyway, they're excluded from the 505-euro help. The cause of my question is this, especially if there is some method, if you are considering some method, so that they are not excluded, as it is on forced holidays. So in February the government, quite rightly thinking that the coronary will scatter everywhere, closed the theaters, closed the places that people sing, etc., and therefore are on forced holidays. After all, our industry is suffering from unemployment. Now, then, these people are excluded at a overwhelming rate. So the first thing I really want you to say is that if it is possible to finally change working during the payment period, as we all know in here and outside of society that none of them are working. He works one in a hundred. I know that very well, because I wouldn't work either. It is huge that unemployment is affecting the industry. The second thing I have to say to you is that in terms of EUR 800, the first aid, which was for one and a half months, and the next EUR 534 that is for every month, as you know better than me, there has been a problem as the workers in art and culture, the sight and the hearing were not visible. In particular, I say to you - I know it from the Greek Actors' Association and Mr Spyros Bibila, who is his president and is also a friend for many years - that about two thousand have managed to get all 800 and 534 euros, while we are attested to 12 thousand. And this is about the permanent unemployment that is affecting our industry and other problems inherent in it and so forth. So, what I'm saying is that whatever you've tried to do, in fact, of about a hundred twenty thousand working in the arts and the spectacle - hearing - the hundred thousand have not taken anything and what I'm saying to you is totally proven. And the second thing I am saying to you is that in this particular case, we have to find a formula if we want to get at least EUR 505 so that those who are not working now do not exclude them, because none of us is working now. He works one in a hundred. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say this because you have referred to it, Minister. I said not to mention it so that we don't go into controversy. You said that it was very good to the Secretary General of your Ministry, Ms. Anna Solinakis, as well as to the Governor of OAED, Mr. Spyros Protossaltis. However, the fact that Mrs. Tsrainakis said: "I am unreserved. Go to the commander of the OAED, because I am unauthorized and referred them to Mr. Protopsaltis and the commander of OAED answered: "You know, I am unauthorized, return to Mrs. Hrainaki" is a problem reminiscent of Anna and Kaiafa. I do not want to say it seriously, but it is like one of them saying 'Oh, how do I throw this ignorant over it, let me throw it to the OAED'. Saying the OAED Commander "How am I supposed to avoid this ignorance from me? Let me return it to Mrs Strainakis again." But it is a political decision and choice and will. If you have the will, at least 505 euros to get those of more than one hundred and twenty-two thousand people, that will be very important. You see my look, it's not aggressive, it's challenging. I guarantee you, my colleagues are hungry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr Gregoriadis. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes to answer my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u54	Mr Gregoriadis, although this House is not a place for such matters, I must tell you that three times I tried to work with Mrs Strainakis. I couldn't do all three because they were in conversations with the Greek Actors Association for workers in the field, etc. He has dealt with this issue on several occasions and has seen it in detail. Now, for the purpose of granting the seasonal allowance, I would like to highlight a point of particular importance. In accordance with the legislation in force, beneficiaries must have the status of employee of the sector concerned during the period of payment of the allowance. I mean, for example, the musician who will apply to OAED should appear insured as a musician, not in any other capacity...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u55	Work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u56	...to be insured for a short period of time. There are many who also deal with other things. What OAED wants is that he sees him in a particular capacity. This status must be, when making this application, the quality of the artist. In other words, the OAED is checked by the OAED at the date of submission of the application in accordance with the deadlines for submission, the last work carried out in their professional sector, in the field of culture, in which they request the aid. Therefore, Mr Gregoryiadis, with what I have said in the cultural sector, they are certainly the beneficiaries of the special seasonal right. You also came from space, you said it in detail. It's your professional property too, and I have to say "fun" of the actor Gregoriadis. Who, then, deserves it? First, we have the actor who is an employee and his contract of employment has been suspended as an actor. He's entitled to the allowance. The second is the actor who works as an actor. He deserves the allowance, too, to those few theatres you said, which are open. Thirdly, even the actor who was forced to do a job outside the cultural area is entitled to do so on the condition that his last job as an employee is in the field of culture. Finally, I would like to go to the second part of your question - because I did not answer it - whether there is a plan to extend the unemployment subsidy for those who already receive the regular allowance of the unemployed. On 28 September, it was decided to extend the two-month extension of the payment for OAD unemployment benefits in the context of the new government support measures for the labour market and the immediate and effective relief of the unemployed. In particular, the two-month extension is mentioned - several of the people mentioned earlier - in the regular unemployment subsidy, in the grant of long-term unemployment, in the unemployment aid for self-employed workers. As I said before, to find these people, they must be written somewhere. In fact, I call on your colleagues to register on the platform that has been opened on this website. Eleven thousand five hundred have already been registered. I hope that other interested persons who have these characteristics will be enrolled in order to receive the corresponding aid. I would like to stress that we continue to monitor with great sensitivity the effects of pandemic on work as a whole and on the cultural sector in particular. In fact, you are right, the industry has been particularly affected in the present crisis. Workers in the sector, as you know better than I do because of your professional status, have particular needs that must go hand in hand with the protective framework provided for in labour and insurance legislation. I have analysed how the state is developing a series of tools to support workers in the field of culture. In this sense, therefore, I would once again stress that the potential beneficiaries will be able to take the necessary steps to benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the first with number 2/5-10-2020 on the second question of the Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The intrusion of retired people by the government with a possible cut of the one". Mr. Mulkiotis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, according to reports, another negative surprise awaits pensioners in the year 2021, as it appears that the government has decided to tax the one. In particular, according to the publications, on the grounds that neither the contributions nor the amount received by pensioners after leaving the service are taxed, plans to tax one-off one-off and because there is no retroactive tax on the contributions nor a future allocation on an annual basis of this amount, it is alleged that the government will choose 20% to make redundancy payments, as well as the sums above EUR 60,000. The workers, Mr Minister, have paid for decades of their contributions to the one-off, and it is politically inappropriate to base the government - and to support sustainability - on social automation and defamation of the social groups, which they are preparing to dismantle every time. The one-off has already reduced to 50% in the period of the economic crisis, in particular for applications submitted from 1-9-2013 onwards. A provision for the one-off tax is an implication that will probably lead to a reduction of up to 60% in relation to the original statutory provisions, resulting in successive reductions by a public pensioner, university education with thirty-five years' pre-service, rather than a single sum of around EUR 30 000, being made up of up to EUR 24 000. This one-off tax, Minister, if any, is expected to cause a wave of fleeing. This is self-evident in pensions from insured persons, who are indeed entitled to a pension but continue to work to ensure a better income. That's understandable, too. There are two questions, Minister. Are the publications true? This has to be clear. Are the publications correct that the government plans to tax it one-off? And if they are true, when is there any intention of this arrangement taking place? What applications do you include, the applications for retirement and those who have applied for a main pension or even those who have submitted the relevant documents for the receipt of the single pension? Finally, is this rumour somewhere in the New Democracy programme that today said that this is going to be the only way to tax it? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis. I must admit that when I read your question, I thought I would make the shortest possible intervention. I would say 'No, there is no such thought' and I would stop it at this point. Anyway, because we have the process, I'll follow it a little. Before I answer your question, I would like to inform the House and the citizens who are following us that, in October, together with the payment of pensions for November, retroactively, this has nothing to do with our own - both public and private. These will be unaccountable, irresponsible and will be entitled to the heirs of the deceased. The amount of retrospectives that correspond to each other will be taxed not this year but the next year. So that's retrospective. Now I would like to say a few words about your question. In the first place, the issue of taxation must be noted. I know you asked her to me, but normally the tax falls under the Treasury. It's okay. I'll answer after I've had the agreement. As far as I know and because I want to be clear and clear on this point, it has never been examined and it is not in the Government's intention to tax the one-off of Mrs and her supplementary insurance. As defined explicitly in the applicable Income Tax Code, the one-off benefit for main and ancillary insurance, from the welfare funds and public insurance institutions, is excluded from the calculation of wage earned income in accordance with Article 14 of Law No 4172/2013. Therefore, it would be appropriate not to display irresponsible publications which cause disruption and insecurity to the citizens. I repeat that the one-off is neither taxed nor there are plans in this direction, and that concerns the current pensioners and those who are going to be retired and who are looking forward to the one-off provision. There is therefore no cause for concern. The Ministry of Labour is working towards more efficient provision of services to citizens, with our first concern at this time simplifying and speeding up procedures for the award of digital pensions. This, of course, relates more to the answer to Mr Katsothotis' question which has been discussed earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a good thing that you give the Greek Parliament on this matter. It won't tax the one. We take it the way you say it. The question took place after press releases. It wasn't one, it was a lot. I put in the Minutes the relevant forms which are available in order to have them in the file. It wasn't something that came out like this. That's not what we said. We have seen reports that have been worried not only by Members of this House but by many people, as you can see. That is why the question has been asked, and I am pleased that you are emphatic about this. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Mulkiotis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] You said about the retrospectives that will be paid in a short time and will be unaccompanied, unaccompanied, etc. There is one issue, on the occasion of which you have raised it, Minister, in relation to the clearing. Banking institutions, as you know, need not be satisfied or the account is closed in order to offset claims. Even for one or two months there will be debts, there will be a debt obligation, if they find money in the account, they will proceed directly to the netting. It is an issue that the government has not tackled. To date, this has not been announced and I repeat, when the account has not been closed, there is no'red'. But when there's a one or two-month debt, if they find money and there's a delayed dose, they took it. So, you need to see this. It is a very serious issue for both the insured and the citizens in general. It would be good to clarify this once and for all in order to avoid any other unfavourable consequences. In addition to that, Mr Minister, on the occasion of the question which I have tabled and mentioned your explicit assurance, I would also like you to say to us - unfortunately we read in the press and leak things - if the State Budget Office in Parliament has finally made the delivery of the information that has to be delivered. Last time you replied to my timely question that there were some reasons why, in fact, the EPCA did not provide the particulars to the Parliament's Budget Office. Eventually, have these facts been given, or have they still not been given? And if they have not yet been given - why have we been informed that there is a new letter from the office to the Ministry in the form of a protest - why has the promise not been kept until 30 September? So have they been given? And if they have not been given, why have they not been given yet, Minister? Finally, there is also the information - because I am pleased that you are clear and unequivocal and any information is confirmed or disproved here - that it has been ordered not to proceed with the award of the single pension in order to provide the main pensions. Is that true? And she's leaking into the press. If I do not come back, it is an opportunity today to give us an answer to this question. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr. Undersecretary, did you say that it was irresponsible to retrospectives? Did I hear you well or did I make a mistake?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u64	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u65	That's right, I heard. Here, then, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u66	I'm trying to keep a few notes, because Mr. Mulkiotis asked for some other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u67	You have all the time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u68	Firstly, with regard to retrospectives, these are inappropriate both to third parties and to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u69	The issue is about credit institutions. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u70	I said it was irresponsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u71	Incompatible?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u72	The irresponsible includes the incoherent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u73	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u74	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u75	No, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u76	If it was different, they go to other purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u77	The amount shall be set aside. Unfortunately, this is also the case with credit institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u78	Irrespective of both public and third parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u79	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u80	That's what I understood. It's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u81	At least when I talked about it with the Ministry's lawyers, that was quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u82	That's what I'd say you should see it. It is a very important issue of netting. It's happened, and that's why I put it as a matter of fact. Excuse me for the interruption, Mr. President, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u83	It's very serious, and that's why I'm allowing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u84	You can see it with your lawyers the issue of netting when the account has not been closed, when it has not "red" the loan, i.e. there is a one-two-month debt, if it is cleared and we stick there. Only for credit institutions, not for others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u85	Anyway, because we talked about this particular issue, I'm going to ask them again. I'm not a legal person, but they were unequivocal when we talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u86	Good, Minister. I'm just bringing it back. I don't know. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u87	The second thing you said about the plan, the truth is that I answered Mr Kattotis beforehand. There is a plan, which will also be made public for the reduction of outstanding pensions and for how much they are for their distribution per month and how they are reduced, because they are actually decreasing in the last few years. All this will be by the end of the month ready and will be made public by the FBI. Finally, for what I said, the last one, I think you had asked me this question a few weeks ago and asked me about the ECA reserves. Is it possible to have as large reserves and not to give just one and give pensions, and especially from a sector that is extremely surplus, as is the one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u88	I am happy to give answers to the House and to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u89	Don't pay too much attention to the publications. You know that thing here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u90	It's from valid newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u91	For the publications to which you referred, I was also aware and did not even consider it important to respond. Myriad things I read every day, which have absolutely no status. Anyway, to close and be very brief, I would like to reiterate that we do not intend to surprise anyone. The supposed news of taxation for the single main and subsidiary insurance needs no further debate, since such a matter is a completely irresponsible matter. It would be useful to discuss matters that are really, as they are, and usually are, of concern to the citizens, and above all to ensure that rumours are not moved. We have an excellent relationship. With a simple call from you, I would have assured you of that, without having spent all the extra time. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would also like to thank Mr Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u92	And I thank both of you. Have a good time! We move on to the second question with No 27/5-10-2020 on the second question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "The inappropriate violence against health". Mr Katsotis, you have two minutes at your disposal to address the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the debate is taking place on the eve of the great demonstration against the criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn and the folk requirement that Nazis go to prison with the greatest sentences, and this is on the eve of the decision which vindicates the popular feeling, which is the result of the struggles against the Golden Dawn and those who gave it a step forward, to those who created it and supported it. These games revealed its criminal character, which is of course derived from fascist, nazi ideology. It is a struggle that has not ended and the people need to remain vigilant and vigilant and only with their struggle against the fascist system can end with it. But, Minister, once again we have witnessed the well-known recurring scene, with the MATs attacking with tear gas and auras with an obvious aim to dismantle the grand popular protest. There is no excuse and no alibi is acceptable to the action of a small number of provocative groups. The issue is not an operational matter, as the Government spokesman said. The government and the relevant ministry have enormous responsibilities. The question, therefore, about unnecessarily violence in health is a follow-up to what I have said. The government is intensifying authoritarianism and repression against those who fight and claim. The planning of the Security Councils is no other than the protection of business groups and ministries to which workers of sectors are addressed, to protest against the attack on workers, people's rights, against redundancies, wage cuts, pay cuts, the lack of health and safety measures at work, to claim solutions to problems. This is no other design, despite the suppression of the struggles from unnecessarily violence against the struggling health workers, to the heroes as you called them, which require recruitment and permanentization of the necessary personnel in the public health system, permanent and stable work, new intensive treatment units, individual protection facilities and a private health care plan to protect the people from the pandemic. This attack came to confirm that the implementation of the law on limiting demonstrations by clubs, chemicals and wood by MATs is aimed at the working-people movement that fights and claims, such as doctors and nurses who give in incrediblely difficult conditions the fight for the health of the people and not 'limited minorities', as you said, Minister, as the government said to justify the adoption of the law. The government is putting the 'extreme' people, with the limitation of social, democratic and trade union rights, with the intensity of exploitation, with the loss of workers, a constant deterioration in health, welfare and the protection of the people, in order to carry out the demands of capital uninterruptedly. What we are asking is whether this unnecessarily violent violence against health workers was a government order and, if not, what disciplinary measures you have taken against those who gave the order and if you intend to ensure the minimum democratic and trade union freedoms by prohibiting the presence of repression forces in labour, popular mobilisations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, good morning, you have three minutes at your disposal for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Katsotis, I have studied the contents of your current question several times. I must first point out that the way in which you are trying to capture the struggle of the health staff of our country to deal with the pandemic is unfair to them, but also to the whole of society and the state, standing by them every day. So let's see the big picture. This is a state mechanism that works uninterruptedly with all its powers, months now, through the battle of daily heroes of all kinds, against the spread of the CIVID virus -19. Doctors, nurses, Political Protection and Greek Police, all of them are struggling with the sole aim of protecting public health against the pandemic. So you will allow me not to adopt the logical and political analysis you are trying to take, as this is reflected in your timely question. The challenge is a common one for all of us, society and state: A successful response to the pandemic of COVID -19. As far as the incident referred to in your timely question outside the Ministry of Health was concerned, I would like to point out that it involved a planned concentration of about a hundred employees from the Ministry of Health employees, during which there was some tension. More specifically, while everything was rolling smoothly, it attempted, with the encouragement of the head of the road, the occupation of the roadway to stop traffic, despite the continuous recommendations of the police ombudsman, to remain concentrated on the sidewalk. After that, and given the number of participants and the particular circumstances that existed, the Greek Police forces tried to prevent the interruption of traffic and in this effort a police officer was injured by a hit taken by people who participated in this concentration. Subsequently, in order to avoid escalation of incidents, limited use was made of chemicals and, in particular, of a drop. For what happened in this incident outside the Ministry of Health, as well as for the injury of the police officer in the context of the above-mentioned necessary intervention by the Greek Police, I would like to stress that a preliminary administrative examination has already been carried out and the Citizens' Counselor has been informed immediately as a competent national arbitrary investigation mechanism. Finally, I would like to point out that a large number of mergers between trade unions and federations have been carried out smoothly, without the intervention of the Greek Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u96	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u97	Minister, your answer didn't expect it to be any different. You'd support the police forces. Of course, what makes us impression is what has been said, that the government is fighting, first of all, for the health of the people. We all know what the situation in the public transport sector is, what the situation in the workplace is, where one is stacked on each other. The responsibility for exacerbating the problem lies with the government, because the measures - the so-called health protocols - are adapted to the needs of the capitalist market - to say so - in the name of not closing down the business, to work for the workers. Businesses may not be closed and workers may be working, but under the measures that the government must impose on the scientific approach to the matter. But here, unfortunately, what prevails is the profits of the companies themselves. Minister, the constant attack in the context of the tension is well known to have to find itself with the people and find them. You voted for the law on the protests. It's a law that you invoked the small groups, the marginalities, which usually do the episodes. In the Ministry of Health they were doctors, they were nurses, they were known, they were health workers. What if they took the sidewalk so that they could protest to the government, because they do not hire staff to hospitals? What if they took the way to demand intensive treatment units so that people would not die? What was more acceptable? To shut down pavement or not all of this, not to put forward these demands for people's lives? He can't get into the balance, Minister, one with the other. The demands were fair and are requests supported by all the people and, unfortunately, against the forces of repression. They didn't find themselves against the trade unionists. They were found against the people, found against all those who want to fight. The government gives a message saying 'law and order, heads in'. So what does "thousand people" mean? That's a hundred you guys say. It was more than that. But you know very well that the doctor can't leave the hospital. Some people are leaving, though. He can't let the sick die. They were representatives, union presidents, secretaries, boards, representatives of all these workers in hospitals and treated in this way. We are sure that the new attack on the workers' trade union organization by limiting the demonstrations, the electronic vote on unions established by a government law next to provisions, which give the industrialists warm money, all this is together. For business groups, ensure immunity and ensure it with the repression forces you are sending. There's no mobilization in a factory, no repression forces outside. What's the point? They're employees of a factory they're claiming. Why should the repression forces be at the service of the entrepreneur? On the other hand, we have the attack on the trade union organisation, the restriction of demonstrations, the protection of trade unions, the right to strike. What's all this? Respect for order with repression or the 'carrot' many times, to incorporate a world into the logic of crossing this anti-grassroots policy, these measures which are necessary for the profits and not for the lives of our people who are undermining, a life of unemployment, poverty, and impoverishment. This people will fight no matter how much forces of repression against them. He can't stay like this, he can't be a sorcerer. He knows who his enemy is. His enemy is this barbarity, this system that takes his bite out of his mouth. It is not an enemy of the people fighting, Minister. You know very well what our position on the Security Body is and what should be their orientation, common crime and not the working people's movement. Of course, it is the government - each government - and every minister from his attitude to the people's movement. We know very well that state repression is a choice of the system and, of course, it is not a matter of a minister or government, which is why we say that the working people's movement should aim to the real opponent, which is the system of exploitation, poverty and injustice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, in the light of what has been said in the current question, I should like to point out, in the most emphatic way, that there is no government mandate for violence by the police forces against citizens in any way. This would, moreover, escape the democratic principles and the rule of law, which the government has as a competitor and which the government is dissatisfied with, and any other democratically elected government. Some are looking to find an opportunity to leave a head for the police's democratic conception. I must remind you that all the investigations into the unlawful actions and behaviours of the leadership and the members of the Golden Dawn have evolved from the services of the Greek Police. The material of the preliminary interrogations, on which the arguments against the Golden Dawn were based, was a product of persistent and methodical investigation by the Greek Police. As in the case of terrorism, in the case of Golden Dawn, the police are the crucial arm of the state, which ensures the adequacy, stability and defence of the democratic culture against any threat, always in the context of the implementation of the current legislation and the Constitution. It is unfair to charge charges at the expense of the Greek policeman, often with the sole aim of causing temporary political impressions. The Greek Police act within the framework of the Constitution and the existing institutional framework, with the main aims of respecting legality and absolute respect for the individual freedoms and rights of citizens. It also has the necessary reflexes and mechanisms to isolate and punish those who are unpleasant exceptions to the vast majority of Greek Police officials who fight daily with the challenges of our time. In conclusion, I would like to make a further point. Our country since the beginning of July has a new democratic framework, as the Constitution lays down, for public gatherings and meetings. Government targets are double and clear: absolute respect for the right of assembly and at the same time safeguarding is not excessively disturbed for the socio-economic life of a region, as the Constitution requires. It is our duty to ensure normality in the lives of citizens in a difficult, confessed, circumstance for all of us, and that is what we are doing every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too. The fifth will be discussed under number 18/5-10-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Strength of the depreciation of the Tritsis Park'. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when Mr Hatzidakis on August 20, 2019, almost fourteen months ago, he visited Tritsi Park, he said he saw an unacceptable picture. He saw with his eyes dead fish and incomplete guard. With his perception, in relation to management, the ministries are not park managers, money is not, there was no effective management, and the park passed the district with a bill. He said quite precisely: 'Wait a few months and I think you will agree with us that the intervention we made is a proper intervention'. We waited fourteen months. Right now, a lot of the trees have been dried up. In June they had to carry all the fish they had survived from the fifth tank, from the fifth lake to the fourth one, which had been sealed with the previous body. There is still a plan approved for the waterproofing of the lake. We're talking about a park, which right now has some lakes, which are holes. No matter how much water it falls, it goes away and it's a big part of the problem. This money has been frozen by changing the regime from the Ministry to the region. For guarding there is only one person for all this vast area of the metropolitan park. There is anguish among the citizens and residents that this depreciation of the park aims to privatize, and in fact, those who work there are paid and work in a really damaged park. So as far as the questions are concerned, Mr. Secretary, you have no role. It's a matter of Mr. Hatzidakis. It was a central political decision, but I would like your assessment, and if you would like the apologies to the people of western Athens, to the inhabitants of western Athens for this picture we are seeing today - which one would say is clearly worse than the problems that were before - and how you really plan to change this situation and if you think about returning the park to the previous administration or what you think about this deadlock, which you have created in many of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Tagaras, good morning. You have three minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Arsenis for his question. It is true that the picture observed last year at the visit of Minister Hatzidakis was an abandonment picture and does not fit in such an important and symbolism, but also in terms of a metropolitan park, the Antonis Tritsis Park. I mean, the Ministry of the Environment is unable to manage large urban green areas. The Ministry of the Environment has a final role to play, and for that very reason it granted with Law 4635/2019, as referred to in Article 204, the management of the metropolitan park "Antonis Tritsis" in the Attica region by the Ministry of the Environment, which was then managed. This is because the tools and instruments needed to support, maintain, exploit and protect such a park cannot and does not have the Ministry of the Environment. The Region of Attica, as a body, is closer to the municipalities in this park, which are administratively responsible, is the closest but also the most essential and effective to manage, maintaining, protecting and raising the Antonis Tritsis park. There were many working meetings with both the mayors and the mayors, as well as representatives of local communities. This was the result of the transfer of competence, because we all know that those closest to the local government are the municipality, the region, the social institutions, the scientific bodies. It is for this reason that the appointment of the management board of the regional authority, involving representatives of the Region of Attica and the Municipalities of Ilio and Agia Anargyros - Kamaterou, as well as representatives of the civil society and the scientific community, has been envisaged. Since December 2019, the decision to appoint a board of directors has been adopted, as you are surely aware. The President of the body is the Professor of the Agricultural University Mr. Zogragravakis and members of the Mayor of Ilios Mr. Zenetos, the General Secretary of the Municipality of Athon Anargyro - Kamaterou and the Vice-President of the Volunteers Association of the Municipality of Ilios for the Environment and Culture. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Through these procedures, it called for funding for the Green Fund for the environmental, aesthetic and operational upgrading of the Antonis Tritsis Metropolitan Park, a work budget of EUR 3 million, which was adopted by the Green Fund Council last July. In my dentistry, I will fill out the information you have requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u104	Mr Arseni, you've got three minutes and you've got your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I wonder what Mr. Hatzidakis has visited the park since 20 August 2019? Has he gone to see the results of his decision? We are talking about a metropolitan park in a degraded environmental area of Athens, due to the HYTAVA Physics, due to the transported from the Triumph of Pollution, where breaths, breaths are necessary. It's a really beautiful place, really disgraced and unequivocal to what it could be. Was that finally a communication show by Mr. Hatzidakis? Because, otherwise, I would expect Mr. Hatzidakis to go and see how the park's situation is today. Obviously, the responsibility does not belong to the municipalities and belongs to the region. This park has been headless for too many months. Our information is that there are still no meetings of the board of directors. The situation has reached the unpredictable. You really need to assume your responsibilities and make your self-criticism. What went wrong? How wrong could your decision have been, and in particular, what will be done from now on? There was a commitment to sealing the fifth lake, artificial lake. This work never went through the void of authority that was created. We expect to see what is going to happen with these 3 million that you have announced will be released from the Green Fund. But are there any studies? What's the procedure? How far are we to see this park running and when will Mr Hatzidakis finally go tell us what the situation is today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni. Mr. Tagara, you have three minutes to answer Mr. Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that in one year the image has not changed, because it was an abandonment image. The financing has been approved, the 3 million as requested by the management body and the project has been included in the ‘Natural Environment 2020’ financial programme. As you know, the Green Fund finances refreshments and green projects throughout Greece, to all local authorities, with the aim of transforming the Antonis Tritsis park into what it really deserves, in a green lung and sustainable space of recreation and entertainment not only for western Athens, but for the whole Lefkonod. The project therefore has a total budget of EUR 3 million and a duration of eighteen months, starting in September 2020 and ending in February 2022. It provides for interventions at three levels: first, the creation of a smart route, which will run the long axis of the park with bioclimatic materials, with the renovation of selected areas of public urban space and an increase in urban greenery. Secondly, the restoration - because you mentioned - of the sealing of the fifth lake and the canal, which connects the fifth lake to the sixth lake. The maintenance of the lakes and the minimisation of leaks in the management and protection of the established wetlands of the site are among the main purposes of the management body. Thirdly, the supply of equipment, infrastructure and the development of smart applications in order to make the park an attractive attraction for visitors. In order to implement the interventions directly, the Green Fund has already made available EUR 91,250, which is a burden on the 2020 budget. Disbursements will be made on the basis of project planning and project implementation. With regard to the question of workers, indeed the number of workers is a total of five: the Director-General, three cleaning workers and one seconded employee since 30 September 2020. In these circumstances, the manpower management body of the “Antonis Tritsis” park attempts to cover the lost territory of the previous years and speed up the aesthetic, functional and environmental upgrading of the park. Among other things, the management body in the previous period has carried out work on the restoration of the fountain, the expansion of the water supply network, deforestation of dry grass, a call of interest for maintenance services of the wooden elements of the park bridges and routes, in an invitation of interest for the outdoor theatre services within the park. These interventions come to deal with many of the issues you have mentioned for the maintenance of green, urban infrastructure and lakes and routes. In terms of a park management body there is an overall effort to restore and revive it. With the support of the Attica Region, the neighbouring municipalities, civil society and environmental organisations and, of course, the Ministry of Environment and Energy - I believe - this image must be changed. I would add that in Law 4635, which also referred to in Article 204, there is a monthly payment from the central independent resources of the region to finance the needs imposed by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister for the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-09-S1-commons.u109	With the agreement of the House at 11.31 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 12 October 2020 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
