ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the House's 27-2-2020 authorisation, PH's minutes of the PRACULAR Sessions of Thursday, February 27, 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.C.A.).(')']] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the questions to be discussed. Only one will not be discussed, after a Minister and a Member of Parliament have been consulted. It is the fourth under number 536/19-2-2020 of the First Cycle of the MP of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Disfession and sale of the Public Gas Company (PPC)”. We are starting the debate on topical and urgent questions with the first cycle. These are three questions which will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. We begin with the first with number 537/24-2-2020, the first question of the first cycle of the MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Hussein Zabek to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The municipal roadwork of the Kentavros settlement of the Municipality of Mykes". Mr. Zabeck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 the project of municipal road construction Centauri of the Municipality of Mykes had joined the NRF and the necessary studies had been carried out at the time. However, he responded unreservedly by decision of the relentless Provincial Director, Mr. Pavlides. However, the residents of Centaurus did not stop claiming this project, which is very important to the settlement. I know that very well, because I, as a pharmacist, started my career in the village, in Kentavros. This road leads specifically to the village's field, to the cemetery of the village, to farms, to the fields, to the fields, to the fields, but mainly to a regional road that ensures timely access from one end of the settlement to the other. This is of paramount importance for emergency situations, for ambulances and fire-fighting vehicles. This particular settlement is the largest of the Municipality of Mykes, with three thousand inhabitants. Access, anyway, is difficult, because it is a densely populated area, it is also the mountain. At the end of 2017, during the SYRIZA conference of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, the Minister, Mr. Spirtzis, visited the Municipality of Mykis and the municipal council, and there I expressed the view that this road is important for the village and must be built. In May 2019, the decision to sign a programming contract was adopted, with a budget of up to 2.100,000 euros between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Municipality of Mykes. Subsequently, in July 2019, a decision was adopted by the Minister of Economy and Development to join the Public Investment Programme and the appropriations for this project were approved. As far as I know from the communication I have had with the competent department of your Ministry, all the necessary steps have been taken and all that remains is your political decision and the tendering of the project. Also, there is a unanimous decision also made by the municipal council of the Municipality of Mykes. Seven months after the approval of the project, your ministry has shown frugality, Minister, and has not proceeded with any action to implement it. On the basis of the above, you ask, Minister, why are you delaying the implementation of this project and whether or not you intend to go ahead with it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think it is extremely revealing because, with the very question and the development of the question you are asking itself, I find that the delay is due to the previous government and I will tell you where the seven-month delay is due. You yourself said a moment ago, Mr. Colleague, that the project was answered in 2014. It has been two years since he visited your municipality, as you said. That is, from 2015 to 2017 and from 2017 to 2019 there is nothing going on. So I think we have a four-year time dimension with that of seven months. You use terms that we 'frozen'. You will allow me to say that this does not correspond to the reality. We fully understand the particularity of the region, as you quite rightly described the problem that exists in the municipality and proof of this is that we did not answer the project from the EDP in 2019 and maintained it in our budget of EUR 2.1 million. There is a decision, Mr. Colleague, December 132763 of 2019 of the Deputy Minister of Development and Investment, which approves the project of municipal road construction in the settlement of Centaur Municipality of Mykes for the PPC of 2019. That was three months ago. Therefore, the Government and the new leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure has shown that it has not just left the project, but that it has maintained it in programming. As for the delay of the three months - because we are talking about this and not the four years - I have to answer and I am very happy to say that there have been obligations of a large scale of natural disasters, such as in Samothraki, Crete and the Ministry, as in these cases, and the services have given him immediate priority in restoring these urgent damages suffered by the infrastructure networks in regions affected by natural disasters. I do not want to go into specific details, such as, for example, what we did for the new bridge of the Keritis River in Chania in six months, when for two years there had been nothing, nor in the signing of a programme contract for the crayon set up in Samothraki, to demonstrate the effectiveness shown by the Ministry in relation to what was previously happening. I would just mention this to explain to you why we did not respond and responded with absolute priority to these damages, and we therefore switched over in time for the second quarter of 2020 the implementation of the project to the Municipality of Mykes. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, I can assure you that the services of the Ministry have so far drafted and shaped, always in cooperation with the Services of the Municipality of Myce, the draft programme contract, which must be sent immediately and which will be sent to the Court of Auditors, as always, for its adoption. Then there will be a programme agreement on the implementation of the project and I would therefore ask you to make a little patience. The project is being planned and we will be ready, as I told you, in the second quarter of 2020 to start with the auctioning of a project that had been delayed for four and a half years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Colleague, Mr. Zabeck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u7	Minister, thank you very much for understanding the necessity of this project. Indeed, it's very serious for the village. It's the living village of the area, the others have been devastated. Centauri's gonna take breath, that's worth it. This has become a Greek series since 2014. Of course, I am pleased with your intention to implement. Of course, we're patient. Since 2014, we have been patient. You replied that the SYRIZA government was too late. But you know it was the memorial period and we couldn't. But then, in 2014, he was in the ESRB and was European money and responded without justification. I'm not going in there either, that's not important. But to know what happened and what resources the Ministry found at the time were national resources. This is very important and I hope with your commitment that the work will soon be done and I expect you to be also in the opening of the village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u8	Well, it went well. Minister, do you want a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u9	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u10	I just saw that my colleague was pleased. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u11	I just wanted to say that there is a constant state. That is what I think we should stress in Parliament's Chamber. We, as we told you, continued and did not respond to this project from the EDP. I have a chance here to say that there is a huge issue not only in your municipality, but also in many municipalities with specific road construction projects. The municipalities, unfortunately, because we have an ageing infrastructure, do not have the capacity to finance these projects themselves and come to the central administration, to the central government, and they ask for immediate aid to do their job. The demands for these aids are, as you can see, always much more than the available amounts we have. It is good to try, as you quite rightly said, for these projects to draw funds from co-financed tools, from the ESDP and from other co-financed procedures, because that is where we do not have absorption and it is money that the European Union gives us for this process. Because it is very easy for someone who sits in each ministry's chair to give money from the EDP at once. This procedure seems to me to have reached a point which often has an irrationality, Mr President, and it is important to correct it. In this case, however, as you have rightly mentioned, Mr Colleagues, this work has gone through 'thousand waves' and we understand the necessity of this work. That is why it has been launched and we are immediately awaiting the Court of Auditors' approval, as is done in all these cases, in order to fully respect legality and start work in the second half of 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u12	We're moving on to the second question. It is the first under number 538/24-2-2020 of the second question by the SYRIZA MP, Harry Mamoulakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Enlargement of the European Investment Bank (EIB)" to exploit the extent of Heraklion Airport "N. KAZADZAKIS’. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 23 January you signed with the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank the EUR 180 million loan contract for the cofinancing of the airport of Kastelion, a loan agreement which effectively covered the participation of the Greek State by 45.9%. The contract therefore presents as a backdrop of funding the study maturation and use of the extent of the ‘N’ airport. KAZANDZAKIS», an area that is in contact with the city of Heraklion and is currently using the airport and, of course, its retraining is a very important case. The question of the form, the body and its financing is also open, and it is left to the discretion of the State whether the area will be developed in the form of public works or through financing through PPPs or, in any case, the private sector. The government's draft, which has emerged from the statements made by the Minister, demonstrates the utilization of innovation proposals, the well-known unsolicited infrastructural proposaals, known as the European Investment Bank's practice in the past for countries mainly outside Europe. We'll talk about it, I guess, further. At this point it should be noted that local government - there are similar publications, I imagine, Minister - has shown its displeasure about its absence and the total ignorance of the compromise procedure in this way. We now go to the essential part, which is the questions, and that is where I think it is. First question. Will the new airport project stop at the location of Kastelio? At this point I simply stress that it is directly related to any disbursement for the progress of work by studying maturation, abstraction of the ownership status of the current airport 'N'. KAZADZAKIS” with the work of Kastelio. Question two. Why does the Government choose the process of innovation proposals rather than the institutionalised process of competitive dialogue, known as Article 29, which, as I said, is provided by the existing institutional framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, this is the fourth time I have answered this issue. And here is a question of comparing how seriously the members of this government take the process in Parliament, unlike when we were on the benches where you are today and you in the government where they were never answering on time, and often the topical questions have never been answered. Let's get things started, so we can clear up a few issues. The compromise, Mr President, and the conditions laid down by the European Investment Bank have been agreed upon. In fact, this work, as I have said to all my public interventions, is a project that has been under way for many years and has been compatible with SYRIZA. And that's right. Compatibility with the concession procedure. When you were, of course, at the bars in the opposition, you said that you were against all forms of concession. But let's talk about this in another phase. As you quite rightly said, the foundation ceremony was held and the first step was taken to pass a decisive project in Heraklion Prefecture, but also in the wider Crete and to put Crete on the transport map of the Eastern Mediterranean. It is a project that will create seven thousand new jobs and is an investment that will exceed EUR 1 billion. We, Mr President, have said what you say about unsolicited proposals since we were opposition. So I don't think they should be very surprised. What we are saying is that we will not allow this area to become what happened with the Greek. Once in this country I think we should learn, especially the political class, from the mistakes of the past. So we do not want to turn "N". KAZADZAKIS" in a new Greek and our aim is to create a great deal of added value. That is why we signed with the European Investment Bank the well-known funding, which is their contribution to national participation. I can say that in your question you do not adopt the term'support', as other SYRIZA colleagues do, because it is not a mortgage. The European Investment Bank simply says, in our view, something very good. He says that "if you want to fund Kastelli, we have to do something about "N." KAZADZAKIS’. We have said that we will come to an absolute agreement and dialogue with the local bodies and that we are proposing and institutionalising together with the changes that we need to make in L.4412/2016 - and in terms of good legislature we will do so in a bill - and the unsolicated proposals proposal, to see whether we can use this new tool and the new model, which is also used in other countries of the European Union. If I do not eat time - because the President is very strict on these issues - I will answer to my dentistry what the differences are and why we prefer this solution to competitive dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u16	If it makes it easier to place my colleague in dentistry, can you fill this in for a minute too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u17	No, I'll do everything together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u19	First of all, there has been an unanswered question about the commitment, due to the extreme function of the Kastelion Convention by using the "N". KAZADZAKIS’. But I'm actually going. I see that you have consumed most of your time to mention the airport of Kastelli, which is basically not our concern today. It's a work of SYRIZA government, which, of course, you have founded, but I think it brings the signature of Alexis Tsipras and the government of SYRIZA in the previous period. However, I think we are actually going to do this because I would like to expose two or three things in my dentistry. If really, Minister, you are interested in local government and the reason why it is going to have the course and use the studying maturity of this project, I imagine you will incorporate a vetoing right into the maturation of unsolicated proposals. I see that you have expelled and embodied in the philosophy of your own government and, in fact, ahead of the election that you are enthusiasts of this kind of practice. Mr President, I should like to put forward a report from the World Bank on unsolicated infrastructural proposals, which demonstrates precisely this, Minister, that they are governed by a lack of transparency and a lack of competition. Because a special purpose vehicle is qualified. The individual in question may have a higher priority in maturing than others. In fact, I will mention the example of Italy, which is the only country in the European Union following this tactic, which is now being criticised, not just by the European Court of Justice itself, but by the Commission for the wrong practices through unsolicited proposals. The sub-Saharan African countries are the ones who use it on the cork with many examples. I shall therefore put this before you, Mr President, in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Mamoulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the issue that remains unanswered - and I would really like an answer to that, Minister - it is this. First of all, I'd like to give you a parentheses. We have tabled this, and we are asking as SYRIZA for the contract, because we have only the draft contract, we do not know the content that has been finally signed. I imagine that will be submitted to the House shortly. It's been a month, but I'm talking about it because it's up to the question. And I'm going to the last question that's the following. All disbursements for the progress of operations at Kastellio airport are linked to maturity at ‘KAZADZAKIS’. The first part, the first milestone, the first milestone, is essentially about the crystallisation of the property regime for a surface of three thousand hundred and thirty-five squares, of which the Municipality of Heraklion has a share of around 23% -24%. So you realise that it is very important to clarify the property status of the subject so that we can move on to a serious study - a spatial plan with the municipality and our local society present. They can't be absent. Hence my report on the veto right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How is it possible that we do not have any work progress at Kastelli, when there is a landmark, as I have told you, for each disbursement the maturation to "KAZADZAKIS". And you know, the first part with the property can be passed to speed up procedures, which are of course a little long-term. But what about the question of the choice of the private person to enter? What about the issue, the most important one, which your partners know, regarding the General Urban Plan and the special spatial area that should exist in the region? It's very critical. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u20	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u21	Obviously, what I told you and repeat something was not understood. The terms of the loan have not been negotiated by us, dear colleague. You negotiated them. Your government's compliance and terms with the EIB milestones approved them. Indeed, in my personal view and in the view of the government, he did very well. Therefore, these questions might well be to put them to Mr Spiritzis and to have an internal dialogue, to consult each other, so that you are not exposed. Now let me tell you something very simple about unsolicited proposals. I agree with you, it's something new. I agree with you that in many cases problems have been created. But they do not only use African countries. Switzerland is also using this process to a great deal of success. We believe that this will also help municipalities to do projects, but it will also help many other agencies, such as the EBRD. We do not say that all works will be done with unsolicited proposals. Okay? And the competitive dialogue, which is indeed institutionalised, has so far not worked. The Salamis submarine I think is a classic example of how the works go back. What do we say? We say something very simple. In Greece we have huge delays with the projects. I will tell you a statistic that we have the twice-year maturation and execution of major infrastructure projects from the European average. So in this process, you bring a private person and you tell him to come here and give me a suggestion. Because you know, many times, private individuals - and this is a fixed, I think, disagreement between the two political areas we are serving - may have a better idea than the one that has a public service. As far as the Greek, as you remember, the airport has left the southern suburbs since 2001, if I remember correctly, we are still discussing when the Greek will begin. So what do we say with unsolicited proposals? We're saying there's a private person coming in and making a proposal. The contracting authority, the Ministry, the municipality, may reject this proposal or embrace it. In order to make this proposal, however, the individual, this company, the consortium that will come, for example, at KAZANDZAKIS, must have made a studied and costly proposal, which means that he will have paid money for pre-selects. So he won't say an idea that isn't based anywhere. Then what does the contracting authority do if it shares and adopts this proposal? It opens the competitive process and anyone can come and participate. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We shall adopt this specific proposal. We're not ideological. We're not saying we're gonna follow 100% of this model. We're gonna try it 'cause we have time. As far as the European Investment Bank Convention is concerned, it has very specific milestones. I've filed it in the House. We fully agree with these milestones. Because you are from this particular area and I know that you will have a lot more interest than we have the rest that we are not from there, not living and not living both Heraklion Prefecture and Crete its phenomenon of repeating the Greek as a farce. It is therefore very good that we have an external pressure, the European Investment Bank, which says something very simple. To give you the money to make the new airport, you won't be sitting there looking at the old one. You're gonna have to do some things and show that you have to use it. So, we're not talking about a mortgage, and we're not talking about any risk of doing the project in Castelli. It is in the hands of the Greek state once to get serious - and when I talk about the Greek state, I am not only talking about the central government, but about the municipalities and about the region - and to stop saying things from our heads that are very nice and say concrete proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u22	We move to the third with number 539/24-2-2020 on the second question of the Thessaloniki Rizzo-Spain Coalition Mr.Akaterini Notopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Progress made by the Metro of Thessaloniki". Here, Mrs Notopoulou, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately, I am in the extremely unpleasant position to bring back the question of Thessaloniki metro in the Greek Parliament once again. And I say this because, beyond the political debate, the daily life of the Thessalonians becomes unbearable day after day and on the basis of your handling on the issue of OSH. But let's talk about the subway. You know very well that by government SYRIZA the metro was almost completed. The project, that is, from 30% to 75%. You know that. Although you were questioning it in the run-up to the election, I think you are now obliged to admit it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u24	You've had a nice opening!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u25	And since I can't tell you again, then, that tunnels are over from the train station at the new railway station to Kalamaria through the extension. You know we found a solution to stay Venizelos' ancients, as we had to do under the archaeological law. You know that the procedure for resolving economic disputes has been agreed. You know that Venizelos station was separated from the rest of the project and at the end of 2020 we would have a metro with twelve of the thirteen stations running. You know that there was a definitive timetable and, above all, that the roads were freed and that the citizens also saw it. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister of the country, we do not know whose recommendation, certainly not from technical services, certainly without a feasibility study, certainly without comparative studies, certainly without any scientific documentation, announced that he would postpone the completion of the metro from 2020 to 2023. In fact, the Minister for Culture, Mrs Mendoni, has made the decision of the CSCE a few days later in a committee that I took part in and asked. You know that there are no approved studies and no permits for the solution you prefer for the Venizelos station. So we wonder how you think it is possible to complete the metro in the timetable you have announced without any technical condition being met. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So this is a project that has now been completed at 75% by the SYRIZA government with financial flows tripled from all previous decades, because since 1986 the right of our city has been afflicted by our right. Do you know that he had a thousand two hundred subway workers and today employs less than a hundred? With which workers is a project being carried out? You have presented an unprecedented inactivity. For eight months you have presented nothing at all, apart from a well-deserved performance with the visit of your Secretary-General, in a work that had again been completed in the government of SYRIZA. So I ask you, Minister, beyond your opposition and beyond your willingness to tarnish SYRIZA - why are you still oppositioning SYRIZA, I do not think you are going ahead with the project - are you aware of this pause, that no work is being done? Who has given this order? What moves has he made - and this is the crucial, Minister - the 'ATTIC MERO' to protect the public interest in the contractor who will request and claim compensation? Is it true that there is a claim in this regard? What evidence do you base on finishing the subway in 2023? What is the progress of the project?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u26	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u27	I would like you to allow me, Mr President, before I begin my answer, to correct, as we always do here in the government, the evidence you have presented, which does not correspond to the reality once again. First, on the subway to Thessaloniki, dear colleague, his work was stopped for your own days in February 2019. The expenditure certified on 31-12-2015 of the main project Thessaloniki amounted to 392 million euros, i.e. 40% of completion and not 30%. That's the first mistake. Secondly, on 31 August 2019, when the new administration took over, the expenditure amounted to 739 million euros, 70% rather than 75%. So the so-called trillion you're referring to is not even doubling. And we've been talking for four years. The facts you present are not relevant to reality. You also say something else that does not apply, that the 'CTUR' by a thousand two-two employees is now employing less than a hundred. There's nowhere to be officially available unless you have a special briefing from the contractor we don't have. And now we're going to the main question. I am sincerely sorry that you are using the parliamentary procedure to show your own incredible inadequacy in the four years in which you have been ruling. You're accusing us of delaying the project. Don't you think? With the appeals filed - and in which SYRIZA was in many cases behind these appeals, let us not hide - from 2015 to 2017 there was absolutely nothing about the Venizelos station. But from 2017 up to two and a half years later, nothing progressed with your so-called solution. These are so that we don't have the so-called make news to which I see you have a very big appeal. Because you have also reached the unbelievable point, which has never been in the history of a European country, to inaugurate mustards. Do you remember that? I guess that's when you were there, and you went home. And then you had caused the anger of the Thessalonians. So what have we done in the last eight months? You're accusing us of having done nothing. What do they say about the official information we have at our disposal? Work progressed by 5.46%. The first quarter of the new administration work has gone ahead and we have now reached the completion of almost 78% of the project. So we in four months did what you didn't do in eight months. And the rhythms have doubled. The reason why you don't see an orgasm being carried out right now on the subway is that the computers enter, the electrical systems enter, because as you quite rightly said in your question, a very large part of the project has been completed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm going to tell you something that I've said as Opposition. The subway has indeed proceeded on your own days because the process has been unlocked by the S.H.I.E. which had been stuck since 2013, the legal process. And the tunnels went ahead. What we blame you and we can prove it to you is that the solution you have chosen for Venizelos was the pleasure of the contractor. And why was the contractor's joy? Be careful, Mrs Notopoulou, when you get up in the Chamber here and tell us about the money that the contractor is in danger of getting, because on your days, with your own inadequate movements, the contractor finally went to arbitration and took a sack of money, more than 300 million, to delay the project. Because when the contractor and the consortium go to a referee, he goes to claim the money he has to get because of the frugality of the Greek public. So let's leave this confrontation behind us. I will be ready to tell you why your proposal was a proposal that would create even greater delays on the Thessaloniki metro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u29	Minister, I am truly sorry and honest because what you have said, and you are Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, is truly arbitrary. You know well what the absorption of funds was, which have tripled at a speed of our own government. I don't know if I heard you well, but did you say it was 40% of the project and now it's up to 78%? Witch Copperfield be, less quickly you'd do it! The reality is, however, that you have not answered any of the questions. Because we do live in Thessaloniki and see that there are no workers there working and working. You can tell us in your dentistry per month and what subcontractors are employed by how many employees and what work. Because it is well known that in the inspection you carried out it was a very well-deserved performance, you got workers from other construction sites, other machinery. In any case, because you spoke of mustards and it was a pleasant challenge, first of all throughout the previous period of the opposition of the New Democracy, you were talking about mustards for a special job that only concerned the ticket. You know that very well. And you did not hesitate to make a mussel of the country's cultural heritage. So we are talking about a crossroad of incredible cultural and archaeological value and, I say, you have pre-empted the decision of the CSCE when the Prime Minister and Minister Mendoni announced without any scientific documentation and no technical study. As to how projects are decided in this country and who decides them, it is certainly not the archaeologists whom you blamed. The technical services, which you yourself head for, certainly, do not decide. I would also remind you that by speaking of the cars that we brought in and opened, and you were accusing us at that time, you said, your Secretary-General, that there will be test operations in just 200 meters instead of the whole line. What would you do with the test function? With Play Mobil, Minister? So, please, you can answer what you want with arbitrary data. However, you should give the Thessalonians an answer. And this answer is the completion of the metro in the timetable that existed before, that is, at the end of 2020, would operate the metro in Thessaloniki and on the basis of your own data, it would not work in 2023 either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of thirty two students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 6th Drama High School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u31	Mrs Notopoulou, it's really a comedy thing to say and I'm sorry to say it and I'm explaining it. There was no approved study in your level 2 proposal and an application study. Your proposal did not have signatures and studies at the CAS. Secondly, you did not have revised environmental conditions, measurements, costing, approval and I am talking about the Venizelos station. Are you saying it would be the station and the whole subway ready in 2020? I'm calling you two to Thessaloniki next week in Venizelos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u32	I'm there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u33	...to see that nothing had been done at all except the fun. Who are you finally kidding? Your neighbors? With what you've done to OSH, with the most inappropriate statism, do you come and shake our finger when you handed us over two hundred thirty buses? The urban transport in Thessaloniki is falling apart because for four years you have been experimenting. What do we say? That the metro must function uniformly rather than partially. Because if some were to work in 2021, it would have to be when Venizelos station was delivered into operation to stop the entire metro operation for eighteen months. Do you understand the excitement you've made as Opposition? And you did this because you knew you would not be in the government and would have the luxury of sitting in the seat of the opposition and swinging our finger on the deadlocks that you have led us. In fact, with your own tactics, with the secondment and relocation, which was right in Agia Sophia, we will do the same at Venizelos Station. It is a practice that has been done in other cities, such as Athens and other cities in Europe. The metro, therefore, is to be given complete by April 2023. We say this: we have spent EUR 135 million on archaeological excavations - and that is good to hear in this Chamber - on the Thessaloniki metro, EUR 135 million! The Greek taxpayer has spent 135m euros on excavations in Thessaloniki! Do you know how much the Acropolis Museum cost in Athens? It cost 120 million. So this confrontation between the archaeologists and between the "ATTITIC METRO" must once be stopped. And we must once say that in this country we can also protect our cultural heritage, but also live in the 21st century. In short, we prefer something that is clear: we want both metro and ancient and do not follow proposals that are unrealistic. Because I explained that you had done nothing, nothing at all, for the Venizelos station and for the appeals that you and your company - I mean the wider company of SYRIZA - go and do, the Venizelos station is not even started at the moment. We're talking about the main station for the subway system of Thessaloniki. To understand it and the Athenians who might be watching us, it's like delivering a subway without the station in the Constitution. That was the excellent idea you had, because in these ideas, these terrible nuts I have to say that you have appealed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We therefore say the obvious, we say, that we are changing the decision of the CSCE as we do. All studies were submitted and this time they are signed. In fact, the CSCE had the means of rapporteurs that were in the previous decision. The ministerial decision comes out, the proceedings start, so that once...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u34	When? Two months...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Notopoulou, the works have begun. Your government had stopped it in February 2019. You guys had frozen all the Metro procedures after your inauguration. Therefore, programming is until April 2023 the metro is in operation in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u36	Minister, we have other questions concerning other regions. We're not eating all our time with the Thessaloniki Metro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u37	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is the objective, and we have even secured the metro to have funding for the next programming period, which you have not done. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u38	The first cycle of questions is completed and we go to the second. Now we will discuss the second question with number 545/25-2-2020 on the second question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health on "Problems in the functioning of the General Hospital of Drama". He will always reply to the Secretary of State for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have the school that's from Drama!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u40	He conspired to hear about the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u41	Happily juncture! I think, Minister, that the most appropriate word for Drama's Hospital is the word'missiles'. Of course, you will tell me that this word is consistent with the state of health in our country, but let us look at it a little more specifically. Of the hundred and twelve doctors that Drama Hospital should have, at this time she has less than half of her, fifty-three, and even with an organization far less than she should be: Three anaesthetics, please, at Drama Hospital, which means that the surgery operates marginally. What about nursing and paramedical staff? I barely get the shifts out with a lot of intensification of their work. You'll probably say hiring. What we know is that there are two recruits of injured and a nurse for 2020. Of course, I do not know exactly what these three people will cover, as you can see, but let us tell you that in 2021, or next year, at least thirty workers will be separated from nursing staff. Minister, there are serious problems for the rest of the staff of the hospital, because a hospital has a variety of staff. Its technical service is literally declining and thirty - three employees who were a few years ago are about twenty. There are shifts literally in the hospital where there is no electrician with what this may mean for the operation of a hospital. On the other hand, there are too many shortcomings in administrative staff. A caller at the phone center to really cover what needs and when to make it? While the same marginal and tragic situation exists in laundry, sterilization, surgery, cooking, where the auxiliary staff are literally declining. I think that the picture, not to say more, is well known for the Dragons and the inhabitants there in the wider region. So our questions, Minister, are two: First, what are you going to do to serve with all the necessary medical, nursing and technical staff this hospital covers a large area? Also, what are you going to do to stop this disgraceful work of contracts and contractors by turning their contracts into an indefinite time for these people to have a permanent and stable job? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u42	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Delis, this is not the first time you have asked about the lack of staff in the health structures of the Law of Drama and the answer cannot be different from the previous ones. It must be understood and understood that there are no magical solutions within eight months, because the situation described is the situation that we received a few months ago. The interim solution we give with the recruitment of auxiliary staff, medical and other staff does not cover you, not on the substance, but on the ideological basis. The cases of void coverage with proof of service again do not cover you. However, these are the solutions we have at the moment until the permanent recruitment of medical staff and the recruitments we are planning through the AACC are completed. If you have any other solution, we will be glad to hear and implement it. The General Hospital of Drama serves fifty-nine and not fifty-three doctors, as you refer to your question. They also serve fourteen subsidiary, eight doctors moving from another healthcare sector or body and a doctor with a service report increasing the total number of doctors serving in eighty two. At the same time, yes, two proclamations of permanent staff are under way and eight other staff posts were recently announced. I'm sure these notices don't meet the needs. Indeed, there are needs not only for medical staff but also for other staff - we have said so many times and we have stressed it - in critical areas such as the injured. Of course, we have made specific programming to cover these gaps. Finally, for contractors, I have said so before, and I say it once again, it is not dismissal. Their status is very specific, their contract ends and they leave. We have kept four thousand OAS contractors in the health system and we are looking at giving permanent solutions to the health system and not temporary jobs, and we are, of course, working with concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u44	Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u45	I'll make the picture more specific, Minister, for Drama Hospital. Surgeries in 2019 compared to 2018 were 30% less. This, of course, has a well-known basic cause, a lack of staff. Let me tell you something even worse. There are basic medical specialties missing from Drama Hospital. There is no dermatologist, there is no endocrinologist, and there is no gastroenter for an entire area, unless of course they go to private people and pay. But you know that not everyone can pay, they don't have any money. On the other hand, at least 20% of the staff of this hospital, like the others, are contracted. You said we shouldn't judge you so severely, because you're just eight months government. The argument is reasonable. However, it is not because your government also continues the same policy of sub-funding for health as all the previous governments of SYRIZA, either earlier than PASOK, or of the New Democracy. For example, it is well known - and I do not think that anyone disputes this and it is contained in much of ELSTAT's reports - that private health expenditure, that is, what the citizens of the country pay from their pockets to find their health is constantly increasing and at the same time government funding is constantly falling. So I do not know if you have the right to say, not to judge you so severely, let it be a little while. As long as it passes, the results of your own policy will be. On the other hand, as we are in a situation which can be dangerous in the next few years - and I am referring, of course, to the epidemic of the new coronary, which exists and has come to our country and the government has announced certain measures - tell me you, Mr Minister, how it can respond to such a hospital in Drama, like the other hospitals - most hospitals, not to say all the hospitals - in our country against such a possible spread or generalisation of such an epidemic, with those shortages of staff we have, with these shortages of material and all that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, we do not think it is - how do I put it? (ii) a satisfactory measure to the government's announcement of recruitment of staff of only three months' duration in twenty hospitals. The other hospitals, if they have cases like this, what are they gonna do? How are they going to deal with them? You understand that things are quite serious. You can understand that the money given to health at last needs to be increased! Let's cut them from elsewhere. Cut off any motives, no subsidies for the shipowners...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u46	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u47	Give the lenders less. Give NATO less. There's a way. In any case, read the announcement made yesterday by our party about the possible coronary epidemic. Read the nine seats and suggestions, between which it says that all these basic precautions - masks, disinfectants, etc. - the population of the country should be given free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, the situation is indeed serious and we are serious about it. I'll start with the coroner. There is a specific plan, which is progressing according to the severity and evolution of the disease. That doesn't mean everyone's going to go to hospitals. Hospitals are prepared to deal with any incidents. So don't try to exploit any hospital gaps and connect them to the coronary. I said in my prology that in eight months, there are no solutions with magic wand. I think that's clear and you don't question it. We know the situation. We have taken concrete steps. You referred to the reduced surgeries. Indeed, there is a problem because of the lack of anesthetics. This problem is not just at Drama Hospital. They're everywhere. And we are working towards solving these problems. But I do not think that an emergency has been approached immediately in a hospital in the country. Perhaps, in fact, some years are going backwards. As far as lack of staff is concerned, it is not just for anestheticists. I said it before. The shortage has to do with all the hospitals in the country. You mentioned private spending, which is increasing, because patients, citizens put their hand in the pocket deeper while they should have free public care. And here, you must finally get rid of the ideas you have. Because we have specific solutions. And we have said many times that, first, the government ensures the public character of the health system. And we want with the public-private partnerships to offer better services at no cost to the patient. Do you know what's going on today? Because there is no machine in a hospital, the citizen goes across from hospitals to diagnostic centers and puts his hand in his pocket, while we want to provide him with services free of charge in public nursing establishments. That's what we're gonna do. That is why the Greek people voted for us. And we will have concrete results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u50	Minister, Mrs. Jufi's question is over, and I'm going to ask you two things about the coronary. Let's go to the second and final question to the Minister, in the fourth Question No 540/24-2-2020, on a second question from the Member of Parliament, Ioannina, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Change the post of specialist doctors for the Ioannina Hospital "C. Chatzikosta’. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the question is very specific. In fact, the notice of nine hundred permanent ERC doctors for all hospitals and health centres in the country was approved. And that's important. These positions were, however, mostly declared by the previous government on 17 May 2019. Due to the existence of the national elections of 7 July, this procedure was not concluded. So, first of all, we have an important delay in completing this notice. Let it be like that. But what's the problem? In the initial notice, following a reasoned proposal from the Directorate-General of the ‘Hatzikosta General Hospital’ and the 6th Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health had declared three posts. These were nephrology, paediatric and obstetric - gynecology. After the national elections, for reasons which we do not know - and that is why the question is being asked - the Ministry of Health is approving the reintroduction of these three positions with its own priority. The statement by the Ministry of Health is changing and provides for three other positions: pneumonology, which was the sixth in the order of choice, of cardiology which was the tenth in the series, while the position of pediatrics remains. So we ask: Since the positions are to be prioritised after a wide-ranging dialogue, held at the administrative councils of hospitals, which are aware of the real needs of medical staff, but also of the 6th RS, what is the reason why the specific positions of specialists were decided to be called differentiated from the initial priority, as I said? Of course, what action do you intend to take to reopen the initial posts of specialist doctors? In particular, the position of nephrology is a very critical position. The Ioannina Hospitals are reference hospitals for the wider region of northwest Greece. People who have kidney failure problems do not have much potential. We also know that we are basically dealing with the specificity of nephrology. In other words, we don't have any experts who do this specialty so that they can help and help. So all the weight falls on qualified doctors. So how will the needs made very clear, both by the administration of the hospital and by the 6th RCD, which are real and well-qualified? I would like your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Jufie, let me fix you first. On 17 May 2019, the positions were not declared. There has been a distribution of positions. Of course, they've changed some positions. That's not what happened for a random reason. It was done on the basis of specific programming and procedure. I'll be clearer. The authorisation for a proclamation of permanent posts in medical staff arises from the requests of the health institutions themselves, whether they are hospitals or health centres, in accordance with their needs to cover empty organic locations. And the needs are many and they are not definitely covered by this notice. That's why we put priorities. In order to get these priorities in accordance with the intended procedure, it shall be the body that determines its own priorities. So it was at the "Hatzikosta" Hospital in this particular case. The priorities, too, of May 2019 are far from 2020. Evidently, this results from the hospital documents. Features I will tell you that from the "Hatzicosta" Hospital they left with retirement in 2019 four overall doctors, a pneumonology, a cardiology, an anesthetics and a doctor of urology. These four retirement departures have created gaps and therefore new needs and other priorities have been created. Regarding the proclamation currently evolving in the positions of the ‘Hatzikosta Hospital’, three positions of caretaker were announced in specialties first, the pediatrician, who actually remained, where one of the three organic positions that exist serves as a pediatrician and an adjunct, second of cardiology, because we had retirement in 2019 and a pneumonology post, where one and only an adjunct doctor serves. I repeat that our positions came from the hospital, as I repeat that these are certainly not the only needs. And because I have some time, Mr President, I will use it. I'd say it in my dentistry. I'll say why we changed the position of gynecology and nephrology. In the gynecological clinic there are six organic positions in the specialty of obstetrics - gynecology, of which only one is vacant and five are covered with doctors. In addition, in this specialty an adjunct doctor serves. So the clinic is run by six doctors and the level of completeness is 63%. In the nephrological clinic there are six organic sites in nephrology specificity, two of which are empty and the other four are covered with physicians. Therefore, the clinic is run by four doctors and shows completeness of 80%. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u54	Mrs. Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u55	Look, because I have served the system for many years in Yannina, I know better, you will allow me to tell you, Minister. Before I put the question to you, I had met with the hospital commander, and even at an open interactive debate, I was assured that the changes did not even come from the board of directors, but even as I was informed by the 6th RS. So it's a choice of the Ministry. I understand that the needs are too great and that there may be changes. You referred to cardiology. That's where we had a doctor's departure. Pneumonology, however, is only an external doctor at the Hatzikosta Hospital and is indeed covered by an auxiliary doctor, and in any case this prioritisation was not prioritisation of the Hospital and the 6th RC which are best acquainted with the needs. In time, because only the people responsible can know them, so I ask you what was the reason why this choice was made for these absolutely necessary and prestigious positions. I have not received an adequate answer, and I think we are being heard by the directors of the relevant clinics. Especially for nephrology, I pointed out to you the lack of qualified doctors who are a crucial issue, because otherwise this reference unit will not be able to function. But that, Minister, is not just about the Hatzicosta Hospital. You have also been asked other questions from other regions. There have also been changes in positions and changes in doctors' positions have also been made. While you have announced more places, in a number of hospitals the requested places have been reduced in Preveza Hospitals, Florina, Kastoria, Katerini, Trikalons, Carditsa, Volos. Even in Ikaria, the only slave position was abolished. So you have made a number of changes, which do not result from the needs of hospitals and I would like a clearer answer. Also for the "Hatzikosta" Hospital you have been asked for a post as an assistant doctor orthopaedic - you know that the positions of subsidiary doctors are covered by the costs of hospitals - which so far has not been announced. Finally, because you referred to the issue of coronary, which is important, you know that we, as SYRIZA, did not follow the previous micropolitics and demagogy. We are not talking, as you have done, unfortunately, about the deaths of flu, which are still there, and it is a serious issue of public health, in which we are pursuing a very low-minded policy, as is the measles epidemic. But, especially in the coronary, you know we said we would be with you in everything that the scientific bodies would suggest. And I would like to ask you this: have you received these statements from the scientific bodies about the connection between the coronary and the immigrants? Why do you choose this type of policy? You know very well that, at the moment, the epidemic is basically imported from the neighbouring country, Italy. Why do you put water on the mill of this type of comment, the connection of a very serious issue, which has been a major problem in its management in the islands, with the coronary epidemic? Do you have any such suggestions from the relevant scientific bodies that our problem is there to justify closed detention centres? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u56	I do not know, Mrs Jufi, what you are talking about, simply because I experienced avian influenza, I remember that 15 days later we learned about the real situation in Turkey, as you recall. There were 15 days before the WHO announced them because they were hidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, because you have referred personally, I will tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u58	I also want to say something else. I said I don't know what you're talking about, I haven't heard the statements. Let me say there's an epidemic in Iran right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u59	Of course, but until the virus comes from Iran, we have the neighboring Italy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u60	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u61	I said that's where all the recorded cases came from. And let me also tell you that I was on the staff who dealt with the SARS issue. So the questions I ask are after a long experiential experience. I think it is a mistake of this type and I would like a statement from the Minister responsible on this particular question for the scientific bodies that are currently giving the instructions to all of us. This time is crucial for what citizens and medical staff must hear. What does he say on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u62	Don't open any more topics. I just reminded you of something that's a fact. It doesn't even get into a scientific context. It's a fact that I said, we found out 15 days later and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, we have more evidence. You know there was a polio epidemic in Syria when the big thing started...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u64	It's polio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u65	And then it was resolved by vaccinating all the children who came from these areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u66	Deal. Polio is not a problem for Europe, because children are being vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u67	But it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u68	We are moving on to your answer, Mr. Secretary, please. I know that there has been a proper preparation. I'm just making one remark, unless you've already predicted it, and I haven't taken it. It's hard to keep older people on the phones you've made to communicate. I think it should be within the weekend, with Mr. Chardalia, who is in civil protection and Mr. Pierracakis, making a three-digit vocal gate. It's another thing to remember a number with nine numbers, and let's say "181", unless you have it in your mind. I think it will serve much more people who are not familiar with numbers and technologies. Here, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President, for the point. We are working in this direction. Mrs. Jufi, let's get the Hatzicosta Hospital, first. We were clear. The guidelines for the posts were based on the priorities that exist and on the needs. The question of supplementary doctors has nothing to do with the positions that have been announced for permanent staff. And, of course, where there are requests from subsidiary doctors, these are covered. Same thing, too, I would like to tell you about the residents, because you said about the kidney. The trainees again do not follow this process. They're going through a list. This has nothing to do with doctors' recruitment. That is what I would like to say and repeat that we are aware of the shortcomings and gaps and, of course, of the fact that there have been changes in all the hospitals in the country, because at the moment we would not only need nine hundred and fifty seats, we would need a thousand five hundred posts. We have put priorities in place, and so we will continue to do so in the next positions that we will be proclaiming. Now, as far as the coronary is concerned, it is a good thing that the opposition - and I think it is very serious when it comes to dealing with the coronary. It is important that this is because the leadership of this country should set an example to the world in order to have a cool and serious response to the issue. As you referred to the issue of coronary and migrants, you are obviously referring to the statements made by the Government representative, which raised the concerns about open or closed centres. Indeed, there is this concern and, of course, the one who proposes the solution is also the one bearing the burden of the decision with the solution it proposes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u70	We move on to the circle of questions which the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer, Mr Dimitrios Economou. The third question under number 544/25-2-2020 is the first-round question from the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa from the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The problems created by the ignitions of the "BIOKERAL" ceramics in Larissa". Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't catch Mr. Kontozamani. He left. But what I want to say applies to all of us. I address the Bureau and you, Mr President, in your dual capacity as a doctor. It is another ideological confrontation on the basis of programmes, ideological thoughts, if you like, principles, proposals for all sectors. Each party has its proposals, as does the Communist Party, in this respect, has integrated positions, tabled for many years, which are, of course, updated at regular intervals on the basis of the evolution of our society. But there is another ideological controversy on the basis, if you wish, of programmes and policies, and also of some of them, that they are possessed by ideological ideas, because this - I beg your pardon, Mr President - you know very well that it refers elsewhere to psychiatric specialists. So let it be a little - I am making a proposal to the Bureau - the governments or, anyway, those in public confrontation make a little more careful use of this term.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u72	Your question is starting now. As you have seen, I have not given you time because of the solidarity of Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, but I could not at that time intervene, so as not to interrupt both my colleague and the Minister. I'm not allowing myself to behave like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u74	Go ahead with your question. Your protest has been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u75	It's not a protest, Mr. President. Commencement, observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u76	Your political position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u77	As far as the question is concerned, for a long time since the company in question was closed, Mr Minister - you are obviously aware of it - the "BIOKERAL", which is located on the larisa-Sykouri road corridor, has been ignitioning in inert materials located in the company's yard, and we are talking about hundreds of tons of such materials, and, of course, the stirring atmosphere created by the burning, ignition, if you like, of these materials, not only in the region of industry, but also in other industries for the workers of the other industries, as well as in the neighbouring villages, as in the city of Larissa. On the basis of the information from the Thessaly Environment Agency, it appears that the waste in question is sludge, oil, but also medical waste, intended as alternative fuel for the plant. They are dangerous to public health and not only, as we say, to workers in the wider region of industry, but we also consider the inhabitants of the region and even the town of Larissa. The effects on the environment are also unknown after the materials have been deposited after they have been burned. There are responsibilities both in the region and in the governments of all these years, which have not tackled the problem and the questions to the Minister are what action they will take to force the company to remove dangerous public health materials and, of course, to bring the necessary measures to a safe and secure place to ensure public health in the region and to protect the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u78	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. The case is well known. It starts from at least 2010, when there was the known episode of fire and ignition of waste, which, as you say, is a danger to public health. Such waste would be used as an alternative fuel in the production process by the company ‘TERRA’, which had then submitted a request for GDP approval. In 2010, there were audits, significant environmental infringements and compliance measures were imposed and a fine of around EUR 400,000 in 2012. The operation didn't comply. Then, precisely because there was no compliance, GDP has not been renewed, the adoption of environmental conditions, which is no longer the case. The company appealed to the Council of State. However, the request for the cancellation of the company was cancelled. In May 2015, a new fire broke out in storage spaces again without the company taking the necessary steps to identify and secure storage, as requested. It is noted that the alternative fuel stored is about ten thousand tonnes. It's a huge amount. It's not something that can be handled easily. That, of course, doesn't mean we shouldn't. And that fire, in any case, was tackled at the end after forty - five refreshments - this shows the difficulty of the matter - which continued later on. After this, a new autopsy was carried out by the Special Inspectors' Office, in the context of a preliminary examination ordered by the Larissa Prosecutors' Office. This is a short history, which shows the length of the problem and the fact that the interdependent governments and regional authorities have not been able to deal effectively with the issue, to the extent that the issue is still in existence and that the assumptions are still made. One reason why these difficulties is linked to the rigidities of the legislative framework which allows for intervention in such situations. These rigidities are time-consuming, they cannot change from one day to the next, of course. However, in the environmental bill published yesterday and to be discussed in the next few days in the House there are now concrete measures which increase the possibility of direct intervention or rapid intervention - because 'direct' may be extremely ambitious - in such situations that so far they have not existed. I will respond to this case in my dentistry, as my time is running out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that, as you have presented it briefly, Minister, it is history. We've known it in Larissa for years. And when that pottery, this factory, operated by making use of such alternative forms of energy to produce its products, and then there were reactions from bodies through municipal councils, unanimous decisions calling for a ban on burning coke and, anyway, all these carcinogenic, dangerous materials which the industry used at the time. We are talking about a story that lasted several years, until we arrived at the beginning of the 2010-2011 period, where what you mentioned and the operation of the industry was suspended. But see - you have said it yourself, you know it - the materials remain. I am sorry, but immediate solutions are needed here. This is because there is a ignition, there is the intervention by the Fire Service, of course, by the competent bodies, but this continues to burn with any duplication, whether by the intervention of the Fire Service with its vehicles or by the coating of materials necessary to deal with such ignitions. However, these materials are smiling underneath - just to say it - and they are still burning, as well as evacuating fumes into the atmosphere. And now see now: For so many years, with repeated questions, there are no measurements, nor do we know what is happening for the health of the nearby region, but - if you'll excuse - and a city of two hundred thousand people now, Larissa, but also for the environment of the region. Intervention was also made in the region. See now: There are huge responsibilities, you said, over time. We agree on that, and we put it to the question. The responsibilities of governments, as well as of regional authorities, are time-consuming. And it cannot be said, for example, that the regional director, in question, - if you would like - of the regional councillors of the People's Coalition, on the basis of this fact - is imprinted on the question, you have seen it - answer with generalities, without actually taking any position and making no mention of it. This was the approach - in our opinion - to be an important issue, important to health, public health - if you like - of our region. And I'm waiting for your answer to your dentistry, because you already said in your protology that you'd refer to measures. We believe that action should be taken immediately so that these hazardous materials can be removed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u82	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I will bypass the continuation of the history because I did not get to the end, it is well known. I just started to have an overall picture, which you guys have anyway. I'm going to go to the end of what's going on today, about today. According to legislation, in the case where the responsible body - the company on this point - does not implement environmental damage prevention or recovery measures, the competent authority - on which the decentralised administration - can take measures itself and charge them to the retrospective body. Decentralised has stated that it is not able to take these measures. From an economic point of view, that is, it cannot cover it. An estimate - I am not sure that it is entirely accurate - that the services have given me is that it is the cost of more than EUR 12 million. And if you remember the huge quantities of these materials, I do not think it is unreasonable for them to be so much too much. What's happened from there? After decentralised said this, she asked on 4 March 2019 - about a year ago - for the Ministry of the Environment to take over the coordination of all the necessary actions. And part of this application was to pass on to the Green Fund a request for it to bear the costs, which are also the main difficulty in this regard. This request to the Green Fund has not been transmitted since then, from 4 March 2019, to date. I pledge that we will inform you in good time of exactly when this application will be transmitted. I do not commit that it will be accepted that the Green Fund can cover these costs, because it is not certain that its overall financial margin allows for this. What happens in this case will be announcing it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u84	We move to the next question, the first with number 2478/9-12-2019 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Demonstrations of arbitrary nature". Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning! Mr Secretary, we are here again in front of the same President, to discuss again the same deficit of the Ministry of the Environment. Mr President, these questions have been tabled in writing in December, they have not been answered. It is what I have told you several times, that the Ministry of the Environment does not answer the questions. The fact that the State Secretary, who is also unauthorized to be present on behalf of the Government, is inappropriate, but does not cover the obligations of the Government. The Government is obliged to answer in writing the questions we ask it because my second question, which will be followed by its debate, is also an application for documents. His personal presence cannot replace the documents we need on whether or not the institutional framework is being implemented. And if you are partly aware of the first question and have an object, the second is out of your jurisdiction completely. So, Mr President, I would like you to know this again: there is a very serious matter in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. If you want, it does not work properly, since - and - I will tell you a number - of the seventeen writings we have submitted since September, the nine were answered as timely, Mr Secretary, the four late and all three have not been answered. Not even for one you have captured the goal of answering in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. Not for one! Of the seventeen written versions, nine were answered late as time-limits. We have brought you here, because you have not responded to your obligation. Now let's go a little bit on demolition. With regard to demolition, there are four incidents, a tender opened in March 2019 by a decision by Mr Stathakis, EUR 500,000, for the execution of final decisions and demolition protocols, which were - Mr President, you are very interested in this - thirty-eight decisions in the Aegean and Beach zone and sixteen decisions were in forests, forest areas and a national park. This contest was cancelled because of the possibility of only one contestor being involved, if I am not mistaken - which is not illegal - in August. Since August, however, nothing has happened. The first question, then, arises: Good, has been cancelled because there was a contestant. Why didn't you call him back? Do you not have a political will to go ahead with the demolition competitions? Because I want us to know this in the House. The rest is as follows: New Democracy MEP Mr Katsafandos tabled an amendment on the suspension of demolition until 15 October. It was passed by the majority, badly, in my view. What happened next? The demolitions started, so after 15 October? The third is that in June 2019, there was a decision to launch a tender for the demolition of arbitrary forces in Macronissos, which concerns us all, not just the previous government. Why didn't he move on? There is a Minister's decision, a tendering issue as of June 11, 2019. And the fourth is that there are too many loose ends of demolition in decentralised areas, there has already been a commitment of 4 million euros to go to all the regions of the country, beyond Attica, which was the 'bone' contest, which also did not proceed. So, in order not to take more time, because you understand that it is necessary to restore the natural environment, respect for legality, protection of construction, and the rule of law to have these measures from the state and all that has been launched, there is one question: How will they proceed? Why don't they move on? And what about the follow-up of arbitrary complaints? Because you have frozen and the platform made with the chamber. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u86	So to rejoice now, first of all, Mr Secretary, I praise you for being here every Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u87	But he's unauthorized.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u88	I will not judge that either. It's by decision of his responsibilities. But what he says is a little on the services because, indeed, I see it as from December, which means that the month has passed and that the written question has been converted into a timely question. And you will have less burden, instead of coming here every Friday and my friend, Mr. Famelos, will not complain. To make us happy, I would like to tell you that for how much money this infamous Korean advisor to Mr Varoufakis was taking to some point and Mr. Tsakalotou, Kim - what was his name? - I tabled the same question 11 times and I never got the same answer. So, to cheer it up, I say it. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the point raised by Mr Famellos on the delays. It relates to this issue and to the next question - because Mr Famellos puts it back there again - but since he has mentioned these points now, I will respond from now, unless you object. The application for documents, 2675/105, has been signed by the Minister. The relevant information will soon be sent to you. In the present case, the delay is due to the fact that the data necessary to complete the answer come from the decentralised process and it was some time-consuming to gather from all the decentralised data. It has been signed, but you will have it in the near future. Also, from what I have been informed, the Minister has signed the answers and several other questions - including yours - and you will soon be notified of the answers and the accompanying documents. In the next few days, the signing of answers to other questions is also expected. Therefore, I understand the issue you have raised, but you will soon have the answers. The fact that there is a delay, but that is one topic - I do not want to say again in time - that is linked to the fact that the Ministry of the Environment is causing too many questions - you also know that - and that is one of the causes of the delays. Now, to go to this particular issue of arbitrariness, this has many aspects. With regard to the arbitrary competition in the Macronissos, which concerns me personally - and I do not mean in terms of competence - the delegation has been signed next month, in March, work will begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u90	The assignment of a contractor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u91	Yeah. Now, for the great competition that was cancelled in August, as you said, I have told the House that this competition will proceed. We're late, but it'll go very fast. You can ask us again if we don't. The Municipality of Megares has already sent a primary request to the environmental management. We're working on it and the competition will move on. Unfortunately, the procedures are too long - you know that because you have suffered this in other cases - for public awards, which is a factor which, in the case of arbitrary delays too, is greater, because in these cases, direct action is needed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm stopping here and I'm going to go on with my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u92	It is known in this House that from the top Western theories we attend our meeting of thirty-one students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 6th Drama High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Femelle, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u93	We welcome the students too. Mr President, Minister, I have heard your answer - on the last side, I will not go into the previous part - and I have seen that you have asked for decency or, at any rate, you have referred to a timely problem. But the New Democracy came here to change everything,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u94	I didn't say that for grace.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u95	...he didn't come here to say the services don't work and the public administration has problems, because you said so. You said it was public administration issues. I would also like to remind you of something, Mr. Undersecretary. The issue of the EUR 500,000 competition in Mandra and East Attica, linked to the two major disasters, does not need new opinions from the municipalities. It only needs a reopening. I would like to point out that you have said something which is not the case. You expect documents from the municipality? What for? We are talking here about ceremonial protocols that are on or on earth or in a national park that is not required to do anything. I therefore believe it is a mistake that since August it has not been reopened because it only wants one signature for the reopening. The money was there, the technical evidence was there. Just came a contestant, and I understand that you postponed it for that reason. The impression given by your answer, Mr. Secretary, is that the ministry does not want to go down to demolition. It doesn't prove that you have a political will. From August to today it is six months. For a signature that is just a political person, without any opinion of services, for a competition to be reopened, for arbitrarily in Mandra, in Matti, in the streams, in the cavalry and in the national park? I think that you should solve this immediately, tomorrow, Mr. Secretary, not to say that you have to go today, because tomorrow may not be a working day for the services. You know, what you said contrasts even with what, recently, the Technical Chamber said, which is certainly not the President of SYRIZA. He said, therefore, that the TEI supports the demolitions that are arbitrary, because if those things that the Ministry of the Environment at the time started by a decision by Mr Stathakis and my own, in two years, will have been solved with consensus, which has not taken place for decades. In other words, we started things with consensus, along with the Technical Chamber, with two platforms, in order to monitor the complaints of arbitrary and demolitions - and the extremists and arbitrary procedures - and all this does not go any further. Obviously, we also want you to give a practical end-season message. Let me tell you that yesterday's announcement from the Ministry of the Environment does not give this element. You are talking again about urban densities, and a week ago you denounced me here, about the fact that the settlements "done" in the Council of State, without you knowing. You were talking about a law of ours. It's not true what you said you know. You were uninformed, but in any case, you made a communication yesterday giving a 30-year period of settling arbitrary land on forest land. We'll wait for the consultation. We don't have to place ourselves now. But when you open such a window, at least practicate in the Macronese, decentralized regions, in Matti, in Mandra that you have the political will to implement demolitions, final protocols. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You know, indeed, that this must be combined with the implementation of the Building Observatorys Act. Here, Mr President, I would like to inform you - and through you, the whole House - that there was a programme of two hundred and fifty recruitments for the Building Observatorys at regional level, which were planned with committed funding that has been stopped by your Government. It's not that you're not just moving away from demolition. It is also the fact that you do not have the services to monitor what is going on with the arbitrary and the Building Observatorys and the arbitrary process, so that there is no budget deficit. The resources are therefore also secured. Therefore, I think we should draw your attention to the fact that as far as the protection of the environment from arbitrary construction is concerned, you are not sufficient as government, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u96	The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Economou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Famele, despite the way in which you closed your speech, I would like to tell you that I consider the question to be a constructive one. The fact that there are responsibilities, they exist. I did not say 'temporary' in the sense of an alibi. I said this as a real fact, which reflects the great difficulty of dealing with this problem. When we have in Greece today one and a half million arbitrarily, it is obvious to everyone that it is very difficult to implement solutions that would be right. But it would be right when we had thirty thousand arbitrary and not a half and a million. Nevertheless, I consider your remark to be constructive and agree that we should speed up what we are doing in this area. I told you about the Macronese. With regard to the competition of five hundred thousand, what I just said is that the Municipality of Megarion in November 1919 made a primary request for the same subject. That's what I told you. I didn't say we couldn't do it. In any case, I understand what you have said and I hope that we will have a concrete result soon. For the arbitrary tracking platform it will be put into action by the end of the six-month period - we have said this - together with this year's online platform. If I have a little time, I would like to refer to the issue of the Observatory, because it is indeed huge. You know that by law on 3-11-2017, the Observatorys were provided for and it was foreseen that there should also be a presidential decree, specifying the details and modalities of the Observations and any other relevant issue. That's not what happened. The deadline was 3-5-2018 for this presidential decree based on the law. This has not been done either by you or us. It was not for a number of reasons which were linked, I suppose, by you and us, to objective difficulties linked to the institution of the Observatory. I'll say it very briefly. The first is the lack of staff. For example, I say to you that it is estimated that ten employees are required for each regional observatory and for each local observatory - in regional units - seven employees are required. So the number of employees required by itself is very large. This does not mean that we are not moving in the direction of staffing, but on purpose it is a very large number. That is one reason why the observers have not yet started. The second is the lack of resources. The resources currently available are not sufficient. It is foreseen by the legislation that 25% of the fines will go to the observatory. We believe that this amount is not sufficient and we are moving towards some solutions. What I can tell you in conclusion is that in the next draft law to be brought by the Ministry next month - what is currently under way is on environmental issues, the next one is on town planning - spatial planning and the issues of arbitrary issues - there will be concrete answers on all these issues and on how to deal with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u98	Before we go to the next question, which is the last of today's sitting, I would like to make two announcements. The Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Labour and Social Affairs and Justice tabled a draft law on 28-2-2020: "Structuring the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco on maritime transport". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. It is also known in this House that from the top Western theories we attend our meeting of twenty-four students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 2nd Arsaceo Municipal School of Psychology. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the debate on the second, with number 541/24-2-2020 in the first cycle, the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas, to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: 'Let us pay five year's fire extinguishers for night work, holidays and excellence'. The respondent will also respond consistently every Friday, State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Mr. Economou is always consistent. But it would be nice to see the Minister here at some point, when we exercise parliamentary control of a timely question. The issue I am going to raise is very important, because it is also confusing that in public administration we have many speeds. I am referring specifically to the five-year obligation institution established by Law 3938/2011 and in this way an injustice has come, since the services have been served by experienced firefighters who have just served as seasonals, covering almost 85% of people who have served a decade and over and currently exceed 50% of permanent staff. They have been simulated in hours and in the rest, but not in terms of rights. I am referring specifically to the time of compensation for the five-day and night hours of work, where there is a great deal of delay. Already we now have the payroll for February. One would say that it is not worth so much to deal with such a matter. However, the problem is twofold: first of all, we are dealing with people who systematically take over their overtime and, on the pretext of lower wages than with their other colleagues. I would like the Minister to tell us when we are going to get the prizes now, but, above all, to set us a timetable that is binding on how this injustice is to be lifted, to wait months to get their jobs paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u100	Here you go, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary, the issue you raise in your current question is well known and employs the Ministry of Civil Protection, and in particular the Headquarters of the Firehouse every year, because the payment of the overtime night and on Sunday and exceptional days of employment of firefighters is not made through their payroll but through financial orders. This is because five-year-old firefighters are subject to the civil servants of the Fire Corps, in accordance with Article 20 of Law No.4354/2015, and their payroll is therefore not governed by the status of special wages such as permanent staff. With regard to the payment of their accruals for the months November and December 2019, the three-month delay you mentioned is due to what I have just described to you in conjunction with the change in the financial year. All anticipated supporting documents for the payment of the overtime night and during Sunday and exceptional days of employment for the month of November of 2019 have already been sent to the Directorate-General for Clearing and Payment of the Directorate-General for Economic Services on 12 February 2020. The same applies to corresponding supporting documents of December 2019 sent for entrustment on 25 February 2020. In fact, according to the relevant agency of the Cleanup and Payment Control Directorate, the expenditure related to compensation for the five-year and five-year night hours of firefighting firefighters for the months November and December 2019 has been consolidated as a whole and the money will be paid to the debtors through the Single Payments Authority on 15 March 2020. With regard to your question about harmonising the five-hour overtime compensation for five-year-old fire extinguishers with the permanent ones, I would like to inform you that by Ministerial decision the hours of overtime, both permanent staff and five-year-old fire extinguishers, are the same. As far as compensation time is concerned, there is no possibility of harmonising between permanent staff and fire extinguishers five years of obligation, for the reason that I explained to you at the beginning of my position, that the latter are not covered by the special salary and the payment of their overtime is made with a cash warrant. The Headquarters of the Fire Corps, in a document in 2018, asked the Ministry of Finance to change the legislative framework so that the overtime night and on Sunday and exceptional days of employment of fire extinguishers could be paid for five years, but the answer of the Ministry of Finance was negative. In addition, I would like to state that the compensation for fire extinguishers is higher than that for permanent staff, as they are compensated for by the civil servants' provisions and not for the uniform, and there is a differentiation there. It is, however, a question which we have in mind and which we are trying to find a way to see how it can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u102	Good, I think you were clear. Mr. Kamin, here's the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, what we have heard from the Minister is that we have a government that responds with many voices. The government, according to the Constitution, has a united responsibility, and the responsibility lies with the ministers. We are not allowed to hear here that the Ministry of Citizen Protection proposes something and the Ministry of Finance refuses it, let alone when we were here days ago, and we actually set up a second ministry that we did not name. We have a Ministry of Civil Protection without even mentioning it, and a separate Directorate-General for Finance was created. That's what we know how to do. We know how to create new bureaucracy, but the very simple thing, to find a way as a government as a whole to compensate low-wage people in time, we do not see that. So we'll come back. On the occasion, however, Minister, since you are here, we must also discuss the facts that we have seen happening in Chios the other day. What did we see out there? We saw MAT policemen behave like common hooligans. In a democracy the state has a monopoly on violence. But it must be legal violence. Some citizens are not allowed to protest, even to go beyond the limits, even to devastate, and to see the MATs politically coming out, to wear helmets, to take the gloops, to throw chemicals, to hunt people and destroy people's property, as common vandals to destroy cars. It was reported that an investigation was ordered. All right, but political responsibility needs to be assumed at some point. There is now a very serious issue here. The inhabitants of a city have been suffering an unacceptable violence for days, and so many years have suffered an unbelievable suffering. What the Hirots want is not just to punish those responsible. What they want is an apology. They demand an apology at last from the Ministry. And from now on, there must be a commitment from the Ministry - we will come back to this - so that they do not take out the weapon with the slightest members of the special guards as a common hut against citizens and finally undergo the education that is appropriate to a rule of law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u104	Before I give you the floor, Minister, to say the following. First, Mr. Kamines is from Chios, so just justify his emotional charge. Secondly, the Bureau has no right in time to tell any Member what to say or not to say. However, since it was not his last position within the question, you have absolutely no obligation to answer it if you do not want it. No, because you don't know what you're going to say, because I think there's been a announcement. I just want to remind you that yesterday, for three hours, the Prime Minister's meeting with all the mayors in the region - the principal of the district - was not able to arrive as the routes were cancelled - and from what I heard from the statements from the others were in an excellent climate. Just so this can be written in the Minutes. In all the rest, if you want, answer. If you don't want to, you don't have to. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, it has come to the House today to discuss the topical and urgent question with full respect for parliamentary procedures and to help safeguard the purpose and content of this sitting. It is clear that topicality is particularly full of issues relating to the Ministry of Civil Protection. They've been given answers. It's a critical day today. There are issues and developments with Turkey as well and we see what is happening with migration flows. I would ask that we respect this whole process. In addition, you know that in every timely question I come and answer and we will have time to discuss these issues in the future. Regarding this issue of today's topical question, I would like to say in general that the intention of the Ministry's political leadership is with the targeted improvements and the reform areas that are being attempted by Law 4662/2020 to make the best possible use of the new structures and personnel of the Firehouse in order to achieve its most efficient and productive administrative and operational function. This will normalize any malfunctions that existed so far. After all, Mr Kamines said it was a situation since 2011. I told you that the five-year obligation of firefighters falls within the civil staff and the officials of the Firehouse are subject to the special salary. It is an issue that needs a more general study and the normalisation of this, but it cannot be done from one day to the next on a subject that runs back by many governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u106	We are closing today with the second question under number 2676/105/17-12-2019 and requesting the submission of documents of the reporting cycle by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Application of the pricing and pricing rules for water services'. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, we are now coming back. We had started the debate with the Minister earlier. I would point out that the Minister has already said in his application that he has been signed, and these days we will receive the documents. Therefore, for the documents we may come back with new parliamentary scrutiny. So I will not go into the documents. But I shall refer to the application of Article 9 of Directive 2060, which has come to Greece by a decision of the National Water Commission, which has come out in May 2017. The reason why we have brought this issue to parliamentary scrutiny is because this decision, Mr Secretary-General, is a very big reform in water management. It is a European obligation, obviously. Let me note that it was also heresy. In other words, the European institutions had almost cut off funding in Greece if this commitment were not implemented. It wasn't until 2017. Our government has solved this as well. But what is the essential thing? What reform is that we do not want to lose, and that is why we are bringing it to the level of the debate? With this decision, therefore, this FEK has entered transparent rules and equals for all water service providers, for large companies (EEAFs, EAFs), for all LEUs and for all TEBs and GEBs, who have said very simply the following. Firstly, there must be savings for water losses that are not invoiced and generally for water losses. Secondly, there must be a restriction on increases, a cut for the greedy increases. Thirdly, there must be an ecological invoice for those who consume those that correspond to minimum consumption. Fourthly, there must be a social invoice for those in sensitive social groups and, at the same time, there must be clarity. That is, practically, every municipality, just to say, has to have in a database and see all of us - we, citizens, consumers - all the elements: how much it draws, how much it provides, how much it has and how it invoices. And not only the municipality, but also the EYCF and the EYCF, obviously, and the bodies of enhancement and irrigation. Because there was a serious problem of loss, overvaluation of other cost factors that entered and in municipal tariffs, where we are talking about it, and finally, the result was to have expensive water and not to save water. So on this point, because we see that the database you should have pressed, I would like to say that, Mr Secretary, to be activated, to force the municipalities to send evidence, to activated invoices, we have done so. It was also a European obligation. I see he's delaying his progress. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We ask what measures you will take to implement this decision, to send us what documents are already in place - that you will probably do so and we will see where it is - and, of course, to oblige - the functioning of the state - operators to enter this monitoring mechanism so that we have evidence. Because my personal experience, Mr. Secretary, says that from my region at least there are municipalities that go further than expected increases due to the increase in tariffs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Femmelle, I've put you instead of two, three minutes. Complete your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u109	Forgive me. So we have seen invoicing above the limit. So, if there was this database, you could control the state as well as all of us consumers what is going on. But I will come back, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u110	Because I knew that two minutes wouldn't work, I put three minutes straight. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Look, I do not want it to be written tomorrow that I was apologetic, but that is my question as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u112	Apparently it is. They're all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u113	Yeah, don't say I'm apologetic. I think it is a good thing that it is constructive. It was indeed the beginning of a reform, the previous decision. Indeed, the issue of water and savings is huge. I will not go into things that are familiar with you and all the interested parties. I will try to answer your specific questions briefly. Well, as far as the 2017 decision is concerned, I would remind you that the application of the costing rules has been linked to the completion of the first revision of the waste water basin management plans. This is progressing, and the implementation of the rules in line with what is stated in the management plans will be carried out in a coordinated manner. What has the Ministry done beyond this so far? In view of the difficulties of the bodies involved in this process, to provide information, to be able to understand all the procedures, the Ministry has already held seminars, information meetings and has sent about four thousand e-mails to stakeholders in the last eight months. The institutions are the decentralised JHA and the OTAs. Indeed, it has worked. You mention in your question that only 28% of users had submitted data to the system. Today the participation of providers in the registration of new users has reached 70% or more. So there's a progress there. It is linked to information, but there are indeed objective difficulties. I should like to reply to you about what decentralised operators have done, that is, if some operators have made cost decisions. Seems to the evidence who they are. They're quite decentralized that they've done. For example, Attica, Epirus, western Macedonia - for Epirus and for the aqueous apartment of Western Macedonia - and for the decentralised Crete. For example, I mention this. There are other areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u114	What is included in the documents you're about to deposit doesn't have to say, so we can get time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u115	I'm not saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u116	Say it's included in the documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I will then continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u118	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I shall continue the very dialogue I have with the Secretary-General. It is obvious that too many questions are made to contribute to certain issues or to highlight shortcomings. We have to tell you honestly, we have done so, because we think you have a shortage on this issue. We say it because: Firstly, you have made an unjustified decision to abolish the special water secretariat. If there was the executive body for water management, you could do better in doing the work that you are now delaying and not answering the questions. Secondly, at a time when, because of the climate, the climate crisis, we are going for periods of water shortages and drought, and you need additional tools, such as a strategic plan for the drought in Greece, you have not yet been able to respond to what we had reformed. Instead of moving forward to your own reforms, you cannot yet respond to what Europe wants. Why am I saying that? Because, indeed, this ministerial decision, the decision of the National Water Commission came out in May 2017, as I personally was responsible for and contributed to the existence of water basin management plans at the end of December 2017 throughout Greece. So the data you said you needed on the basis of the management plans you have. So, decentralized people should have moved on already. I, in fact, had moved into a circular so that it could be done quickly and have all the data. Indeed, there is at the moment an increase in the bodies that have entered the system. You're talking about 70%. Mr President, I will read to you the report by the European Union institutions, February 2020, which says that the data remains untapped, because many operators have not even put energy costs. I mean, Mr. Undersecretary, take note of this. They may have put in many elements, at least more, and there may be progress, but that is not what you need. You cannot calculate the cost factors. They have not, in other words, done what we all need, the transparent registration of all cost parameters and all losses, in order to reduce both costs and losses. I would therefore like to point out to you, obviously, that we are here to improve political function, because the government is not as environmentally-friendly as it seems or at least as it states. Because it doesn't seem, believe it, but as far as it says. Because he does not even know the reforms that have already been implemented by the European Union and within the European family and he does not know that the elements that have been put in place by the institutions are not what is needed to have proper policies. We have the opportunity to monitor both the institutions' reports and the awareness and effectiveness of operators and tell you that you are late. It is your decision that you have abolished the special water secretariat. It was a tragic mistake, especially in Greece, a country that has a very large marine environment, as well as a very critical water and water network. But these are your choices. You'll be judged and judged all the time. What I want to say to you at the moment, however, is that we need to move on very quickly with the quality control of data, because we also know from the institution report that it is not enough, so that the monitoring mechanism is fully operational, that data can be introduced and that you control cost increases. We will probably also move on to parliamentary scrutiny to point out if you fail to do so, which bodies do not implement this decision, because the state must also ensure satisfactory services and to restrict that there will be no such increase in charges. So I ask you to give the services and have the political will to move on to what at least the previous reforms of the previous governments require. We'll wait for yours. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u120	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Previous reforms started, not completed. We are making good use of it, but this does not mean that reform is just the adoption of a decision. That is the beginning of the reform. It has become good things, but the implementation of the reform is much more difficult and requires time. This is also apparent from the fact that in the 2017 decision of the National Commission for Waters on the application of the costing rules a medium-term horizon of three to five years and a longer-term term of over five years is provided for and will then be assessed for the improvement of water management, etc. We are in 2020, at the beginning, at the short-term limit. Therefore, this shows that it is a process that cannot be done within one or two days or in a few months. As far as the abolition of the special water secretariat is concerned, I can assure you that this abolition will not cause a problem. The address is working satisfactorily. The delays, to the extent they are delayed, are linked to the objective difficulties of the project. On the question that you raised in the regional system of the mechanism, these are used in the annual reports of the Decentralised and Water Management Directorate of the Ministry. These reports have not yet been completed. We expect it to be completed. They are assigned and we expect them to be completed in September this year. When they are completed, we will have the full picture of the facts, so we will be able to assess what is going on, where and what. As to what you said about the municipalities, which have the image of your constituency, if I understood correctly, that some municipalities...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u122	They've increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u123	It would be very good if you could give us some specific information. I don't really have anything else to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the topical and urgent debate. I wish you a good three-day and a good Sarakostis! Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-28-S1-commons.u125	With the agreement of the House at 11.22 p.m., the sitting will be closed for Tuesday 3 March 2020 at 14.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed.
