ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval, the Minutes of Wednesday 4 March 2020, concerning the vote in the whole draft law, were confirmed by the Bureau: ‘Agricultural Cooperatives and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 6 March 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 555/28-2-2020 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on "Supporting and Degrading of the National Center for Haemodysia (EKE)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 565/3-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Conflicts of the Ministry of Finance". 3. The Question No 559/3-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The serious problems due to the subsidization of the Heraklion Land Office". 4. The question by No 551/26-2-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Diffusion and Sale of Public Gas Company S.A. (PES)’. 5. The Question No 549/25-2-2020 by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: 'New case of police immunity using a weapon'. B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 566/3-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled "To end the period of inertia for the construction of the Grand Justice". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilias Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Evaluation of water produced at the Psytalia Solutions Processing Centre (KELP) for green watering needs in West Athens". 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Improve the connection between Ilio and Metro". 4. The Question No 564/3-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creating a model of the Civil Press Health Centre in Ilioon". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a written document, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the timely questions to be debated within the parliamentary control of Thursday 5 March 2020. The number 548/25-2-2020 and 567/3-2020 topical questions and the Question No 3669-30-1-2020 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon and Mr Adonni Georgiadis. The number 547/25-2-2020 and 550/25-2-2020 of the current questions addressed to the same Minister will not be answered because of lack of competence. Question No 561/3-20 will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Question No 556/28-2-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara. Question No 546/25-2-2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Development and Investment, Mr Nikolaos Papathanassis. Question No 553/28-2-20 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna Michailidou. The number 542/25-2-2020, 543/25-2-2020 and 560/3-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Theodoros Livanios. It will therefore be discussed the first under number 556/28-2-2020 in the second question of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, to the Minister of Justice, on “Independent Offices for the Protection of Adult Victims – “Home of the Child”. The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. Mr Vernardakis, before I give you the floor, I would like to ask both you and Minister Chiara to keep the time, because there are too many questions to be answered. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister, and thank you for your presence. I think we have to deal with a matter that is very serious together. You are aware of the setting-up of the independent agencies for the protection of minors, as you know, and that during the period 2016-2019 there has been an attempt by the country to respond in principle to a big issue, on the issue of child sex abuse, in line with international standards. You know that this whole system of awarding criminal justice created great distortions and a cafficient environment in the context of interrogation, pre-interview, expert consultation, hearing, forensic review to minors, and that is why, firstly, the structure of the 'Independent Offices for the Protection of minors' was established in cooperation with the Secretariat for General Criminal Policy. Also, he wrote - which is very important - the first structured legal interview protocol for minors, according to international standards, were trained for this work by specialist psychologists at the best recognized centre in the United States and, of course, these structures were entrusted with the mobility programme, which was launched in 2017. Today we are at a point where we really need to make a great relaunch. It has been lost for about an eight months, without these structures working. The staff mobility programme has also expired, without the administration requesting an extension of their work, while the interview protocol, which is internationally recognised, is still not being implemented, thus creating many problems with incalculable consequences for minors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In my opinion, after a break that took place in the implementation of this policy, and the Ministry of Justice today must make a serious relaunch on this issue. That is why I call on you to respond to this policy of the Ministry of Justice, how it intends to make use of these structures, how it intends to resolve the issues of housing, which have largely been completed and have remained some details, especially in terms of the application of the Protocol, but also of the mobility of those structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u3	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleagues, first of all I can assure you that today's debate can only be seen as a good one. And how could it be done differently, when we talk about child abuse, an issue that hurts us as human beings as well as society. Our strategy, I imagine, will agree, and I will appreciate the positive steps taken in the previous year - because this is a reality which one must not question - must be a circle, a holistic response to the phenomenon of child abuse, starting with prevention - so that abuse does not exist - and, when it is considered necessary - but also with the care and treatment of children who have suffered violence. And of course the most sensitive stage in this process is when we are now called through justice to investigate such an incident. It goes without saying that minors should be recognised and treated with respect on the basis of a personalised and, of course, professional approach. There was all this legislative initiative that you mentioned, No 4478/2017. At the same time, there were the operating issues and the structured protocol you mentioned, which I believe were the important steps that had taken before we passed, and we must say, of course, that we finally ended up having the self-protecting offices of minor victims, the so-called "houses of the child", which are based in Athens, Thessaloniki, Piraeus, Patras and Heraklion Crete, as regional agencies of the Ministry of Justice. The aim of the "houses of the child" is to ensure that minors victims of criminal offence receive adequate information, support and protection in order to participate in the criminal proceedings in such a way as to avoid the risk of a secondary and repetitive victimisation, intimidation or retaliation. The initial planning - and here I come to the small problems, which had to be solved and solved - step by step, and I will explain to you during the secondary course how this target might be attempted - provided for the administrative placement of these services to the Disciplinary and Social Assistance Service (HSE). The planned administrative connection between the independent offices for the protection of minors and the relevant OHIMs, which have a different administrative structure, has been amended by means of a relevant provision in Law 4640/2019. This ensures the autonomous functioning of the newly established structures, which are the necessary treaty for their proper and effective functioning, and thus provides that their supervision, diligence and organisation belongs to the Directorate-General for Administration, Justice, International Legal Relations and Human Rights. However, it must be done in order to be able administratively to operate this set of structures and to allow the Ministry of Justice to have the real role to play in their operation, and this will be done by means of a relevant provision of law. There's already a bill in consultation with the Justice Department since last night. I hope that within the month this part will have been covered by legislation, so that at least - I repeat - we can have the opportunity to exercise our role as Ministry of Justice in the functioning of these structures. I would like to say to you, Madam President, that this information has been completed in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u6	I will begin by recognizing that this is a very serious issue, which should continue on the part of the Ministry of Justice. Two remarks only: I consider that, without the Ministry of Justice being responsible for this, the transfer of the powers of the entire anti-criminal policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection by the Law of the Staff State was an obstacle and a derogation from what was normal. We have noted that these policies cannot change. Through this transfer to the Ministry of Civil Protection, these structures were also transferred. A valuable time has been lost. Now they're coming back to the Justice Department, and that's right. In this sense, I think you should also speed up. Something I would like to draw your attention to is first of all the question of mobility. Because at the moment we have problems. He's trained this staff. The possibility of renewal and work will be lost when you are ready now with the legislative initiative you have said. So you just need to see this particular issue, and of course I would ask you - you understand that, and you do not need more than we do - to oversee as the Ministry of Justice the application of the judicial interview protocol in some way. That is something we need to have in mind so that we can have a productive use of these structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u8	Mr Colleague, I firmly believe that not only on justice matters, but also on matters which require a particular social sensitivity, the political system must be consulted. And I think this is an assumption which will at least give Greek society the feeling that, in any case, there are parties and politicians who are trying in the best way to deal with problems, which are not questionable and obviously have neither direction nor color. However, I would like to return to the specific issue you raised, concerning mobility, and to become specific. I think it is well known to all of us that secondments and transfers are now subject to the principles of a single system for the mobility of civil servants, in accordance with the legislation in force. There is a staffing phase at this stage - you know - of these offices. In addition, staffing basically comes from the design of the previous period. In Athens, attributes are served by an IT psychologist, three TEs for minors, two PE for psychologists, a TE for minors, in Patras for a psychologist, a TE for juvenile caretaker, in Heraklion serves a PE for psychologist. We expect the services' gaps to be further staffed through the one-round mobility cycle for civil servants to be completed. The problems are known, you know them, and you have had a role in the previous period and you know how this process works, what the forecasts are, and what the results usually are. There are, of course, issues with the livestock sector. There is the direct involvement of the CFP. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I can assure you that we have already given the approval of certain amounts in order to complete the procedures in the four of the five specific 'the houses of the child', perhaps in a short time horizon. Some will be completed this month, some will be completed by summer. I can inform you very specifically, in private, of how all these procedures will be initiated. But the question is - and we need to know - that at the moment the CFP is making a very serious effort - because it does not belong to the Ministry of Justice - of reorganisation. It was a service that had been subordinated in the previous period, a very great effort is being made, especially at this time, to regain its role and functionality, as well as its effectiveness. There are issues relating to each individual structure, the predictions have been made, from somewhere there is the possibility of renting them by agencies of the Ministry of Employment, which are next to me by this Minister of Employment and may well be aware of them. Somewhere else we had a failure in Patras, where the leasers retreated, and there you know that there was an issue that went far behind a year. However, the effort - and I would like to assure you - is very systematic on the part of the Ministry of Justice. I too, if I have to testify to a personal witness through my election, in the time I am in this particular role, I will tell you that with great sensitivity we have seen all these issues, and I personally have attended and discussed with a number of certain scientists from the United States, to whom you have referred, and some of our scientists have been with them and have trained with them. I believe that a serious and democratic state, in the 20th century, has little obligation, not only to safeguard the rights of the child but, at least, to agree on policies that promote both real security and real interest, but also the real protection of young children, against such phenomena. I would like to believe that the Greek Parliament as a whole and the political parties will at least agree on practices and policies, which all show that enable us to keep up with a European practice, but at the same time to show that we are taking steps as a society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u9	We will now discuss the fifth under number 561/3-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Retired pension entitlement for persons with a working time abroad’. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the high delay in the start of pensions, the granting of pensions to Greece led to the temporary pension scheme, a regime which is well known, in which people who apply for retirement because of their old age can apply for a temporary pension and receive it three months after this application, at 80% of the original pension, of the normal pension. But there are many of our fellow citizens who have migrated abroad, to Europe and Switzerland, who are in this particular case, who therefore have time for pensions and have paid insurance abroad and in Greece. They are people who were victims of the past and of the recent crisis, people who have been found like economic refugees in the European Union. These people today are not entitled to temporary retirement at the same time as, for three and a half years, there was no pension issued since May 2016 to people who have years of insurance abroad. I would like a commitment from you because you really understand the difficulty of living for these people. They are people who were the victims of earlier or the recent crisis. Your commitment to start granting temporary pensions to these beneficiaries as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, the Ministry of Labour has the task of ensuring the protection of workers' working and insurance rights, the awarding of pensions and problems which sometimes exist as pathogens in the Ministry of Labour's system. In this context, a new insurance reform, No.4670/2020, was passed last week, promoting the creation of a modern, sustainable and rewarding public social security system, which will provide stability and respect for the insured, the retired, directly accessible, friendly and operational. With the new Law No4670/2020 a large part of the economy is being enclosed by the narcotic regions of the impasse arrangements of the old system and at the same time a new legal, simple, rewarding system that strengthens employment and productivity is being created, it respects the decisions of justice and, above all, creates an insurance consciousness. In any case, the question you raise concerns an issue which requires the combination of national legislation and Community legislation, so that the final decision on retirement can be taken, so that there can be also temporary retirement. In short, then, I will describe the procedure which is of interest to be heard. In fact, persons entitled to old age pension are entitled, and this is done overwhelmingly in all pensioners, to apply for a temporary pension until they receive a definitive pension of 80% of the pension. This is done for all pension beneficiaries. However, for those who have work time abroad - and here, as you are quite right to say, there is a question - provided for in Article 29(7)c of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 of the European Council for the coordination of social security systems and the European Council Decision No 987/2009 laying down the procedure for implementing the regulation and the bilateral social security conventions, except in cases where - and this is what is the basis of an autonomous pension right only with the time of insurance to a Greek insurer. There is a temporary pension even in these international pensions. This is also the key phrase that creates the problem. I shall conclude in my dentistry because I have already covered the time of protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I would very much appreciate if you would complete the answer to the prototype so that I too can use my dentext in your reply. In any case, what you said about insurance, we have discussed it in plenary. You are, in fact, increasing the insurance contributions for 90% of the employees and increasing the retirement time. I, for example, will go out under your law to the sixty - nine and other people may go out to all seventy - one and seventy - two. Now, however, we are actually going to talk where we can agree. The problem is, at the moment, that no pension for three and a half years has come out for people who have exactly the insurance period and do not substantiate the right to pension only from their insurance in Greece, but have the time to cover abroad and the right to aggregate it. European legislation says that in this case each State shall assign the part of the pension to the beneficiary. But for three and a half years there has been no such pension even though there have been applications. On the one hand pensions have not been paid and on the other hand they do not have the right to temporary retirement. Obviously these people are dealing with survival issues and you must look at it, I think, in a consensual mood - I do not think it disagrees with some of Parliament's wings - and solve this issue, firstly, with an amendment of your own insurance policy, so that these people are entitled to a temporary pension and, secondly, that you finally unblock these pensions from the people who have and have a time of insurance abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u15	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Mr Law 4670/2020, which was voted on in the House about a week ago, does not affect any age limit. On the basis of what you said as a matter of observation that the retirement time will personally increase is not about you in the sense that they are not increasing and that age limits are not affected on the basis of the law adopted. Secondly, the question of the specifics you mention about the temporary retirement of international pensions, as they are called, has a particular feature. Pension rights must be established in our country, so on this basis, as I said before, there is a temporary pension. When the right is established in Greece there is a temporary pension. There is the question, however, that these international pensions cannot be assessed on the basis of the two regulations I mentioned before and cannot be assessed. Because it is not possible for the services unless the amount of pension that has been paid abroad is assessed, since it is not based on an internal pension that Greece is given a temporary pension. These are issues concerning the two regulations I mentioned and the existing legislation of L.4387/2016. For these reasons, we have already speeded up the procedures for implementing the necessary computer applications for the award of pensions. There will be the answer, the awarding of pensions and their acceleration, in application of European regulations and bilateral agreements and in addition to the provisional decisions adopted in the case of autonomous rights. In other words, all the effort now being made by the Ministry of Labour is in the direction of speeding up the time when pensions are awarded. As of June 2019, definitive old age decisions were adopted in those cases and disability decisions were also adopted at the end of February 2020 and survivors’ pensions are under control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. We move forward with the first under number 553/28-2-2020 in the first cycle of the Athens Department of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The implementation of Law 4538/2018 is delayed for the assumption and adoption." The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna Michailidou. The honourable Member has the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u18	Madam Secretary, today's question concerns the implementation of the law on acceptance and adoption adopted by SYRIZA in May 2018 and applied eleven months later with a digital original for the whole of Europe system, which ensured, firstly, fair procedures, secondly, equality to candidate parents and, thirdly, speed of procedure. In other words, instead of four to six years of this process until then, this procedure could be ensured in eight to twelve months. In two and a half months, i.e. until the end of June, because after July you received a system of three hundred parents' requests and ninety electronic files of children for treatment. The implementation of the law is known to be supervised by the ESANY, the National Admission Council for Adoption, which operated from July 2018 until 2019 incompletely. He made adjustments and planned necessary programming, as foreseen by the law. I'll testify to you the law. The functioning of the RESANY is key to the proper functioning of the law because since July 2019 you have undertaken and until now you have never called on the RESANY, not once as a result of inequality between the prospective parents, i.e. parents of two speeds are created because firstly, you neglected to train the social workers of the PSE who would do social research where there were no other social workers and secondly, you neglected to train the parents who had ready social research and thus the law is undermined in practice. On the other hand, assumptions and adoptions are out of law, as we are aware, that is while there are for the first time in the country a thousand sixty children with electronic files waiting for a family and a thousand fifty parents with integrated electronic applications, the law has left to its fate without supervision by the Ministry and procedures are not complete. I would ask you today - and I come to the question -, Minister, why did you never meet the RESANY? But I do. Because we were informed that on 27 February you asked for the resignations of the members of the EVANY and appointed your chosen members on 3 March, that is, the day before yesterday. So I know why you didn't work it out, and you weren't made by the distinguished scientists we had appointed. But looking for eight months for their replacements is too much for the perfect state of Mr. Mitsotakis. In any case, I wish you a success, and I hope they will meet soon. But you answer me today about when you will train the 30 social workers of the SKLAF who have been waiting since October to train and when to start the candidate parents' lessons to start matching with the children. You're finally going to support this law? We're here to work with you, not to attack you. Or are you going to cancel him through ignorance or delays? Because we want to know how to resolve the major imbalances between the candidate parents you have created. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I can say, Mrs Fotio, that you give me a little hope - incoming, which you say in the SYRIZA area - honesty and while you create it, you take it back to me. Anyway, I'll be good-looking. And why am I saying that? For the little hope of honesty. You return to two questions from the five questions put by the SYRIZA Social Solidarity Department ten days ago in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. At that time we had a point in the five points which you had raised. Today I am pleased to note that you are coming back to two of five, which means that you understand the questions and the answers to the next three. We hope that both these points, on which you are coming back, on which there seems to be some confusion, will demonstrate the serious and consistent way in which we are moving towards the policy of acceptance and adoption. So you ask us when the RESANY will meet. We will also answer you about when, and about how, the RESANY will meet. The REANY was reconstructed by ministerial decision a few days ago and will meet with its new composition during this month. New President was appointed Secretary General of Social Solidarity and Fight against Poverty of the Ministry and placed in positions laid down by the law the new presidents of bodies, such as the Social Welfare Centres, such as the National Centre for Social Solidarity, as well as new persons at expert posts. As we have already announced, we want the child protection system to include the unaccompanied minors. That is why we are putting someone from the respective department of our Ministry, as well as from the new agency at the National Centre for Social Solidarity. On the contrary, we also consciously decided that child protection bodies as a whole or as a whole will not be represented, or even worse, selectively, as you have done in the past, because unlike the choice of the previous government, for us, the RESANY must be able to do its work independently of private interests. How this was done, when the previous composition of the RESANY took part in your own decision, Mrs Fotio, one and only one - I imagine selectively - a body operating child protection structures without being regarded as creating a conflict of interest there, is an honest question that we have and will probably remain unanswered. It's gonna be unanswered, though, untreated. As untreated as there will be no more serious, in our view, in the previous EVANY sessions. I am referring to the universal lack of signed practices. The RESANY met eight times. One of the eight had no signed minutes. I do not know whether keeping and signing practices is an unnecessarily technical process for you. A malicious man would say that it is a convenient way to hide disputes that do not result in consensual decisions, conflicts of interest, delays. I would like to ask you, in good faith, how you can ask us to account for the functioning of a body which, under your responsibility, did not fulfil a very basic condition of accountability. While remaining with this question, also in good faith, I undertake that the ESANY from now on will now keep a written record in full and transparent manner. Let me return to your second question concerning the educational programmes for candidates and foster parents. You're insulting us late. We answer that you suffer from a selective memory. Education was provided for in Law 4538/2018 in May. The ministerial decision on these came out the same year, in October and May primary legislation and in October 2018 secondary legislation. By July 2019, when the elections took place, nothing had happened. Half the jobs we have found in this part of policy on assumption and adoption. Actually, we didn't find half the jobs, we only found one job. Who was that? The direct assignment to study on the capital markets, what the instructors read, to one of the members of the RESANY. I would remind the citizens that the RESANY is unpaid and all we found in this direction was at random an outline of one of the members of the ESANY. To close and second, I would like to say the following: in the next few years we are sending the relevant bodies a mission. Who are the competent bodies? The regions and the Social Welfare Centres. We will be next to them at every step of the seminar organisation and thus prove in practice that we do not do politics in words and theories, but in the face of difficulties and unrest, progressing seriously and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u22	Madam Undersecretary, I have really come to work together today, but this malicious and malicious answer that you have given so far deceived me and I think you do have other objectives. Everything you said is false. You didn't reconstitute REANY. You didn't change him and he says who he puts him. You're completely wrong about what you're saying. He's got protection systems for the child. It's done by the CCPs and it's called them. What you're saying is who distinguished scientists were involved. But you like to black out a particular person. This focuses on your criticism. If you have the guts to name it. Second of all, you're talking about the lessons we made. Of course, a public institution has made the teachers' lessons, which you do not carry out, of parents. I'll testify all the lessons here. It's from the Democritus University of Xanthi. Where do you want us to assign them? Any of our private friends, like you do? The University of Xanthi doesn't make you? Thirdly, as far as these procedures are concerned, if they were to sign or not sign: Mrs Michailidou, you did not operate on the REANY eight months and you are not ashamed of that, but you ask me, let me say, fleas in straw. But we're going to the specifics to go on. Madam Secretary, I have already said that for the first time because of this law, the state knows that there are a thousand six hundred registered children in institutions. Of these, six hundred and twenty are in public institutions and a thousand forty in private law, which are currently waiting. On the other hand, a thousand three hundred fifty parents with integrated electronic applications because of the frugality of the Undersecretary experience unacceptable inequality. Immortality first. Of the thousand three hundred fifty, the two hundred seventy have completed social research and are waiting to be trained, because the law foresaw parental training, so that it can then start matching the thousands of six hundred sixty children who are currently waiting. Another five hundred eighty - candidate parents are ready to join the previous two - seventy - seventy - ones. That is, eight hundred fifty parents are ready almost this time and, because the State Secretary for Criminal Affairs has not convened for the reasons I have said - purely micro-groups - the RESANY for so many months, training is not being done and they are being delayed. The lessons have been posted since then and I don't think you'll change them. Tell me you'll change them. Now tell me from the public institution that you're going to change them. Unequal second. Two hundred eight candidate parents have not even started social research because there are no social workers. Why are there no social workers? Because while we have made the Association of Social Workers of Greece (SKLAE) since 2016 a legal person governed by public law, in order to be able to take over social workers certified, the SKLAF has at the moment been asking the Ministry for October to train them, the training courses are also ready and yet the Deputy Minister does not move on to it. Therefore, we do not have that either and I am tabling to you the Article 26 CSR, where all this is described and done and you do not apply them. We are learning in view of the timely question we are asking that you planned to start training at the end of March. We say'maybe, at least, start'. But what do you say to the parents who have been losing their turn so long and their anxiety grows because they experience this enormous injustice? It's unequal two speeds, as I described you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u23	Your Honor, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u24	Parents came to the House. We have been notified of the memorandum that has been submitted to you since 27-2 and they highlight these different velocities and injustices that exist and which circumvent the essence of the law that is equality and transparency. So I ask you: How will you remove these imbalances that you have created? It's very specific. When do you plan parental training? Will you allow ascensions and adoptions that do not fully apply the law as we learn? And finally, Mrs Michaelidou, with regard to unaccompanied minors, who have been separated over 15 years and under 15, the more than fifteen to deport them and the less than 15 that are only 10%, I am very sorry, but, as you know, the law provides that children are all given, as long as they exist in protection units. Are you telling us that the unaccompanied are in protective units? So answer me about that, too. Or are you going to give them directly by opaque procedures? Thank you, Madam President. I'm filing all the documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. I would ask you very much to do this. There's a tolerance, but not double time. It is a very serious matter, as all matters are serious. I get it. But I told you that the number of questions is too great. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be short. I'll tell you, Mrs. Fire, because I'm sorry. I'm sorry, because we're here to respond to the National Representation and inform the world, our fellow citizens. I fear that, with this triviality, no one understands why you are talking, and unfortunately I cannot put things into a reasonable flow, because they are expressions of thought which are selective and without any particular cohesion. And the "special" is the euphemism of the month. Three things I will try to touch on from these diffuse thoughts. First, the RESANY. ASANY, as you know, has thirteen members. What do we have to say about two of the thirteenths? For two of the thirteenths in the previous composition of the RESANY, we have to say that for one, namely the private child protection bodies, we are opposed. We cannot on a national board for the assumption and adoption of such a conflict of interest through the representation of a body selectively...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u27	The law doesn't have that kind of representation. The Act does not provide for such representation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, help me, because I did not say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u29	Mr Colleague, let the Minister answer what he wants to answer and then you will judge. But I think that by interrupting, my colleague, you are not helping us. Please. Madam Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u30	Mrs. Fotou, help. And I'm making a great effort to respond to this slogan. I'm making an excellent effort, but you're not helping either. So what do I want to say? Obviously, the law does not provide for a private body. That is exactly what I am saying, since the law does not provide for a private body you have gone and put it in. Why did you put on a private child protection body? Isn't there a conflict of interest? There is. The other thing I want to say. You're telling me about the Democrat. Of course, the Greek universities are very well. Why, though, were you directly entrusted? Twenty thousand went by direct assignment, not to a friend mine. I don't know if he was your friend, your acquaintance, or a valid academic. I guess the third one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u31	What name are you insinuating? Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u32	I imagine he was a valid academic. What I am saying, however, is that in my mind there is a conflict of interest when a member of the RESANY draws up the manuals directly. That's what I'm saying. If you do not understand it, I imagine that the other Members understand it. Second matter. You forsake us for delay. I would remind you that Law 4538 on adoption passed in May 2018. In February 2019, the development of the digital platform begins. In the spring of 2019, with your own mandate, the parental application starts first. The registration of the children seems to be none of your business. You tell me about lessons, lessons, lessons. Of the eighty-five structures that existed, when I received the Ministry, one year after the digital platform was legalized, do you know how many had passed? The two. Of the eighty-one structures you had passed the children from two structures. What can I say? To say that you had made some progress, or that our lessons care more than the children go through? No, in my leadership of the Ministry, there was a prioritization. We went through the kids, and now we're looking at the lessons. Within six months, we passed from July to December sixty-two structures, from December to January eighty one. That's what we did. And finally, for the SKLA. How did you deal with the large volume of applications, you say, in relation to the social workers of the PSE? SYRIZA, with a further election on 7-6-2019, discovered the need to strengthen the staff of supervisory bodies. On this matter, the Tribunal published the notice four months later. When? At 10-10-2019 and following several exhortations from the Ministry. It was only at the end of the year that in December 2019 we had the first picture of the number of social workers involved in this service. It is clear that we will proceed, as we have already done, directly, despite the delay in the procedure that has been caused for reasons of responsibility but not ours. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u33	What are you going to do with the parents?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u34	Thank you too, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the following topical questions will not be discussed in consultation with a Minister with a Member: The fourth question under number 552/27-2-2020 is the first question of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: ‘Check-out of damages for the Dieselgate scandal’. And the third under number 535/19-2-2020 up-to-date question of the second question of the MEP Lauration of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Aid for conversion into organic practices and methods in agriculture in 2017’. Now we will discuss the third with number 560/3-2020 a top-level question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The structures of the Centres for Creative Employment of Children (CDE) and Centres for Creative Employment of Children with Disabilities (CDEs)". The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, there is a strong concern of the two thousand fifty workers in CDIs and CDIs - ACE of the municipalities and parents of benefiting children in four hundred five municipal CDIs, without the double shifts being calculated, and ninety-three CDIs - ACE structures, because of their reputation for financing the 'Harmonisation of family and professional life' action or its drastic reduction after the end of the current period of July. These structures continue to be of a temporary nature. Workers are renewing their contracts each year after they are linked to the ESDP programme and this calls into question the continuity of their structures and employees. Their operation is valid for a limited period, it has an end date, with the funding being uncertain, of course, and the European Union's guidelines for partial benefits and measures. These are guidelines that are directly contradictory to the need for public structures that meet all needs, to operate permanently with permanent workers, with rights and direct funding from the state budget. These structures are not only a basic need for the people's family, they are first and foremost necessary for the proper development of psychosomatic development and the normal socialization of the child. Recently, your statement, Minister, is that the state budget cannot be charged from the operation of the structures and should be sought for funding. This is how you open up the way of privatising even these poor social structures that have been left in local administration. This means that either the structures of the municipalities' own resources will be financed, i.e. in return for a higher burden on the citizens by increasing taxes and charges, or by a monthly financial burden on the parents of the kind of food, by entering into other reasonable criteria with income and by saying, either by closing them to facilitate the private structures that already grow like mushrooms. The workers' demands, in our view, are fair. They have the support of too many bodies, municipalities, the Higher Confederation of Parents of Greece. They are fully compatible with the modern needs of new families for permanent structures in municipalities, without business activities that must not only remain, but should be extended to remain in operation as public free structures and not be converted into a market-based need. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will you take to ensure the public and free nature of these structures for all children of the people's families with permanent and adequate funding, taking into account the need to extend the network of public structures so as to cover all children without conditions and conditions, that there is no funding for private structures which in 2019-2020 deprived 60% of total funding and, secondly, what measures will you take to stop this unacceptable regime of the haircut of structures in legal persons governed by public law or private law? You know that 60% of structures operate through private-law legal persons, so-called public-private enterprises that act uncontrollablely and without effective control over the direction of money. Result of the long-term delays in the payment of the staff payroll, leading them to the limits of economic impoverishment, with poor structural operational needs. And thirdly, what measures will you take to ensure that these structures operate in a single framework all over Greece in a common administrative form, so as to ensure a minimum of uniform educational planning and scientific control of their objectives and, finally, to transform existing fixed-term contracts into an indefinite and additional one, to proceed to a call for other permanent jobs, necessary to cover the services offered by these structures and to fully guarantee their wage and insurance rights. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u36	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Synhronakis, I had the pleasure of responding to Mr Kegeroglu a few days ago. First of all, I would like to say something very important. What I said is that we ideally want the state budget not to be imposed and to continue to be financed from the European Union's resources. There is no one in this Chamber who argues that CSR and CSR - ACE are necessary structures for both children and parents, especially for those who work long hours and do not have the luxury of dedicating time to their children. So what we're going to do is this. Firstly, in cooperation with the Ministries of Development and Investment and Labour it will continue and be completed - and I think we will - the integration of funding into the programme: the harmonization of family and working life for the next programming period and the next school year, if you like. This, as a European programme, enables all workers' contracts to be automatically renewed for another year. From there on, there is indeed a need - and rightly so you - for 'homogenisation', if you like, of the teaching programme of the CIDDs - AIAs and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, we will see it immediately and we will move towards a horizontal, if you want, the creation of guidelines for all CDIs - AARs either operate within the municipalities or operate within private individuals. As you have pointed out, you disagree. The government's view is different. There are private CDIs which operate and are subsidised, as is the case with the programme for the kindergartens where children, apart from a public kindergarten, can choose a private kindergarten. Also another issue that we need to look at in detail is the geographical distribution of CCTBs - AIA. In central Macedonia, for example, there are more - and that is right. We probably need to see where new RDP can be created in particular, in densely populated areas and, above all, in the Attica region. Therefore, I can assure you that our intention and will - apart from shocking unforeseen events - is to continue funding from European funds. Otherwise, we are clearly saying that the programmes will continue even if the state budget, which has specific tolerances, is to be charged, as you know, is needed. European funding gives us the possibility of automatically renewing contracts. If it does not happen, we will see alternative ways of priority recruitment of officials who have specific experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u39	Minister, I think with the answers you have given, the workers in these structures are not particularly pleased, and, of course, the parents who are unreasonably seeing the continuation of municipal structures. And you know, these structures are a basic support to the poor families who, as a unique way out for the ex-school teaching, artistic, athletic, cultural activity of their children, have these structures as well. Nevertheless, they remain shattered, deficits and should be extended due to increased needs to implement the practice and ensure child care and safety. You say that you are going to make a rational distribution. But they are lacking and they need much more to meet all the needs that today exist mainly in new couples, new families, their children. You are insisting again on state funding that we need to get rid of sometime and see what happens with European funds. You reiterated this today. Today, therefore, these structures are financed mainly by national resources, through the part of the national funds of the "Harmonization of family and working life" action, which, instead of being allocated to supporting and expanding these public municipal structures throughout Greece and in each municipality, are chosen to pay the corresponding private funds which are spreading rapidly. However, municipal structures are not subject to market rules. Municipal public structures cannot be put into the same balance as private structures. Where and how far should private structures be financed from national resources? We don't understand that thing. The question why national funds do not go directly into the municipality budget to strengthen these structures by municipality and for the whole of the country remains politically unanswered. That's not what you're answering. Look, in 2019, sixty-seven thousand children employed in the CIDS are recorded in public and private, with the lion's share having it as private as 65%. They had to resort to these private structures because of a lack of public structures. However, of course, the actual number of outpatient children is much greater, as many families did not have the right to participate in the program and did not apply for it. The vouchers that share are much more than the available places. They're cardboard boxes, which for many have no special impact. In 2019 vouchers worth 10m euros were not activated due to a lack of positions. So they won't be disbursed. It is expected next year that seventy-two thousand vouches will be given to a much larger number of structures because of the increase in private sector, so that we have a horizontal reduction in funding for all municipalities. So where are you going with this? You're taking it to shrink public structures and boost them, blowing up private structures like mushrooms. So here is how, with the policy of vouchers, this reactionary Euro-Union policy is legitimate that the education and care of the child does not exist as a social need, as a right for all children, but as a commodity. These structures, in our view, must operate in a uniform context, all-embracing in a common administrative form. This is not what you say in order to overcome today's practice, where structures are administratively subject to three different legal forms of local government. You have referred to this, but very generally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u40	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude, Madam President. It must therefore come to an end to the perpetuation of workers' work hostages with continuous renewal contracts. They are people who work ten, fifteen and seventeen years in this job. It is necessary to ensure that these structures remain in operation as public free structures, that this need for the child and the family does not turn into a marketplace. I would say to you this: for workers, there are the authorised national funds within harmonisation, so no additional financial costs will be incurred, so recruitment will not be subject to the known restrictions. After all, this has happened with the 'Help at Home' programme. Why don't you apply it? Do it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u43	You know, there's a different ideological approach. She's absolutely respected. We have our own approach and you have your own approach. We believe that the public good of education is important, it is high. This does not, however, exclude the private sector's contribution to developing and providing quality services. We want every child, who wants to go to a nursery, to be able to satisfy his request to go to a nursery, whether public or private, like any child, who wants access to an AACC, to be able to enjoy these services either in a public or private environment. You also know that building sites from the municipalities is a process which is very complex, it is too slow and it is not easy to do so within one or two months. So what we are going to do is continue the programme in the same way as it works, with the contribution of both the private sector and the public sector. We support self-government. We will examine very sensitively and very positively any new needs, which exist, for the creation of new CSR and CSR - ACF and with more, if you wish, or even greater sensitivity obviously for CSR - ACF. In any case, however, what we are going to do is to ensure that all children are able to meet the highest percentage of needs in order to have access to these services. As far as staff are concerned, I said it before. What I am saying again is that we will find a way to fund and continue to operate the programme and we will find a way to see the officials who are already working for a certain period of time. You know, in this country we also have the following absurdity, which I have said before. Permanent staff hired it as seasonal and seasonal as permanent. This must at some point be streamlined and this will gradually be done by the recruitment plan that the Ministry of the Interior is doing. In closing, because you also referred to public utilities and said that they are uncontrolled, I would like to say that they are obviously not uncontrollable, obviously and have control, apparently and are posted to "DIAGY", obviously they have all the regulatory framework that applies to the bodies of the General Government and I think it is the choice of each municipality, if they want to operate the service through the public-owned business that they have or through the municipal body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. The fourth question under number 542/25-2-2020 will now be discussed in the second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, on the subject: "Contracts working in the cleanliness of the schools. The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Lebanon. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the contract workers in the cleanliness of schools are about nine and a half thousand. For years they have been in a work hostage in the realm. Paid crustaceans with the miserable working regime of the contractor and the renewal of their contracts have been at the disposal of the relevant municipal authorities in recent years. They are women in their vast majority with 12 and 15 years of work in schools, who raise their shoulders the critical area of health and cleanliness of school units. The problem of the cleanliness of schools has deteriorated and requires permanent staff to assist the needs of the school community throughout the course of the school, and it is not just about the cleanliness of the rooms at the end of the school's operation. Today, it is visible that sanitation conditions in schools may lead to even more dangerous roads if the government does not take immediate measures and let things evolve on the basis of the existing institutional framework established by Article 115 of Law 4547/2018. Thousands of contractual cleaners in June 2020 will lead to a visible development that multiplys the dangerous deadlocks in school hygiene with the lack of funding of the municipalities for this responsibility assigned to them, known as the restrictive framework applicable to the recruitment of such staff to the municipalities and with no time horizon at this time for the municipalities to initiate procedures for any recruitment of personnel. In view of the above, the Government and the Ministry in charge must resolve this crucial issue immediately and at last give a definitive solution by permanentising cleaners in schools. Any governmental oliguria means its signature to lay off thousands of contracted cleaners in schools and its will that the school's cleanliness be delivered to contractors and contractors. Is the Minister and the Government asking: will you insist on the application of the unacceptable institutional framework which the SYRIZA Government has given you, with a vision, again, on the possibility that in the new school year, cleanliness contractors will enter school, or will you finally proceed with the permanentization of the already existing school cleaners, who have been held hostage for years and are paid for the floors with the crumbs of the contractor? Secondly, will you further strengthen with the necessary funding the municipalities to respond adequately to the cleanliness work of school units and to ensure that children and teachers are healthy in modern terms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for having been consistent in your time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Stoltides, let's agree on something. Obviously, the question of the cleanliness of school units is of paramount importance to the safety and health of both pupils and teachers. Therefore, it is certain that we need to see this problem and that there is no issue in all the schools in the country, especially since the new school year. With regard to the cleaning up of school units, we have this paradox. Since 2010, the power to conclude school cleaning contracts has been transferred to the municipalities by successive legislative arrangements. The latest extension, which the previous government did adopt, expires school year 2019-2020, which ends in June. To have a picture of the numbers, I tell you that two thousand five hundred and eighty-nine cleaners are undetermined and are employed with a permanent employment relationship and eight thousand three hundred seventy-seven are the works contracts which INEDIBIM has done on the cleanliness of schools. The fact that a definitive solution has to be given to this issue, yes, must be given. We cannot wait every year and open and close our own capital either by extensions or not. As the situation is right now in cooperation and with the Ministry of Education will see if it can be changed. What will happen and I can assure you is that from the new school year onwards, school contracts come to the OTAs directly. This may create some issues, which we will see how we can rethink so that the cleaners who are currently working on cleaning are not involved. The sure thing is that we will work with all the relevant ministries so that the new school year will not cause any problems. What is going to be done is for the municipalities to tell us again what needs they have to meet the school halls and that the conventions will proceed. I insist that there is no central intention, if you like, to change the function. Each municipality and each local government shall have its own right to request the positions it deems necessary for the cleanliness of the school units. It is obvious that the question of school units will be seen immediately and we see it very sensitively, because it is one of the well-known issues which concerns parents, pupils and all those in the school environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. To tell the truth, I do not see why this answer to the eight thousand workers - the vast majority of women - should be optimistic about school cleanliness. It is confirmed in a way, if you like, that the thought that puts the same question and our first position, namely that the orientation continues to be the same, with the risks envisaged. But here I would urge you to include some elements in your second place. At this time with flu and coronary, these workers are working without the necessary personal protective equipment, as reported by the Circulars arriving in the schools for masks, uniforms, etc. This, if you wish, shows to a certain extent hypocrisy in relation to the sensitivity and measures that are widely advertised in dealing with the disease. Of course, the scientific community should also have a say here. To take care of the impeccable cleanliness and disinfection of schools, they inhale daily chemicals, chlorine-carcinogens, as known - without the corresponding PPE. This is also a question - because we do not recognise any local government, but it is local government - about what you will do in the direction of providing personal protection, despite the fact that these are paid to the municipalities by the state and are not paid, in order to protect workers from serious health risks. There is an authoritarianism and a half, that is, as anyone who wants to commit money - the rights of workers who absolutely need it with'so I want', jeopardizing their own physical integrity. They also work without labour rights. They don't even have the elementary ones. They shall not be entitled to sickness, maternity or maternity leave. They are paid per classroom, with a maximum payroll that can be reached when there are eighteen rooms to clean up, which, to get out every day, takes eight hours of unstoppable work. And while they are paid per classroom, they are not included in these rooms of Music, Informatics, gyms, physics, offices, workshops, which are not declared in "My School" and are not compensated by INEDIBIM, but are yet cleaned daily. It is what we say'masking up the medulla'. This is, Minister, a medieval labour relations which actually offends human dignity and tramples the minimum, elementary labour rights and underestimates the fundamental needs of workers with regard to their survival and health. We say that we must not tolerate this situation, neither the teachers nor the parents nor the children themselves. It's about their own health, their own life. It is about defending their own employment relationship, about their employment rights, about a policy - and your own governance - which has quickly established at the very beginning the smashing of any employment right left. On the basis of your reply, therefore, we believe that workers should be directly involved in battle stations. We call on them to organize their struggle immediately and say that the eight and a half thousand workers have the power to enforce and conquer what they are entitled to. We are committed to supporting them with all our powers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u51	I'll say two things to what you said, where I think it's important to agree and do it. The first is that we will obviously press because they are unthinkable workers in the cleanliness of premises not to have the personal protective equipment they deserve. It must be protected, first of all, their own health. So we will see how we will be able to force all municipalities to find the means of personal protection. I think it is not at discretion, but it is their obligation to offer what is necessary. The second is this: you raise a matter which concerns us for many years and concerns, if you like, the employment relationship between workers who are involved in a project lease. This is being examined by the Ministry of the Interior. The status of licences you have set is also considered. Indeed, it is. Project contracts, particularly a large part of which was cleanliness - for example, as rental contracts - were not entitled to permits, etc. All this is being examined immediately and we will see in a short time how it will be resolved so that it is fair to the rest of the workers at least in this part. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that the government's commitment is that it will do everything in its power to have clean schools so that teachers and students can work properly. We will do this in every way, in cooperation with the CEDEFOP. We're in constant dialogue with her, so we can find the best way to get complete cleanliness in schools. I think that the outcome of this dialogue will soon be to come to a final solution to this issue in a way that will give the student community the best possible result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u52	And thank you, Minister. Now we will discuss the sixth question under number 543/25-2-2020 in the second question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, with the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Releases of workers following the revision of the successful lists of ASP 3K/2018 for the recruitment of regular staff to the municipalities". The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes and I would ask you to keep the time if you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u53	I will do my best, Madam President. It is the third question from our party to the Minister responsible. We hope she's the lucky third and not the pharmacist. The announcement of 3K/2018 on the recruitment of eight thousand hundred sixty-six employees in the municipalities was the fruit of long-standing long-standing workers' struggles in the municipalities. A central demand for that long-standing struggle was, of course, the permanentisation of all contractors. Of course, in the context of the policies of all the governments - and the New Democracy Government and the SYRIZA Government - they refuse to satisfy this request and we have resulted in this struggle calling for about eight thousand posts, of course linked to the reward fees. The final results of this notice were issued fourteen months after June 2019. By September 2019, all these eight thousand hundred sixty-six employees had already been sworn out, were already on duty and had already begun to work. Let most of them work and the previous one or two years, that is, the previous period. They have been working since September 2019 in the municipalities for six months. However, following the adoption of the final ACE tables, applications for treatment were submitted by candidates who considered that they had been wronged. At the end of November, the AACC issue new final tables, i.e. the second final tables to be placed on the positions of objectors and their objections had been accepted. This means, of course, that they have been excluded, excluded and deducted from equal successes of the first tables already in work in the municipalities. How many now are they, according to the answer to our written question? They're two hundred four. That's how we got 'em out. All these two hundred four employees who were sworn in September and who have been working for six months, according to the Ministry's reply, are fired! That's the Ministry's answer. We read it and didn't believe in our eyes! In our question, we call it 'a monument of analgesia and an anti-government policy'. We hope in your current answer. And not only do we hope, but they also fight the workers who are watching, to be sure, to discuss this question. So we ask you directly: What are you going to do so that none of those who have already been sworn out, while at the same time ensuring the work of those who objected to them, is fired? What will you do, so that this arrangement that will be given, also cover new final tables? Because you know, this is a process, which does not stop according to the AACC. In other words, there is no final date for lodging objections. And what will you do, of course, so that these workers, who change with the new definitive work organisation tables - often change a working city - can choose which city they will work in? Of course, any vacancies in some municipalities will be covered by the participants in the 3K Statement. We are waiting for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u55	The 3K notice was one of the biggest awards in recent years in Greece. It was, therefore, mainly for workers in reciprocity services. In fact - to say this clearly - it was a way of transforming certain fixed-term contracts, whether work on permanent jobs with increased premiums for the already staffed. This process was initiated by the previous government under Mr Skourleti's Minister, if I am not mistaken. That is where I understand why it has happened. If I were him - with all due respect and appreciation - I wouldn't. In order to speed up the procedure, the supporting documents of the applicants were not requested. The result is about one hundred and twenty-eight thousand applications submitted for about eight thousand positions - that is, how much interest was - including about five and a half thousand were university education, six thousand were technological education, six thousand were secondary education, and seventy thousand were compulsory education, and the first ranking from the AACC was based on the information they declared themselves. So that's where the first paintings came out. The respondents objected. This led to overthrow of the paintings. New paintings followed. Applications for the treatment of the candidates were followed. The paintings have changed again. Indeed, there were cases where someone was inside a table and after the treatment application came out of the table. In fact, there were cases where an employee was originally appointed to the "A" city and after the revision of the tables he was forced to move to a second city. I'd like to make a few things clear. Firstly, the increased premium was granted. Is that good? So let's assume that it was well given. All the AACC competitions since 1994, since the establishment of the Staff Selection Board, have had a certain structure. Applications are made. The paintings are coming out. Objections are made and final tables come out. Incidentally, with the bill we are debating today, we are reducing the time spent on applications for treatment in three months, so that this really complicated situation does not continue and does not happen again. Don't tell her otherwise. Has a worker been appointed in a position that he didn't want? Oh, no. Even the case in the Municipality of Tirnavos mentioned inside, this official had declared Tirnavos as one of the options. And the reclassification of the paintings created this movement. In fact - we have seen it in the answer - obviously as it is done on all the AACC notices, when someone is, in essence, recruited with temporary tables or final tables and coming out after the final results, if they are out of table, stops his work relationship. What can we do for them? I said it in the previous answer. There is the so-called supplementary 3K notice, which will come out as soon as this issue with the tables is over and we have the final results. There, we have asked the municipalities to send us their requests that are still in place to meet them. The AACC notice will be issued. I can't tell you the exact time yet. We're trying as soon as we can. Unfortunately, however, ASAP has a limited - if you like - rate that can make notices. There are serious notices that are running at the moment. Among these are the Deputys of the Ministry of Education, for schools, for the new school year. There's a series of notices. There will therefore also be an additional 3K notice. There we will ask for the documents at the outset to be limited to the number of objections and to proceed to a quicker procedure - if you want - to issue final tables and without vaporizing this issue with requests for treatment. And there, obviously, will be an increased moleculosis so that the officials, who are currently outside the tables, and even in other tables, can be appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes. Please, as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u57	I'll try. Minister, because I have listened very carefully to your reply, I think that the substance of your reply is in the supplementary 3K which will be done and which will, of course, concern all those who participated in normal 3K. We have asked you very specifically about these two hundred four who are being made redundant for all the three hundred who change their work organisation, many times and a working city. According to your answer, therefore - and you have a secondary one, we hope you will change it - these five hundred workers have to pay for the government choices, both for the failures and the bad design of an AACC contest. Because that's what this is about. It is not possible for workers to have been recruited, to be in the final tables, to have sworn, to have taken over and worked for six months and suddenly, to tell them that by 15 March you will be fired. You have to do something about it. Most of them - not to say all - worked before September, for one or two years. In the Municipality of Thessaloniki - because we have a very specific picture - there are ten workers under dismissal and thirteen travellers. Among these ten, Minister, there is one, who came from abroad, from Switzerland. He gave up his job. He brought his family because he took up a permanent job in the Municipality of Thessaloniki. Because a lot sounds in here for the Brain Drain and the Brain Game. So this man, you fire him. Of course, let's see what she's gonna do. Not to mention the case of the worker, who like you said suddenly from Ptolemais came to Thessaloniki, moved family, brought her child, wrote it to school, and now, she has to go to Tirnavo. You say it was her choice. Okay, when someone has the right to make a hundred and twenty choices, they'll be filled with all the hundred and twenty. But I think the first choices are the ones that count. In any case, we think that the mayors - most of them at least - have said that even the 3K have covered the loopholes of municipal services. Here we are, then, glorious field. These five hundred people, the two in the first place, don't get fired. There is also a legal precedent. It is precisely this procedure that was followed by Law No 4483 in the case in point 82 that a similar case was treated by the law in question. We believe that this can be done in this case too, so that as well as those whose objections are entitled to work, but also these two hundred are not fired. You know, I told you in my amendment. There's no end date for a statement of objections. So, what's going to happen? Constantly, will we have new final tables and continuously, will we have new redundant and new travellers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u59	With regard to the last thing you said, I said that three months we will give time-limits for treatments from now on so that this situation does not occur, which, in some cases, may also be unfair. The 3K, as it worked, was a great school in how to conduct such competitions at the SAAP. Indeed, we have seen things that will serve us as a guide for the next cases. Officials, who, by adopting the provisional tables - I repeat - probably stay out of work, have every right to judicial protection and are likely to exercise their right, because the employment relationship they had no longer existed since they came out of final lists. I insist that those who stayed outside will be able to submit a position in the new notice. And because this is very important, we always look and see in some cases how we can find the best possible solution. In any case, however, when a municipality asks for 20 places and takes twenty places, taking twenty-two at the moment, if there is no such request, I do not know how to satisfy it. We've collected the demands of the municipalities. There are also some cases that we have discussed and the other things we had not said, and we have given an implied extension to state the positions that have been opened in the 3K, but to that extent. These positions will be announced in a short time and within the year, and I think the vast majority will be able to be absorbed there as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the second with number 567/3-2020, a topical question for the second cycle of MP B3 South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Papapas to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Stap for growth and jobs, the freezing of major infrastructure projects'. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u61	Minister, eight months after the election and the most reliable observer of events has realised that promises about 4% growth have been thrown out of the window. It is not possible, so long after the elections, to come and tell us - and I would like to warn you about this - that it is the international round about any negative developments. You have made a crucial choice to freeze all the great works. The estimates of international organisations are much less than 4%. The Community, OECD and International Monetary Fund estimate that growth will go close to 2% and you have made very specific choices. You are not paying social dividends to three million people on Christmas, so the market, especially in the province, is suffering. You've frozen the big projects. We are talking about two factors that are ready to regain any growth potential. We would really like to think and think about what exactly you have in mind, because you have frozen Kastelli, which, two months after the political change of July, had to start work. You have frozen the northern road axis of Crete. You have frozen Patras - Tower, which you say will cancel existing contracts and award the work to another consortium. You have frozen in the north of E65, the subway of Thessaloniki. And of course, since we've been together, you can also tell us a date for the Greek, to have a picture of what's going to happen. The question is this because I have your election programme here which says that with these infrastructure projects we will have at least 1.4% of GDP and forty thousand jobs, do you currently have an estimate of whether growth from the freezing of all these projects goes back? Have you failed your election strategy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "Worker of Democracy" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and two teachers from the 10th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u63	Mr Colleague, you are living in a dream world of your own, or indeed the defeat of 7 July is too heavy for you and you still haven't come to your senses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u64	Never mind. Go to the point!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u65	I would ask you, Madam President, to cut them off immediately and not to have any interruptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Comrade, let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u67	The "forknowledge" to your friends, Nikos, not the Minister of the Parliament. Okay? Do we understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u69	This is Mr. Minister! Let it be known to your friends and not to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u71	Please, Madam President, impose order! "Let's not know" Nikolakis will tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u72	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Comrade, let the Minister answer! You have a dentistry! Please. Please. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u74	I don't think this is going through. Where they take you, not me! Let's go now. All your question must be taught at a university as a monument of lies. Firstly, all holidays and previous weeks you have made statements about the collapse of the market. The collapse of the market has only been seen by you and your party friends. Do you not know that on the market what we only measure with an objective indicator, public revenues from the retail value added tax? Do you know that, in the festive period, the retail value added tax has increased, so the turnover has increased? Write for a 40% drop and you're not ashamed! You said here just now that we cut the dividend to three million. You don't know, Minister, that the dividend money you shared in May before the European elections for the first time in your term, and every time you gave it to you in December, why did you think that with this money you would buy out the citizens to vote on you, but they finally tanned you? So since you know that you spent the money in May, you come and give up for us, because we didn't give up more money in December, while in fact "we've born" a little more is the truth, about a billion dollars. Now we're going to the plays and I'm going to stay in one particular one: Castelli. Don't you know that it was inaugurated by the Prime Minister at the beginning of February? Did you have it ready for you to start? Yeah? And you're not telling me, after you had it ready to start, the loan with the European Investment Bank to get the money in, how did we sign it? After you say you guys had it ready for you truths, so you don't get upset if I'm lying to you, how do you guys get ready for the play, but you don't have the money? The money, therefore, Mr Papapas, was signed by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis with the European Investment Bank. I was present at the relevant signature. The agreement was signed by Mr Kostas Karamanlis and the foundation stone of the project was put by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The project in Kastelli has begun with a contractor to GEK TERNA and the large Indian construction group. And of course it is a project, as much as it regrets me to say, of the New Democracy, not only because the foundation stone has now entered, but because in the New Democracy and in the government of Costa Karamanlis this project has been arrested. That's when it started. Unfortunately, the crisis was delayed. As a government, you didn't start it. As a government, we started it. And you have the nerve to write it down on paper. Second memorial tone: Write for this famous Patras - Tower Street. But, well, you, Mr. Pappas, are you telling us about the project that is the monument of SYRIZA's difference in Greek territory? Didn't the Greek people know that the work that you had done in partitioning so that your friend, Mr. Kalogris, could get it before you sold it, of course, and lead the man to bankruptcy? So, you know very well that it was your fault that the work was not done, and now the government was unlocking it and moving forward. I would particularly like to refer to BOAK, because the inclusion of BOAK in your question, Mr Pappa, is beyond me personally. I will testify for the minutes of the House and say in my dentext on the PPP projects to know what we, the service response to the BOAK, received from SYRIZA. He claims, Madam President, in his question, of course, that the project was ready to begin in September 2019. ‘The second phase of the competitive procedures by submitting technical and economic tenders in November 2019’, you write in your question. I don't read it, but you'll see the service notes with the dates. I will only tell you the most important thing that is of great interest, that if you say it, I read it from the service response, on the basis of the above figures, the claim for the implementation of a timetable for the second phase of competitive procedures in September 2019, is completely arbitrary, unfounded and could not lead to the adoption of a comprehensive basic design. Further, however, says the service, Mr.Pappa's claim for the submission of technical and economic offers in November 2019, apparently suggests that this statement would be requested before the adoption of a GGF decision, as it takes by law seven months from the first phase to the second phase for GDP to come out. I'm making the answer. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you economists would go to phase two without GDP? Where are the party of ecology and calamity - sorry! - Left! So all your question is false. The whole question, from the first to the last line, is lies. And I'm ashamed you're coming to the House with lies. In any case, in my dentistry, I will tell you what we and the Greek people have done to know that we have received all the great works frozen by you, without studies, without money, without anything and one - all the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is taking them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, please try to keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u76	I will not give up the effort during this House to have a level debate with Mr Georgiadis. Obviously it is not his idiosyncrasy to have such conversations, but we as a Qualified Opposition will insist. Mr. Georgiadis, I will start from the following: For the Patras - Tower, we inform that Mr. Kalogritsas has become less than our own government. If you want further information or go to Mr. Theodorikos, who is his partner, or Mr. Loverdos who is his lawyer. Well, over here I think this joke is cut off. I would tell you, if you want to update, go for a walk to Elias to see what people are saying at the moment about this project. You avoid, of course, talking about matters of your competence. I saw - before I entered the Chamber - that you have reproduced a Capital.gr post where it says that 1,8 billion PPP projects are integrated. The 1.5 billion of these are our projects and 0.3 billion, yours. I've got the dates in detail. It is 80% SYRIZA 20% New Democracy, where 20% is only in design. You put the ultra fast broadband project. In the post what you reproduce is the ultra fast broadband project. It is the interconnecting of ultra-speeds across the country for areas where there is no commercial interest in the private sector. It has been integrated since the beginning of the 19th and of course it is going very well in the competition that we planned. How did you not put the "ZEEZIS" that is another EUR 600,000,000? I would like to ask you this: what is going on with the Public Investment Programme? We gave you costs of 500,000,000 more than the first half of 1918 for the first six months of 19 and you were able to do so at the end of the year, 750,000,000 euros less than in 2018. Development law: In development law, the supposed one you brought, tell us what costs have been incurred. Tell us if any projects have been included and what costs have been incurred? Nothing. Zero. Strategic investment: You are only talking about acts initiated by our own government. Absolutely nothing. We have to suggest with emphasis two fundamental moves so that our economy does not jeopardise your own bad practices and unfavourable international developments: Firstly, restart major public works, which are not only job-creating at the time of their construction, but also increase the overall productivity of the economy, and secondly - and more importantly, I would also like an answer - take advantage of the pillow to make a financial space. There is a post, Mr Georgiadis - and I would like your opinion, your opinion and an update by the Government - which says that the Greek side proposed that there should be a cash collateral for the guarantees made by the public for the project 'HRAKLIS'. When the plan "HRAKLIS" came, the government said that the Greek taxpayer would not be charged. A denial of you could solve the mystery or confirm our own fears that the pillow is ready to use it to clean up their books and not to breathe the real economy. As for the traffickers on the market, take a walk in the province and ask your colleagues - now of course you will not be ahead, because the timely question is over, but it would be very interesting to discuss it - to give you the official communiqués of trade associations and chambers of commerce in the province. People cry with black tears. And they're coming to see the Minister of Development here saying everything went well on the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm starting a little bit with PPP projects. I'll testify to the exact reference. Mr. Pappa, listen, on 7 July we had an election. What has been approved after 7 July by the Interministerial Committee of the PPP is work of our Government, what was approved by the Interministerial PPP committees by 7 July is your government's work. Here I give you 1.8 billion adopted after 7 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u79	No, you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u80	Madam President, I cannot be interrupted. I listened silently to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u81	Minister, don't answer, continue your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u82	Take the service answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u83	You guys talking about the Minutes again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u84	No, there is no such procedure, Madam President. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u85	Minister, please, it's your business. Continue your speech and do not address the Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u86	I can't talk and speak underneath. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u87	Please don't address yourself. What am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u88	But this is the House, in any case, not a party of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u89	Minister, continue your speech. Your Honor, please do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u90	I repeat, all the projects I submit are specific decisions of the Interministerial PPP Committee after 7 July. And in any case, you've lost. Stick it up. Stand up for it. It is almost sad and mourning to keep telling us that you would do things that you did not have to do. In the question you are telling us about September and November 19 that you would do so. You've been in the government for four and a half years. If you'd done it before July 19. Every time you come to the House and tell us the same fairy tale "we wanted, but we did not have a chance" is sad and mourning at the same time and you are not worth it or maybe you deserve it. I'm not sure. However, projects of 1,8 billion are approved in our day, they have protocol number, they have taken FEK, they are not questioned. Let's go down. And we'll do a lot more. Already yesterday, I can tell you that we also had a meeting with the Minister of Justice on other PPP projects concerning the Minister of Justice and that the PPP projects generally progressed very intensively. I want to make a special report here, because you mentioned it, about PPPs in particular. You know, you're the government that managed to deliver us over a billion to PPPs for waste management indisposedly. And one of the first things I had to deal with as Minister was a letter from the Commissioner responsible, Mr Han, with the bell that because you have done absolutely nothing for five years - in the five years of SYRIZA - Greece is in danger of losing a billion PPP from waste management. So having as a sad record for five years you have not been able to do a PPP project to manage waste, except for the two that had been launched by the Antonis Samaras government and which, fortunately, the district managers have not stopped there, is also a monument of shame. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the turnover of shops now, because here we have a difference: I, Mr Papapapa, have been dealing with trade since I was 15 years old. My first books sold 15 years at Kifisia’s book fair. I know that merchants have - I put myself in - a habit, never to be happy. The announcements of the trade clubs on which you are relying, they have an interesting historical, little substance, because the cigarettes of the stores are now electronically recorded - I told you - from VAT and it is not disputed. It's not your word, it's what's been in the state fund since the receipts were issued. So that's a non-fighting presumption. That's it. The banquet guy went over last year. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But I have to say one last thing you said, which I would like to say and thank you for making the point. You told us that you increased by EUR 600,000, 000, the public investment programme, its absorption in the first half of 19th compared with the first half of 1918. It's the only truth you've ever said. Indeed, what you said is accurate. What was the big difference between the first semester of '18 and the first semester of '19? Anyone can understand. In the first half of '18 you know that the elections will be held over a year later, you were not interested in spending the money quickly, so at the end of the day there were indisposed balances in the Public Investment Plan, which you parked in the development bank because you had not spent it. In the first half of 19, however, wicked people knowing that the elections are coming, just as you shared the money with the allowance in May - which you did to us before it was smart - to buy out the citizens' vote, so you scattered the Public Investment Programme. What for? Either because you thought that this way you'd buy out some more votes or because you wanted the next government to get the fund empty. You both fell out. The Public Investment Project went better in 19 than in 18 as a whole and we are therefore very pleased, the absorption of the NSRP, while it was 5% in the first half of 19's, 9% in the second half of 19's, which is why we received the European Commission's congratulations - and we continue very hard in 2020 so that a single euro is not lost from the money you left unspent. Because, for people to know what you've done, five years of SYRIZA absorbance in ESRB expenditure, in money you're talking about, 22%. The five-year-old 22%! Nineteenth place in the European Union. And you come here proud of yourself because you put us in the nineteenth place and 22% absorption until the last year of the program. So, I'm rejoicing: The works are freezing. They have difficulties, because unfortunately you left it all halfway through. But they're freezing. And with regard to the Thessaloniki metro you mentioned, the recent decision of the CAS and the decision taken is to undo the work and go very quickly. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] With regard to Mr. Kalogritsa you mentioned, I, in your place, and in your personal place - I am sure you knew Mr. Kalogritsa, socially, didn't you know Mr. Kalogritsa?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u91	What does that matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u92	Minister, let's close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u93	Again, I would be more kind and more careful with Mr. Kalogerica while respecting your personal relationship. But you don't even want to do that. And people see how you treat your friends when they fall, how you forget them. So you said that your government was the one who endured Kalograchi from the works. But it was your government that incorporated Mr. Kalogritsa into the works - and you joined him and we learned Mr. Spirtzi's special law that fragmented the Olympian road - but you also answered him when he stopped being useful to you. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u94	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u95	You answered him when he stopped being useful to you. And it's not nice to treat your friends that way. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u96	I now announce that we then have a large bill to discuss at a meeting. There will be a relative tolerance of time to both colleagues and to the Minister, but not to speak seven and a half instead of three minutes. I'm making it clear so we don't have davants. We need to start the bill and we're already late. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theories, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Artemis High School (first section). The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now we move on to the first with number 3679-30-1-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis to the Minister of Development and Investment, on “Investing in the “Navy” region of Zakynthos”. Here, Mr Skourletis, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am sure you have gone to Zakynthos, you may also have taken pictures in the well-known Nayagio area. So there, as you know very well, in 2014 a company named "PIMANA SA" appeared in the interests of Emir of Qatar, who - oh of the miracle - bought from a owner of fifteen thousand acres. From an owner of fifteen thousand acres in Zakynthos! The first question: I do not know whether there is such a great single property on the Greek islands. This gray process, therefore, when it was perceived by the inhabitants, made sense to go to the courts. And with them, Metropolis Zakynthos, the Holy Monastery of Agios Georgios Kremnons, the Ionian Islands Region, the Municipality of Zakynthos and dozens of Zakynthian citizens. It seemed that this not being done on the island, but in Athens, it was based on something of unspecified prestigious Venetian titles about patronage. So, there were insurance measures that blocked this investment. So far, things are well known, justice is interfering. The problem, however, is in your position, Mr Minister, as the Minister for Development. Go and make statements in 2016 and 2017 on the radio of Zakynthos "Stage", where you say "When we have an investment and the investor does not comply, according to the laws, so bad for the laws. We're changing them." Is that an investment concept? Is that your strong growth paper? In fact, when you took over the government, you made statements and said, 'This case will be broken'. What exactly are you? Realtor? Diller of interest? Water owl? Is that the development model? Is that the development model you said in your statements by Erdogan? It's a bad phrase for you to talk about Erdogan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And you're saying that over there the president decides according to what goes on and changes the laws? Is that your development perception? So you serve the right of Zakynthian citizens to property? Can anyone show up? Where are you going with this? As far as I can see from what I have heard from the previous question, it is rather your 'achilles' heel in the end. I am waiting, Minister, for some clear statements as to whether you are prepared to serve legality or simply whether you want to play another role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u98	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Skourletis, you asked a two-page question. Refer to the 2015 decision on interim measures, which you mentioned just before in your protology. And I ask you directly a question: are you aware of the decision 20/2018 of the Multimember Court of First Instance of Zakynthos? Mr. Skourlet, please. Do you know her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u100	Minister, Mr. Skourletis listens to you, he's just keeping notes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u101	You have asked a two-page question, you are referring to a previous, prior time-limit, and you are hiding from your prototype and from your written question that there has been a later decision by the Multimember Court of First Instance of Zakynthos, who has finally ruled on everything you say. All the things you mention in your question about fraud, patronage, and all the rest, were judged in court before I became Minister. You were still government. In 2018, the decision came out and the Emir of Qatar's interest company won. Do you know what's left of it? A small piece for which the court ordered expertise, the piece that is a sacred temple, about a thousand acres from the eleven thousand, for which the expert decision on how long the Church will be given and how long the investor will last. However, the fact is that the Multiple Court of First Instance considered that it was all lawful, that there was no fraud and that the company PIMANA SA won. This decision has already been adopted a year before my interview. And you're accusing me of interfering with Greek justice? And can I tell you something, Mr. Skourlet? Well, you didn't know the decision. I'll accept the human error, baby, that you didn't know her. Couldn't you get a phone call to the lawyer who won the decision? You know, ladies and gentlemen, who won the decision that Mr Skourletis ignored and who defended Greek justice that the PIMANA SA company of Qatar is right and that there was no fraud and that everything was done correctly and says the opposite of what Mr Skourletis says here? Listen to his name: Spyros Sayayas! Do you know who Mr. Spyros Shayas was, Mr. Poppa? The Secretary General of SYRIZA First Government! I am sorry to hear that because you are really going to drive me crazy: you are accusing me of an interview, which I have given a year after the court ruling that justifies PIMANA SA and Qatar, because I am referring to the fact that Qatar's enthusiasm from Greek justice has been vindicated at a time when I was not a minister to be able to influence it in terms of decision, and the decision has been issued by the Secretary-General of the first SYRIZA Government? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Excuse me, can you really tell me a truth? You're accusing me of not having a proper conversation between us. One truth can tell your mouth? Mia! Mia! So, in order to close the chapter - and I shall say in my second word on the ironics of Erdogan - the decision was judged at the Multiple Court of First Instance of Zakynthos, the company PIMANA SA has lost the applicants in all of their interventions and there has been a loose end for a piece around a church. Does the applicants have the right to go second? Apparently they do. No objections. But today we are talking about the decision in force is the decision of the Multilateral Court of First Instance, which has, I repeat, justified the operation of the interests of Qatar's emir. And my role, Minister - so I take it, and that is why I asked for the vote of the Greek citizens, and that is why I believe that the Prime Minister has chosen me for this position - is to give the investors legal certainty and security that if they come to our country, they will not get into trouble and will be able to make the investment they want, as long as it is legally done. And here the court judged it to be legal. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u102	Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u103	First of all, I have here the latest statements from the mayor, Mr. Aretakis, which seems to be unconvincing with what you mentioned before. And you know why you didn't convince them? Because you refer to a decision that does not contain what you say. You say: (...). For typical reasons, he didn't do the lawsuits for private individuals, which were related to the non-reference in the mortgage room. So nothing has been won, it is under way, and what constitutes your great political responsibility is not that you interfere with justice - that you do many things in all matters, in pre-examination, you keep pointing out, everything you say, you do not respect anything, institutional perception you do not have anyway - but it is important if you serve a perception that you think the laws are 'normonic' and can, according to any unspecified investment interests, change. Is that the model of growth? Is this the model of growth that wants to bring back proposals like that of the Acheloos diversion, forty years ago? Because that's what you're doing. It's the model of growth that wants to invest despite S.H.E.'s decisions. for "ELLENIC FLOWER", and now you go to change the contract, which provided that in order to get the rights of the mines they had to prove that there is a method of metallurgy that is friendly to the environment and that fell into the S.E.Huh? I can't hear you talking about S.H.I.E.'s decisions now. What about you as a sadist? Are these your perceptions or the Waterlo in the Greek? Why haven't you given up yet? I'll start counting backwards. You have announced months ago that you will resign if the bulldozers don't enter the Greek. What's gonna happen? Is that such a sweet chair? But in any case, let's leave the jokes now. You're a dangerous government for development. Because development is not coming, but above all you are giving a signal that there is no European democracy, a rule-based civilisation, but that we are an El Dorado. Does Mount El Dorado remind you of anything? Something's obviously reminiscent of you. That's what this is about. So your strong card will be your fatal card, and that is already confirmed by what Mr Nicos Pappas said before. I'm really sorry because people got fooled. But, you know, things don't hide, the truth always shines. I put these in the Minutes for the Minister to read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u104	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u105	First of all, Mr Colleague, you are still amazing me. I intervene in justice, you say, for a decision that - I repeat - came out a year before I was a minister from a SYRIZA lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u106	What SYRIZA lawyer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u107	But I mentioned his name earlier. Don't you recognize Mr. Syrios Sayia as your general secretary for your government? Come on, Christ and Holy shit!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u108	Please don't have an interactive conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u109	When you sell books that are not of good quality, I have to blame you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u110	That is what I want it to be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u111	Why would it be deleted?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u112	By "bad quality" books you mean a man of poor quality?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Skourlet, please! He heard you drag what you dragged him without interrupting. Now let the Minister answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u114	I repeat that Mr Spyros Sayias - it is a historic event - was a general secretary of the first SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u115	Last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u116	Your answer that he was a poor man, if I understood well, after you said "bad" books, is a very racist one. Bad quality man, is that what you're saying? I will give you the opportunity to withdraw it, because it is also sue and conduct.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u117	You're lying and making impressions! Is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u118	I'd be ashamed to tell the House about this for a man.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u119	Please do not refer to people who are not in the Chamber and who are not - I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure - who are not in the Chamber and who cannot defend themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u120	I give you the right to google and interrupt me if you find my statement that I said I would resign for the Greek. Do a google. If you don't find such a statement, you're normal (...). If you find out, you're right, and I have to answer you. I give you both the time and allow the interruption. Such a statement has not been made. On the contrary, what has been done is the complete completion of all the outstandings from the point of view of the Greek State and all that is now expected, as Mr Papapas, who had made such statements, is the decision of the Board of Appeal on the application of the 'HARD ROCK'. For a period of time, Mr. Papapas appeared about as a 'HARD ROCK lawyer'. The last time I confess you're taking it calmly, we're waiting for justice to decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u121	What are you talking about? Mr President, immediately after your recollection!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u122	After you had adopted all their objections, Mr. Pappa, in public. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u123	You must give me the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u124	Doing what you don't know? Mr. Poppas is good and he's in the Chamber, but he could have gone. The topical questions are not to talk to each other after.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u125	So I would say again: when the decision is taken, Mr Skourleti, by the Independent Appeals Authority - because we do not intervene in justice. To have a representative of SYRIZA come when we have a preliminary committee, five prosecutors who have submitted for intervention by Mr Papaggioulou in their work of justice, that is, when we have heard what Mr Papayannakis will shortly be going to speak in the preliminary, on the complaints made by Mr Mionis and contracts for specific judicial decisions, which were finally adopted on your day, as the contracts called them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u126	Zakynthos' "navy" we are now talking about. Minister, I will not give any more time for an irrelevant matter! Zakynthos, we're talking about "Safei". And you challenged it. Don't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, you are right, but at Zakynthos, Mr Skourletis told us about interventions in justice. Irrespectively Savages! I'm closing up with the "Safe. " You said that the decision - it says - came out for formal reasons. I don't know if it came out for formal reasons, and it doesn't even concern me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u128	You, a year ago, made the statements. Read them, I've testified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u129	2019 is my interview, 2018 is the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Skourletis, you said that in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u131	I'm coming back. Whether this decision was made for formal or non-formal reasons will be judged in the second instance if there is. Today we are talking about this decision is true. So what you're writing in your question is all false. As to the complaint you are writing about our comparison with Erdogan, I would like to refer to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u132	What are you talking about, Erdogan?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u133	For the Mayoe, it is within the question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u134	And what's Erdogan doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u135	He's in the question, Mr. Skourlet. Well, I'll say it clearly so investors can hear it, and not you, Mr. Skourleti. ‘Yes’ is the answer. We are serving a model, and that is what we were saying in an election, which is why the Greek people voted for us, where we will be a government of pro-investment. And if investors come here, which the government needs to run and overrun the bureaucracy to help them make their investment, we will not hesitate to do so, Mr Skourletis. That's our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u136	In any case, Erdogan, you said. The question does not say 'Erdogan'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u137	With regard to ELDORADO, which you said a hundred times, I would not mention the word 'ELDORADO' in your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u138	Minister, close the door because my patience runs out!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u139	I'm closing, Mr. President. I wouldn't put it in your place. Do you know why? Why do you know the first thing "ELDORADO" says at the negotiating table? Its victory in the Council of State over your own decisions, which the Council considered to have violated their rights and their ability to raise compensation from the Greek State. So when as Minister you have charged the Greek State with the possibility of indemnification of hundreds of millions of dollars, coming to Parliament and making us smart, it goes a lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u140	With "ELDORADO"'s hat, you protested!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Femmelle, please! With the agreement of both Mr Skourlet and Mr Georgiadis - because I do not accept as President-in-Office that two colleagues of this level can say the other one (...) - the words (...) should be deleted from the Minutes. "Unaccurate", the Greek language is rich. Neither should Mr Skourletis call the Minister nor should the Minister reply. We now move on to the eighth Question No 548/25-2-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Development and Investment Mr.Georgiadis, on the subject of the "Risk of privatisation of the beach of Afantos through the counterfeiting of maps". Mr Arseni, you have the floor. At least you're mild tons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, I see that you are most reputable to the Greek FRYS, but in my question about the compensation that the State has to claim from the "ELLENICE FRYS", right after the decision of the Council of State, which gives the law to the state, when it says that metallurgy with the "flash smelting" is not valid, you refused to answer, you declared irresponsibility. You said that the Ministry of the Environment was responsible for claiming damages. Now, on the issue of Afantos here we have a case where the state chose to create golf in an anhydrous area, a huge tourist village in a saturated tourist area. But that doesn't seem to be enough for some. We have roads that disappear, streets not random, asphalt roads that lead and allow citizens to access the beaches, which is a public right. I'm going to testify in the Minutes the drawing where it is? It is in the context of the special spatial development plan for public property, which is the responsibility of your Ministry, the drawing with the roads that existed and suddenly disappeared. I have for you too, Minister. I'll give you at the end of our debate the map to read it. Interestingly, this has been denounced since 2012 by the TE Dodecanese TE and then President James Grille. As a recent publication of the Rodian newspaper notes, although seven years have passed since this complaint, maps continue to disappear new roads. Instead of improving, stopping this circumvention of reality, which, of course, serves the interests of a private investor, the maps continue and falsify reality. And I close by asking for your commitment to restore these maps and give rise to criminal responsibilities to those who have misled them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u143	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I am speaking with great respect and I really would like to see you explain what investment you like at some point not in the House, but on television, perhaps you could explain to us what investment you like. Because I hear every week asking me about the investments you don't want, but an investment you like I haven't heard yet. I imagine you, too, can understand that somewhere the world has to find work, make economic growth, get a turnover. Not everyone had your own luck in life. Others are less lucky and want to work normally not in the European Parliament or elsewhere. So I guess you care about them, too, to find a job. Please, then, with respect to tell me what investment you like once. Now we're going to Afantou, which is a fantastic investment. Our government ran away. I would remind you that the idea and the Samara Government contest continued normal procedures on the Tsipra Government, nothing has been stopped, they have been late as everything was done, and we are now in the final straight line. We've finished all the loose ends we've had and some typical papers are expected from the investor licensed by the Ministry of National Defence. And then we can move on to the transfer of the property and the start of the project. We are in this work too well, as we promised. Two topics you raise with intensity. The first is the alteration of the satellite maps, which you mentioned earlier, and whether criminal responsibilities will be sought. And the second is whether there will be citizens' access to the beach. I want to answer both specifics. And I've got the service answer from the HICP, but I want to explain it to you. Maybe you don't know that. I think you're a good-looking man. We may disagree ideologically, but I think it is good for you. As to the alteration of satellites, you said that there could be criminal responsibilities. Do you not know that in the public consultation on the SPA that had been made it was made clear that for national security reasons, because this coast is exactly across Turkey and, as you know, this investment of special licences from the Ministry of National Defence will change the maps? Do you know that it was officially written in the TBP that maps that will be published will be corrupted? What for? Because that's what the Department of National Defence asked for. So you come here to this House to seek criminal responsibilities for the alteration of maps - and you present them as a great invention - for something that was not only known, but also required for anyone following the procedure. Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? If your partners didn't tell you to lie to them. So I say to you that alteration is correct in this case, it is provided for by the legislation, it is in the TBR and it has been done for reasons of national security, as provided for in existing legislation. But I want to reply to the second one. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll close my prototype and see you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u145	No, no. Reply to be more complete the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u146	So let's go to the second one. You say if that means that citizens' access to the beach will be excluded. Mr Colleague, do you not know that from the country's constitution citizens' access to the beach is constitutionally guaranteed their right? You're saying an investment made by the Greek State, why is the Greek State doing so by violating the country's constitution? Or again, haven't you read the decision of the ECHR? Because in the ECHR, which is the part of our competence, and here you are welcome to ask us the question - I will close with "EL DORADO" - not only does public access not interfere with it, but also take care, Mr Colleague, that leads to Traganos beach, a G1 course in the plan, and from Afantou, which leads to the parking area, the G7, course is created, not only there is free access to the beach, but the investor is obliged to make an open-air parking for those who want to go to the beach and who today park their cars, as you know, on the anarchy beach. Therefore, instead of going and afflicting people, putting the car unreservedly, you have to find space to park, which often you don't find room to park, go away, bottling, pollution, noise, everything, not only does not exclude access to the beach but is even encouraged by the creation of two outdoor parking spaces and not for the investment clients, but for those who want to go to the beach to take a bath. And while you know that there is this prediction you come and ask me if we want to cut off access to the beach. Excuse me, Mr. Colleague, I respect you. Why don't you respect me? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u147	Not even, because he asked, you don't respect either. That was a substantiated answer. Mr Arsenis has the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, if you respect me, it's the way you described me as an inadmissible. I invite your partners to sit behind you and there are many of them to see the CV. Even though you've worked in jobs, I've worked like a farmer. My main profession is a farmer, a organic olive grower with an award-winning oil. Before the European Parliament I was a relatively low-paid employee also fighting for the common good in the context of environmental policy. So if you respect me, it's seen by how you describe it. However, let us go a little bit further because personal attacks are sometimes aimed at disorientation from discussing the substance. You're saying the map has been corrupted for national security reasons. The alteration of the map for reasons of national security means the well-known blurring, becomes a little more blurred. The disappearance of roads is not included in the grounds of national security. In other words, ensuring distinct points, such as roads, in the general blurring, is not incorporated. It's not something that's self-evident. Here we have something that has been denounced and which has been done gradually and has been done before the consultation. It has already been denounced since 2012 and these maps continue to lose streets. So year by year, period by season, we see that an increasing number of new roads disappear. Is that for national security? It has been denounced since 2012, as I said, by Mr Gryllis while there are reports in the local press that, I think, cares about his national security. The citizen of Rhodes cares about the safety of his place. The states are denounced here that the roads continue to disappear and do not feel unsafe from the existence of the roads. They feel insecure from their disappearance. So I want you to be clear that these roads will exist in the final plan. That--you want to say for reasons of national security? - You're bound not to leave the designer's designers' plans these roads. That these roads will remain after this investment that, yes, I disagree with this particular investment because it is in a saturated place. What investments do you say I agree? Yes, I agree with investments such as sustainable cooperatives, such as small businesses and large businesses, when there are quality products, investments that produce jobs really are the ones that employ Greek workers at 90% of them in small and medium-sized jobs. I disagree with what you are proposing, which is a service to our oligarchy which is state-run by a government that says it is against the state and yet wants a state of Dad and five entrepreneurs. We disagree with these five entrepreneurs and their investments, because they do not serve the public interest, because they bring us to new deadlocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u150	Mr Colleague, I had no wish to raise you personally. On the contrary, having luck in his life is not bad. Good work before - and I respect - as well as I am much more lucky than other fellow citizens, like you who have been in the European Parliament with a higher compensation, the one provided for by the European Parliament, and so obviously you do not have the anxiety of the poor bio-populator. That is what I said and did not say critically, I said it as a fact. You were where you were, you were chosen by George Papandreou, made you a MEP and you are better now. Good for you! But that gives you the luxury of criticising from a high point of view, that's what I told you. Let's go to this: Since you know that there is the Special Spatial Development Plan for Public Property, the ECHR. What is written in the ECHR, of course, and we commit that is exactly what will happen. Now as to the latter, for the five major investors you are opposed to. I'm not going to go into their names, you didn't mention them, and I'm not going to have this conversation, I want to stay in your question. We don't have any of the five here. Here is an investor from the United States of America, a Greek American, from Rhodes, who wants to bring his fine money from the United States without getting a euro from the Greek State, instead of paying the Greek State to get this property and make his investment. Excuse me, if your opposition is to the five state-runners, as you said, businessmen, this afflicted by the United States of America, who went poor and turned rich, why are you confronting him? Why is he bothering you? That's what I told you before. So they're neither the five stateless nor the one of America. In fact, your opposition is in all major investment because you do not care about the environment, you are interested in your ideology, the one you said before, the cooperatives, small businesses, the people of biopale. It's nice what you're saying very sweet, but you understand that it's for another economic system. In our economic system there are both large businesses and small businesses and medium-sized enterprises and all the businesses we want. Those who respect the environment - and especially today with sustainable growth - are moving towards jobs and jobs and moving forward in our economy are welcome. We do not like you ideological criteria or size criteria. We are establishing a criterion of legality, respect for the environment and sustainable development. So I say to you that this investment, which you have asked me about, at the Aphatus in Rhodes, obviously meets all these criteria. Why does he meet them? Because he goes to an area that is not, as you say, full of tourism. On the contrary, this is a huge piece of land that has been untapped for too many decades and I imagine you have gone. There's nothing else in this part of Rhodes. And there comes the public with the investor through extremely strict environmental conditions, with extremely strict environmental studies and a way of highlighting the natural environment and the natural beauty of the region and making a major tourist investment. We cannot, Mr Arsenis, disagree on all investments. Believe me, it turns out from a point and then tiring and you did it in the Greek, where you also appealed to stop the investment. It is your right to constitutional matters and I do not deny that you have this right, but it shows and what is our difference. You guys want to stop every investment. I want to help move any investment that fulfils the lawfulness. That's our difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u151	Good. Thank you, Minister. At least, in relation to your predecessors you are always present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u153	The same applies to the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, who will answer the last question today, which is the fifth with number 546/25-22020, a topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Measures to improve the conditions for the marketing of handmade roads". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in the time I have to point out to you that what Mr Georgiadis obviously means, your Chief of Environment and Lawfulness, is that we change the law in order to make it fair to what the investor wants when it destroys the environment and violates legality. Now for the craftsmen: we really have a category of people, who are bio-opportunists, are not people who compete and are not like merchants who trade products from others, we have people who drive their goods and until recently have had the special status of small-scale farmers. In 2017, under Law 4497, however, this scheme was changed to the worst and was subject to the traders’ regime, which means applying for the commencement of a trade, issuing a licence limited by municipality, issuing a marketing authorisation only to their municipality and defining only one area per municipality, where it will operate an outdoor market alongside compulsory insurance to EFKA. We must remember that these people are marginally making their living and not able to meet all these needs of taxation and insurance, and that is why I ask you to commit to reintroducing themselves to the same status as farmers special status, which is Article 6 of Presidential Decree 254/2005 and Article 41(1) of Law 2859/2000 and of Article 41 of the VAT Code without any obligation to start a profession, as well as to amend Law 4497/2017 in order to remove restrictions on permits per municipality, as well as to allow the marketing of craftsmen throughout the territory, because they are indeed people who are through a great deal of effort in many different locations who have their trademarks, otherwise they cannot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Arseni, with your question, I think you are giving us the opportunity to discuss craftsmanship, artists, street artists, and also to refer to general issues ideologically, because, following on from the debate with the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, we have to see who best protects those people you have referred to, the biopalers. Art and craftsmen, artists are indeed a very important part of Greek folk art, Greek culture and the state must protect them in the best way. He must protect them, because this is how it protects their work from people who intruse and actually steal their work and their artwork. So with this reason, the state comes to institutionalise and legislate procedures where these people are identifiable, they have rights and they have a special regime. This special scheme is indeed granted to them by Article 45 and Article 38 of Law 4497. Because your questions are specific, and I am sure that part of these questions may be answered, but perhaps you should also check the validity, I will refer to what the law says very quickly, to answer the end. So by this law, what does a craftsman have to produce? He must provide a certificate of crafts competence or if the works are art attestation of the Chamber of Visual Arts of Greece. Then the artist concerned is free to be licensed by any municipality he wishes and there is no local restriction. All these beneficiaries may engage in activities either in standing trading or in the form of an organised market. Here too, we have to say that this special regime that the law gives them does not prohibit them from being at a distance. They can therefore operate on a regulated market. They then have the right, after choosing the municipality where they were first licensed, to be licensed and in any other municipality they want and at the same time in any district they want. The licence shall also be a person clearly and may have a duration of one to twelve months. It applies to the administrative boundaries of the municipality and can ask as the craftsman has said in any municipality he wants. Most importantly, there is no restriction on permits. Therefore, as far as the part of your question refers to it is concerned, there is no restriction of authorisations. Can the craftsman, after taking his first leave, seek permission from any municipality, from any district. For the part of the VAT I tell you - and I put it in the Minutes of this House - that this is an incorporation of a Community directive concerning farmers and cannot be included in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, forty-seven students and students and two of their 1st Artemis Gymnasium (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, what I'm describing to you, I didn't find them on my own. They come from the documents that the Association of Crafts has given me. Because she has sent you her record too, I submit it in the Minutes and I am happy, if you do not have it, to send it to you too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He's pointing at all that evidence. And they're the ones asking for their reintegration into the special regime. You say that the special scheme is based on a European directive and no one else can be included in it. However, the craftsmen tell us that it is the choice of the legislator and the law of 2017 that put them under another regime and that there is no ban from European law subject to a regime similar to that of the special farmer, that is, the small producer. They don't necessarily ask to enter the special producer's regime. They're asking to enter the respective category because it's a corresponding charge. You may make a regime which concerns artisans, so you can call it yourself. In other words, you do not need to define it in the European directive. So their request is clear. To remove what you deny exists, the restriction by a municipality of the number of publications. But allow the marketing of craftsmen throughout the State. You say it exists. The artisans themselves who experience it say that they do not exist and have sent you a memo. They also demand that they be able to enter the special regime. Read the record. If you want, meet these people. Talk with them to solve the matter. They're just biosupporters. I think there are some things where we could theoretically agree. Unless that is now the case, that is to say, the service and assistance of life-supporters, it is something we cannot agree on ideologically.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u159	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. One of the key elements of ensuring the operation, if you wish, of the craftsman is, as I said earlier, to be protected from those who intruse. So what the state wants to do is protect these people from people who should not be in their category and should not be in the same place and sell their artifacts. I would like to say to you that these people, the bio-populists, as you said, who want to support - and I will tell you what we are doing next - have been exempted from VAT if they are under EUR 10,000, and I would also like you to investigate and consider that there is no restriction. So they can attempt. Clearly, when a municipality - and here we have to see and trust self-government - says that it can issue so many permits and I note that it issues licences from there and if there is more, a higher number than the number of licences, then there is a draw. We should therefore also trust self-government to judge how many positions it can give to a municipality. We cannot say that this figure will be unlimited. They therefore have unlimited opportunities to sell their products to all municipalities in the country, in all regions of the country. They may not be subject to VAT if they are less than EUR 10,000. I have to tell you that a committee has been set up in which the head is Mrs Polymerou - Kamilakis, President of the Commission of 2001 and former director of the Centre for Folklore of the Academy of Athens. You will see this committee immediately set up, as it has been signed, to promote and strengthen artwork in Greece. I think that this action is very important because it is what we want as a government, to strengthen and to give an entity much more serious and much more powerful to craftsmen, thereby supporting Greek folk art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Because I do not see all the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives here being here, I would ask the secretariats of the political groups to notify them. We're gonna break five minutes and get into the bill. The rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives will come down because they will start the proceedings and I will have made the decisions before they come down to the Chamber. So five minutes will be interrupted, and all the rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives of the parties will be brought to the fore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Political development perspective of local government bodies, regulation of matters of responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 26 February 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. I'll give you a briefing now. Eighteen colleagues had spoken in committee. We'll wait and see how many people will be registered. If a number of Members are written, because the Conference of Presidents is on the table at 13: 00, we may have to go some hours tomorrow. It will, however, depend on the number of Members registered. If he is such that we can until tonight, at 24: 00, to finish, we will finish the bill today. I think you agree unanimously. We will start with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Snowides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u165	Excuse me, Mr. Snowides. Mr President, because both the press and the rumours that exist in the corridors say that there will be an amendment on the refugee issue, we would like a position of the relevant Minister to share this amendment. That's the first. Secondly, if possible, we are calling on the Minister: to tell the legislative improvements and to tell us from the amendments which we have tabled which we have accepted and which we have not, in order to put ourselves at the outset, as well as from the articles of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u166	First of all, I was reminded by the Special Secretary and so it is: if he needs a second day, it will not be tomorrow, because tomorrow there are also topical questions and a topical question and therefore time will not be enough, but it will be Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u167	Better on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u168	The amendment you are saying has just been tabled. He's been shot to share you. If we go on Monday, I think there will be plenty of time to study and place all parties. Thirdly, when the Minister comes - unless Mr Lebanese has been empowered, but I think it is the Minister's job - for the many amendments to be tabled, Mr Spirtzi, and I would ask him to tell us what is acceptable and what is not to be pictured by the Members who will be present. So I think we can start with Mr Snowde. Mr. Secretary, will you speak immediately after the rapporteurs and the special speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u170	Good. A request from all the wings...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u171	I'm going to testify the legal stuff later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u172	Legislative work is not a problem. Any time they're filed. I would ask you to have a picture in this House, along with your statement, of the amendments which you have tabled and which you will be able to accept in order to have a full picture. I would ask that the electronic record be opened for colleagues, which will close once Mr. Spirtz has come down from the Step. Mr. Snowides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have a draft law before us, which is also a commitment from the New Democracy Government, so that the state can function properly and transparently. So in the first chapter, Articles 1 to 9 refer to the development strategy of the municipalities. Here, then, we see that the malfunctioning that exists, the obstacles that exist due to the ten-year crisis, which prevented us from having more civil servants, force us to go ahead with the creation of development agencies, which will help in particular the small municipalities, but also the larger municipalities, which are detached due to pensions and other conditions. In this sense, we consider it extremely useful to have development agencies. It is a solution, which will help very much to absorb money from the ESRB, which is currently less than 30%. What does that mean, self-evidently? It goes without saying that new jobs will not only be created for scientific potential in development organisations. The main thing and the major one is that, once these projects are advanced by money, jobs will be created in many parts of Greece, in all municipalities. In addition, there is the possibility of horizontal agreements with ASEAN OTAs and other organisations so that we can have better relevance and help the municipalities move forward. Because the lushing money is what Greek society, the Greek economy, does not need at all today. These are issues that will bring growth both in the public and private sectors. We therefore believe that it is in the right direction and that it gives a solution at the moment, because we must be reasonable and adapt to the conditions accordingly. There is the intention on the part of the Ministry and the Government that a thousand six hundred ninety-nine posts are approved to recruit permanent officials, particularly to strengthen the technical services that have been dehabilised. The second chapter of Part One relates to the provisions for the smooth operation of the TAs. That is where we have all the necessary arrangements for them to work properly. For example, a municipality when he wanted to look for a school building - just things, even in the 20th century - should have done procedures, come many buildings, search, become a competition. These things don't stand out because they don't all meet the standards of all these buildings. However, in accordance with the procedure that was in existence, they should be subjected to this suffering. Now, for example, you will be given the right to choose the building, to assess its suitability and to assess the cost of the rental. A second question - just issues every day - is that we want more kindergartens. It is our government's commitment that we should have more kindergartens. While there is money to build, there were spatial issues. It is now clearly stated that any municipal plot that has the coefficient of construction, but also meets the needs of the creation of a child-care station, can now move in this direction, i.e. be built, regardless of the urban plans in force in general or in rural areas, and can move on to this part. It is also provided here in an extremely successful programme - and these are reforms essential - in the "Help at Home" that is moving, with the compared law to make remote telemedicine, again with its staff "Help at Home", so that we can serve people in difficult, difficult areas, mountain settlements, but also in the island country that we must not forget when. The island country has much more needs and in this direction it will work very positively. In addition to this, there are today issues about the prozootic movement. It's really in the right direction many times, but there's no record for the philosophers. Each one is baptized collectively, because he says "We are 10 friends and we have a pro-zonal union". Will anyone tell me: Does it matter? Sure. There is a record of all these clubs so that there can be more serious dealings with this issue so that we have the information that they are dealing with and who really have the legitimate conditions to have this club. From there on, we will record that there will be serious policies, that there will be a major issue that concerns our everyday lives as well as animals which are equally protected from the legal framework, but also from the global organisations. In the third chapter we have the day-to-day issues and problems that are solved in relation to registration and nationality in third and fourth chapters. We close matters every day. I don't want to go at all. I imagine they were discussed in detail in the committees, not to go into them at all. But a man cannot be inconvenienced with the special registrar. Now, many responsibilities are given to the consular authorities of Greece abroad, so that this world can no longer be troubled and that they can only end up with issues that have taken several days and several months. There is also a reorientation in citizenship so that there can be a shorter decision with all the rules and regulations that exist. It is simply incomprehensible to delay legitimately applicants for citizenship four and five years and to be afflicted by these procedures. We believe it is a human issue in particular for the people who are Greeks, for example, who are from the former Soviet Union or from the regions of Northern Epirus and others, so that we can have a better tomorrow. The fifth and final chapter of the first part on issues of the Ministry of Administrative Reform concerns human resources. We are all in this Chamber in favour of transparency, a uniform way of assessing either the selection of heads, directors and directors-general, as well as the systematic treatment of mobility. Mobility first will be in a circle with the possibility of having a second cycle, but in a very specific way with committees which are made, as well as with the issue of evaluating the heads, with all transparency by specific committees, with structured interviews, to evaluate all the features. And I imagine here in the Chamber there is no one when this transparency is guaranteed, saying that it is just a good thing for formal qualifications. Standard qualifications are not enough anywhere. Now we don't count so much for all postgraduate. We honor the people who have their postgraduate and all the typical possibilities. From that point on, however, our time is the era of skills. This is important and must be understood. Only people with skills are those who will proceed in the public sector, but also more widely in the time we live, and that will be seen daily in all obligations both in the private sector and in the public sector. So we have a clear logic in how these evaluations are to be carried out. Furthermore, in the second part concerning the other provisions, there is an attempt to support the Hellenic Posts which have played a huge role over the years of the Greek state and there is a need for streamlining and at this stage help will be needed. We also have provisions of the Ministry of Digital Policy in which systematic work is being done, because this government has committed itself to looking at digitising the state so that we can have all the information to make good decisions. In this sense is the register that will be made for municipalities, not only for how many employees it has, but a general register on the basis of which you can formulate real policies. Because the state is this, in the view of our Government and the New Democracy, which formulates policies and gives freedom to self-government to apply on the basis of these strategic choices. Furthermore, the last part also concerns the Ministry of Culture and Sport where there is intelligent thought and idea recorded as a proposal for a law on how to strengthen, whether public or private bodies, with transparency, accuracy and justice, our champions and probably tomorrow's Olympics in this effort. Therefore, they are entering an account and from there on, with certain criteria, it is possible to allocate themselves to assisting their efforts and we wish them all well, because we will be all Greeks very proud. Mr President, you will allow me, even though I will only respect the rule that I am not recognizing, to move away from the rule of standing, because I have often listened to the Chamber and it is the first time that I have stood for the difficulties, but also how to deal with the major issue of dealing with refugee immigration. There is one rule today that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is doing what he needs to do. So we see a dynamic approach, when the issue is now being made a major one, and it seems clearly the Turkish provocation, the Turkish attack in fact, in an indirect way, and it seems that then you need to take stricter measures. So, from the outset, we cannot say that we will follow these tactics, but in time and by proving all over Europe now and throughout the world what provocativeness is and what the aim of the Turkish Government and its President is. At this point, I would also like to say another choice made by Mr Mitsotakis, who was strictly personal, and it seems that, apart from those of the ministers who are doing an excellent job, a lot is said and there is not much to be said because they should not be told about the contacts they have made throughout the world. I would also like to stress the choice of Ms.Mitsotakis in the face of Margaritis Schedules as Commissioner. It seems how excellent work is being done in Europe and how much Greece exploits these possibilities, with this choice of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the name of Margaritis Schonnas. They are fundamental issues and issues that are unprecedented, for which all of Europe must now have a picture. All those who have been with us in theory must be in the right place here so that they can understand the laws of Greece and the laws of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u174	Well done, Mr. Snowsides! Did you see what it means to be experienced self-government? He knows the time well. Before giving the floor to another experienced Member, I would like to make a statement. The Standing Committee on Public Administration and Justice submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Amendment of provisions of Law 2168/1993 (A'147) on issues relating to arms, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other provisions’, harmonising Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons and adopting the necessary additional measures for the implementation of European Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2403’. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the latest report by the new Republic's rapporteur on the refugee problem. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we are all here - and the Civic Opposition and the other parties - to help have a national line and help decongested our islands. That is why we will look very carefully at the amendment you are bringing and will then be put to the vote. However, I believe that, together with the amendment, you are due as a government - because you did not take part in the Internal Affairs Council yesterday - to give us a briefing on what was discussed in the Council. You have to do this because so far we have only heard words, no work, and all we have seen in all these eight months is to cancel the far-right influence announcements, which you have had in election and post-election - nothing else! - either this is about the Ministry of Migration Policy, or now it is about decongestion. We hope that all these extreme right-wing concepts that have been hosted in the New Democracy will slowly begin to plunge them down and do something essential at European level, not just walks to Evros. Let us now refer to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in plenary another draft law which contains provisions on local government, on public administration, on citizenship, on the Ministry of Culture and the Central Archaeological Council, on the Ministry of Digital Policy - Digital Governance, as you have renamed - for post offices, on satellite ground stations, on the regional press and on newspapers and, finally, on financial support for athletes. In fact, I do not need to comment on what it includes, the scope, but I would like to remind you of the announcements on the rules of good law, the strict coordination of the government and the final state. You will, however, accept that the ministers having articles of their competence have had to come for five minutes to explain to us the feasibility of the proposed provisions. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. I am talking about the provisions of the Ministry of Culture, where the Directors-General of the Ministry of Culture are abolished by the composition of the Ministry. They are two experienced, commendable for their work...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u177	He doesn't care about New Democracy when its ministers write their shoes to New Democracy MPs, but then they'll experience it even better. I say, therefore, that fundamental respect for the Members of the Com mittee - not the Opposition - does not harm. And I am talking about the provisions of the Ministry of Culture, where the General Directors of the Ministry of Archaeological Affairs are abolished by the composition of the Central Archaeological Council, two experienced and praiseworthy for their work and excellent scientific directors, Mrs Veloni and Mrs Androulidakis. I didn't know them. I met them as long as I served at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Mrs. Androulidakis, I already won her for the Bridge of Plaka, a unique play. There's never been a resurrected work before. Of course, he also participated in the restoration of the bridge of Keritis, the "Greek Kamara" to Apokoronas, etc. The two directors were unfortunate, however, to have a different and substantiated professional and scientific view from the political point of view - not the scientific view of the government. They had a different view of the ancient metro of Thessaloniki. The service of both service and scientific duty, instead of praise, is treated by the government with institutional abolition of the participation of the two general directors of the Ministry of Culture by the Central Archaeological Council. And we ask, Minister, this: Whenever a staff member disagrees with the political leadership, will there be an amendment to abolish his 'ex officio' participation in the relevant committees? That's terrible! I mention this at the outset, because it is an extreme example of what the government means by the terms of 'worthiness', 'final state', 'honesty', 'independent public administration' and what the honour the relevant Minister is looking after to all of us and to the officials of its Ministry. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you should ask for explanations. And since I mentioned it, with the actions of the Government of New Democracy, unfortunately, the metro of Thessaloniki will not be completed for the next five years, and it should already have started testing at the end of the year to give the citizens, except for the Venizelos station. But let us look at the main part of the draft law on local government and public administration. Minister, I would like to say that we had a substantial parliamentary procedure in committee, although there were twenty-nine articles in the consultation and in the draft law ninety-four. I believe that you recognise our willingness to find convergences that will support both public administration and local government. It is obvious, however, that a legislation is being invalidated, a substantial reform that we have made in broad consultation and in difficult conditions within the memoranda concerning the objective of an independent, custodial, effective and operational public administration, both through the administrative reform of 2016-2018, as well as by updating it in 2017 and 2019, the establishment of the National Executive Register, the reform of evaluation systems, targeting and selection of heads, the digital organisational programme of public services, the single mobility system and so many others. Obviously, we have exceeded the policy of the then Minister and current Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, based on evaluation and redundancies. Your own legislation, however, then with the so-called state of service, which you were ready - you said - to govern, today, has brought all the services to a dead end. Tens of amendments are needed. Every week, we are voting on a few so that public administration can operate satisfactorily. We come to today's draft law. During your friendly tactics you are lifting a key flag and leading us back to a party state, to a client state in public administration. You scandalize the pre-service at the expense of merital formalities, such as postgraduate ones. In fact, I would like to insist that you accept the amendments we have tabled to you. In the name of which excellence you do this, since you know that most of the places had been assigned, not by evaluation. At least, if you want, premium the service, where the people who serve there have been evaluated in the distortions that existed in the past. You're reducing the rating factors and increasing the gravity of the interview. For what? We see that you connect the digital organization chart to the annual programming of recruitments, the recruitments that SYRIZA managed to do with rule one by one, when you blamed us for that and for the election of a small state, for rule one by five and all the rest. At some point you have to tell us what annual recruitment planning is and what the long-term one is. We all need to know where we are. I'd like to say something that hurts me, because I'm also a diplomat. It was a fair request from the technical world at all times. Why don't you mobilize the five-year studies, not only for diplomat engineers, but also for the other scientists who have five years of study and recognized their diploma as masters with the masters abroad, with the same molecules? Why do you give another slap to higher education to public, Greek after college? For what? Of course, you have not accepted - and we are asking, it is to our own authorities that there should be specific selection bodies for officials. I am talking about Article 45(1). The selection bodies for mobility applications should have an institutional participation in these committees and should not be designated by the Minister concerned. For what? I would like to stress for local government that for us local government is the cell, the core of our democracy. Independent, effective, transparent and operational public administration is an essential prerequisite for the depth of our democracy, for the quality upgrade of our lives, for fairness, for equality and for the development you call for. These principles have led us not to a opposition tactic of criticism in the original draft law, although we have - and we have - vertical disagreements in its general direction, but to a substantial task, to meet the real needs of the municipalities and local communities and regions. We have proved that we don't care about the color of the self-government rulers at SYRIZA. We've proved it as government. We are also proving this today to be a Dedicated Opposition. That is why we have tabled - it is not customary - forty-four amendments to eighteen articles of the draft law, and in this way we want to contribute to effectively addressing the existing problems of local government. The Minister for the Interior - and I must acknowledge this - accepted a significant number of amendments that we proposed and a significant number of forecasts, which also demonstrates the good climate, that we have a common goal of finding common places to solve and deal with the problems of local government, but also of the validity of our positions on the incompatibilitys that existed in the draft law with European law, with the case law that exists, but also with the objectives and responsibilities of local government. I think it is very positive that the amendments that we tabled, in particular, for the specific services of the trans-European technical projects for the integration of development agencies into the 'DENMARK', the respect of forecasts that ensure transparency and good procedures, for the KIM and the EASC, for the monitoring of the IASC in the recruitment of a fixed term are very important issues that have changed in relation to the original draft law. However, I would like to repeat - and I have said this at second reading in committee - some issues that are fundamental to us, and we will also bring them back to plenary, so that the Minister can rethink them and accept the amendments we have tabled. For example, we are talking about the most basic of them. In Article 3, paragraph 5(b), we disagree with the possibility of exercising decisive competences by staff with a fixed-term private employment relationship. This will create very serious legal consequences, even raising issues of unconstitutionality. You know that. People who are a certain time cannot be held responsible. If any of them do anything outside the law, what responsibility will it have in eight months? There is another issue, Minister. These people of fixed time have no incompatibilities like public officials. Can one of them help out a technical service or make a tender and sign his outcome and at night work at the study office or at the technical company that has undertaken a project? These things can't be done. Secondly, Article 4 provides in the draft law for the establishment of technical competence of a service by its supervisor. Here, too, we'll have issues. And here we're going to get something done and everything's blown up in the air. It is not even foreseen that technical services have uniform rules for technical competence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two more minutes. They must even have the standards they have in their hands. Is it possible for the Greek State to say to a study company: "To undertake a study of this budget, or to say to a construction company: "... a project of this budget, should you have these engineers who are in the register with this experience, these machines, this logistics infrastructure, this economic adequacy" and that the public service or whatever service will supervise it - in your own private thinking - and not have either the competence of the scholar or the contractor? In fact, is this according to what the head of the same department should be doing if he has technical competence? Any appeal will fall. We'll trap all the municipalities again so nothing can be done. In Article 5, we have proposed that the ministerial decision provided for in Article 44(1) of L.4412 be adopted. In Article 5, the substitution of the head of the technical service, as well as the construction service from our mayor goes far behind. Critical studies of public health and safety cannot be treated as a simple administration. The mayor can't sign. The agency must sign. In Article 12(1), which is a key issue of democracy, the possibility of local referendums is suspended during the current municipal and regional period. Why for this current period? We're asking if there's any feasibility. This is a key cell of our democracy in societies to be able to see a municipality or a regional referendum. Thought you hadn't earned so many regions and so many municipalities what you would have done. It's terrible. Paragraph 7 of Article 12 requires the assent of the mayor concerned in order to implement the decisions of the municipal council. Is it possible that thing won't fall? So, because there are some mayors who can't convince their city council and make a opposite decision, do we predict that the municipal council's decision is undone if he doesn't have the consent of the mayor? Cancel the municipal councils, too. Have one-sided municipal councils be the mayors. The provisions of Article 12(9) are also problematic and relate to subjecting the provisions of the integrated recycling centres and the multi-centre recycling centres which are not clearly defined conditions. They create ambiguities, malfunctions in their implementation, and there are also suspicions of selective favor. Please see these points at least. Minister, we have really tried to contribute. You tried, too. But within the draft law, in addition to what I mentioned yesterday and at the meeting we had with the points we said to improve, we could, if anything, be able to accept it if we were to accept a draft law on local government. But with what's inside the draft law...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Comrade, you've reached sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u179	I'm hanging up. We would not be able to vote positively on the principle when we continue and there are the unacceptable provisions on citizenship that give a right-wing political signal, even in cases of people with mental disabilities, stateless Roma and special groups. With the amendment you have tabled, the Government has now come to extend the period for the submission of a request for naturalisation of those who are entitled to international protection. What for? People will make a request. Why are you reducing time and not leaving him as it is? Unfortunately, under the responsibility of the government and the maladministration which the government does not respect its announcements, a great opportunity of consensus has been lost on serious issues relating to the functioning of the government's administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u180	I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the list of speakers is closed. Ms. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, these days the country became a shocking picture, a large picture with many smaller instruments. Flying images, haunting images. The picture was made with the young child, a police officer on the border, who, in one hand, held the cell phone and played on the other hand, the weapon became in my eyes Janus, two faces at the same time and contradictory, the smoothness of a peaceful daily life of Facebook and Instagram, which suddenly evolved into the forefront with the background of the prison and caption: "It is now happening." It became the picture of the burning fires and eyes red from the night of people ahead and behind the wires, people with hope, but without. The image of the locals, but also the others, the most distant to rise up and declare ready to defend the country and the sovereign rights. Tobaccos and chemicals, empty boxes, after they vomited all their empires, were now useless in a ditch with questioning paternity. It became the grandmother of martial Greece with pies and sweets to go to the modern front to feed "The children of Greece, children" and the refugee on the other hand trying to melt a biscuit into the mouth to feed the baby who drinks only milk. It became the picture of the boat holes in the Aegean Sea that I saw and closed my eyes, not to reach my glance at the bottom, and I see a child's body so unjustly left, but also the image of the islanders who have now endured and waited and demanded their island back and their lives. The picture of Europeans visiting Evros, expressing support and then leaving as they came. And yesterday's picture, Mr Ministers, with the diplomatic battle in the Council of the European Union, the strong objections made by Germany and other countries to include in the final text positive wording on Turkey's role in the management of immigration. The picture finally with Athens to extract only one wording during the long meeting and we have hope and wait. At the same time, however, the caravans of refugees and immigrants are moving on to the country. There are shocking complaints that they are moving with the gun to the front from the military and paramilitary state of Turkey. The Mediterranean in a tower and the Balkans in a fire. The leaderships in diplomatic fever and peoples again in a new historical adventure are supposed to be in the century of the acquired, valued and solidarity. Where is Europe of solidarity and peoples? Can't he see the picture? Don't you smell the bartender? Is that enough assurances and promises for aid? Is it enough for the financial communications after last night that balances the injustice and clears up immorality? Is the aid in two instalments of a consideration that looks like the price paid to ease the guilt of the actual absence? The government must take on, Mr Ministers, initiatives which are dynamic and effective, to suffocate now. We have real unprecedented conditions, but also moral excellence. I will never get tired of saying, and especially from this step forward, that Europe has a responsibility towards Greece, a country that has now sat on the stool and served its sentence once it has suffered the pandemics, established the shirt and bleeded the body to get the cart out of the mud, a country which has been tested and, indeed, in a test tube of all kinds of memoranda, measures and restrictions. They therefore have a duty for our partners to take responsibility for the country, for the real, historical, on the refugee question. It's not enough. At the same time within the country, the new structures in Serres and Attica announced, trembling and not speaking, and the uninhabited islands have received the first titles of newspapers. We are awaiting the government's roadmap and its national plan. We have been waiting for the Council of Political Leaders to request the Change Movement for months. We expect effective initiatives. And of course we do not agree with those who are trying to make a political fund at this time. This is not the time. It takes peace and political silence. But, ladies and gentlemen, political silence is necessary for another reason. Because the snake has to hear it stirring into its shell, ready to dig again and appear, starting a new historic nightmare for the country. So in this context today our debate must give a message at all levels of Europe and of the partners. And from you, Minister, I expect to hear about the outcome of your ministry's partnership yesterday at the European Union's Internal and Justice Council, which, unfortunately, seems to be bringing us very little. In this picture, ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged by reason of the parliamentary agenda, while the country is at a different pace, to discuss a multi-branded plan, which is of course entitled to a captive and commercial title, a bill on strategic development and the progressive direction of local government, public administration, citizenship and executives, and even culture and sport. It's a bill without backbone, without beginning, middle and end, without a clear stigma, half, and unstoppable I would describe it. And that, of course, you know many times too, deprives us of the opportunity and we ourselves to unfold our visionary word and goal and to help your government rule as we believe we should contribute. We have also seen some fragmentary and point-blocking positions, and unfortunately we have also seen them in the committees. A little bit of everything, Minister. A little sorted out, a little contradicts with other earlier legislations, it will certainly also contradict with future, of course, a little commonly making acceptable ruffles and ruffles here and there, a little hidden under the carpet. They will, however, reappear, I assure you. I'm twenty-five years in self-government, and I know that when you put that trash under the carpet, it's the first thing that's going to surface. In front of you, you'll find it. We told you, but you didn't hear us. But the brief joke is also confirmed: Organized as a Greek. So that confirms the interior ministry with what you brought us. You have not consulted, you have made it give birth to so many other and many other provisions. You brought twenty-nine, and at the end of ninety-four, you brought us to us last night at 12 o'clock in the middle of sixteen articles - amendments, and now you have shared us more. And you're talking about good law-abiding? You can't tell us that. And we have asked you from the outset, with a straight look and words, not to do so in the legislature, because we in the PASOK were the ones who first set the principles of good legislature in Parliament. So you too, with roots and space, must come here and respect the acquired assets, at least, which we think many people must respect in this House, from any point of view. Now, not to say about the three days consultation, not to say what you think is trivial, but we consider it very important. So what we want to say is that we do not have a comprehensive plan for self-government once again. I'm watching your interviews. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why do you say 'go again', ladies and gentlemen? Is it complete? Is it complete to talk about self-government development agencies without telling us what they will develop? Where are you going with this? In simple words. I don't even want to read what I thought and wrote. I want to ask you where you're taking her to self-government. Do you want to keep decentralised, do you want to separate the institution to a first and second degree and with what responsibilities and with? You give technical assistance and support. Who Otta To? You're directing them to do what? Development planning which one of them will do? You are separating the unified development planning of a region, which now seems too small to the borders that have opened up, the Europe that has raised the world that is different. What's your vision? What are you calling us to believe? What in the world are you talking about? So it is a reformist magnificence that you are giving us. It contains measures that we do not say are necessary and useful - to avoid misunderstanding - but they are fragmentary. The mayors are coming, they're submitting your requests. You're the good Minister, and you're accepting them. But that's enough? And, in any case, because, Minister, I personally appreciate you and I think that you have a visionary objective, you cannot want to leave your mark at the Ministry and your print only with arrangements to the mayors or with technical help to the municipalities. So at this level, I think we should come to an agreement. You are bringing development agencies without telling us what you are doing with development companies. You're a little smiling, a little talk, a little silence, a little quiet, a little keep it down. You say, "Those who want to keep them." Is that institutional concession? Is it a concession or is it a mixture, a fermentation, a mixture, everything in the system and everything that survives? What start of breath are you giving? What motive and institutional counterweight to the development agency so that a municipality does not make its development company, so as to abolish it, to move forward with the development agency? You're recruiting a whole army of consultants looking for a party parakeet next to the main store. Why are you doing this? In self-government, at least, in our real home, where we find the whole principle of alphabet? False once again the concept of dignity and equal opportunities. It is a new institutional hypocrisy to say that you are helping the municipalities. You're not helping them. Immediately, it is necessary to speed up the procedures, in accordance with the internal organisational plans in each municipality, to pay with permanent staff the positions of responsibility. There can be no developmental planning in municipalities, namely the design of a self-government body, with officials for months or with specialist consultants, as you have said. You have given them many names, you have baptized them and, anyway, you have made them more artistic, you have made them permanent, semi-permanent, and others, various regimes, depending on the term of each mayor and every hereditary. We don't accept that! We don't accept that! In 2020 we do not accept that. The party next to the store. And I keep going. It's okay. Live dialogue is democracy. After all, we have the moral stature here because for the self-government that we have been discussing. You were leaving when we voted for heresy self-government. So separate our good morning. We're equal, but we're not the same. Let's go to Article 2 on technical assistance, where I want to make a comment. Derogation windows, contracts that clearly close the eye to private individuals by means of photographic devices. Only a few provisions of public procurement legislation - expressly referred to in the article - are applied. Local government data register, Article 7. You didn't tell us his usefulness. DENMARK has a specific purpose, fulfils a specific process and has a specific target and effectiveness. What do you add? The control we are told by the self-government themselves - and I have experienced it in my self-government term - that it is more important at the moment in the Ministry and that the evidence is taken by the Ministry first, rather than by the municipalities, despite the municipal councils. So, is it possible to create a record? Unless I suspect - and I do not want - that you put an institution next to the institution in order to say that you can now delay posting the institution "DENMARK". Because he says he'll put it there first, he'll record it in the register, so delay it at the "GENERAL". Slowly, then, you despise the institution in order to eliminate it as well. Why? Because you have a problem with regard to democratic institutions, created by other institutions, innovative and innovative. Soon I hope we don't see the JEPs coming to do the same job and just change the name. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, eight of the Vice-Presidents from six. Why? One of you protesting here, mostly. I heard some voices there. Do you know? Did anyone tell you why eight anti-regions from six? I do. Do you know what the Vice-Presidents are doing today and what the Vice-Presidents really do about it? What are they serving? EUR 1.4 million. Do you give them from your pocket? From the pocket ours and from the pocket of the Greek people. So why are we giving this money? Do they serve what purpose? In what development framework? What are they serving? And the district manager - here is the tamperiere - is one of all classes, oper means a political transaction straight, clean, without any guilt and remorse. As far as the public sector is concerned, I would like to say, Minister, that we have seen them very carefully, and we have also discussed them in committee. What we are saying - and we have said to you, and unfortunately there has been no move in this direction - is that derogations in the procedures do not benefit anyone. What we need to do at the moment together and to help with reluctance in this direction is to set up a real system that is fair and worthwhile, does not create damages and delays in the agencies, so an AACC fulfils the modern criteria with all the clarifications it needs and with all the legal arrangements it needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Instead, unfortunately, you have two-speed civil servants again, you are strengthening a client state of directors, heads, divisions of directors, according to their will, and of course you close them and the eye says: "Look, well done we have everything and we will be here again". So we cannot consent to these kinds of procedures, as in all your articles that you describe with the 'derogation'. Where, therefore, you say ‘by way of derogation’, we cannot accept it, even when you say ‘by way of derogation we rent rooms’ or ‘by way of derogation we rent buildings directly on the road without auction’. Why? Why don't you bring in a law - since it's not effective - and tell us that this is the law with which you can without 'without' renting or renting buildings for three whole years? Why do you do this if you have just the law? We, ladies and gentlemen, the public administration, precisely because we have envisioned it with the law of Peponies, with the AACC, are institutions that we must preserve as the daughter of an eye, because of our traditional consciousness and because of our democratic conscience, because of the amount of time we have in the country. The public after ten years of crisis presents basic shortcomings in qualified personnel. What we have said all these days that we have all consulted has been the common denominator of all the people who serve the administration - I am sure, Minister, they say the same to you - that we want a fair system that will finally put things in order and will not be afraid of the chief - imagine where we have arrived! - to assign tasks to the existing person, because the existing system fears that he will eat his post. Does the institution ever work like this? Does democracy ever work like this? So we must be very careful in the system of selecting heads and directors and not see it as a temporary action in the public system. Only in this way do we create career executives who care about the administrative function and not the ordering stars that roam from position and position only for the allowance of responsibility. This time has passed. I think we are in a completely different phase. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that if we continue this road to self-government - and I say it with pain of soul, Minister, because although I am a Member, I still think I am self-government - if we continue to legislate in this way, we will not go anywhere. We cannot continue without having a development plan for the LAGs, where we are taking the country through local authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u182	My colleague, you've reached eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u183	I'm closing, Mr. President. You told us that in a few months' time, Minister, you will bring in a bill which will fully clarify your responsibilities and give your mark. Then I answer to you that you shouldn't have brought this. You shouldn't have brought that or you should have brought the other one first and then that. To conclude, therefore, and so that we do not get too much accountability, I will present you with a memorandum from the Greek network of local action groups 'LEADER' whose requests you know why they were submitted to the committee. I call on you to accept a legislative amendment to Article 15 for plots that come from a concession for use in the municipality by another public body, as well as for their regulatorial project. These are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending up and living in self-government, I really am never tired of saying that it is our home. Command is housekeepers. Both are valuable and important. But you can't attempt to renovate the house without a complete plan. It's like you're saying, "I'm renovating and I'm going to the old beads to get new." Do you know what'll happen to you? You won't be able to open either of the old or the new ones. And so, you won't refresh the room with air clean, fresh and new oxygen. In that sense, therefore, we cannot agree, Minister. Your new bill hopes to carry more oxygen. However, the old one, what we are discussing, under no circumstances has any visionary objective. That is why we cannot agree in principle with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Before I give you the floor, I would like to inform the House that the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, has asked for the floor immediately after the end of the special speakers. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law introduces a number of regulatory provisions mainly concerning TAs, issues of their well-functioning operation, citizenship, modernization of registration laws and public administration with human resources regulations. These are necessary arrangements for the urban state to move to the next stage of the reactionary modernisation of the European Union and the big capital. Firstly, with the Development Planning Committee, which replaces a respective committee set up by the SYRIZA Government, it is seeks to link more organicly any planning to the municipalities with the hierarchies and pursuits of profitability, business groups, such as waste management, renewable energy, transport, tourism, thermal resources, change in land use that facilitates entrepreneurship and much more, but also with the CEN's request that the municipalities manage 20% of the next ESDP programming period, for example, which the government does not reject, to the extent that it is linked to the overall development and investment objectives of capital in our country. Secondly, in the context of this planning, the Government seeks to support business activity in the local administration by forming new flexible management tools. LAG development agencies are being established, public limited companies, which are even forbidden by equivalent local authorities who can exercise responsibilities and provide services to citizens. They will operate on private economic criteria, i.e. engage in business. In this way, the privatization of competences and services is further promoted, and the services of the TAs are downgraded by removing workers' rights and conquests. These are companies that will distribute money away from public accountancy and elementary transparency and go beyond existing services. Of course, this form is not new. Consequently, neither innovative. It's old and it's failed. Proof of the failure of many developing countries to date by dismantling the money of the Greek people. They are reused the well-known corrupt materials they have loaded the people with debts. A flexible procurement mechanism shall be promoted, which shall neither question the design and priorities set out nor the procedures, reliability and effectiveness of technical projects. In other words, all roads to business are being opened through the partnerships of all kinds of local authorities, which in turn can enter programmatic contracts with the public, chambers, banks, cooperatives, employers' organisations, universities and go by saying. They will undertake to conclude, supervise and supervise public studies and projects by OTAs and technical administrative support for issues relating to technical and building services, in order to run business projects more quickly. At the same time, OTA technical services will continue to be disorganised, without equipment and support, technicians without work rights and permanent work, with the cost of studies and projects going upwards. The management of these organisations will be carried out by regular and temporary staff instead of the recruitment of permanent staff, equipment and support for the services of the ATTs directly required. You are making special recruitments to development agencies with completely opaque procedures, which, although anonymous companies, will manage public affairs. Despite the huge disasters we have every year in infrastructure, despite the numerous arbitrariness that comes to light, despite the enormous subtleness and complexity of responsibilities, you continue to treat OTA technical services as a repository of liability with criminal and civil responsibilities to be charged to officials. You think it is right that the citizen who is damaged by road damage should not turn against the regional authority, but against the official. You also use in this draft law the term 'technical adequacy of technical service', without having made the intended joint ministerial decision, setting the minimum number, specialty and so on. You convert the mayor, except for the master, and to an engineer, who will have the right to sign building permits and specialised administrative operations, which, when he wishes to consider his technical service as inadequate, will conclude a programme contract with the EBRD, the development agencies or the EBRD, and when he will be able to consider it sufficient and he will be able to load as much as he wants the employees. We are therefore categorically opposed to the privatization of the responsibilities of technical services and their operation on the basis of private economic criteria, with the logic of cost-benefit. The design of technical works, the hierarchy, the preparation of studies, the execution and supervision only if carried out through a central design and body can put people's needs in infrastructure, schools, hospitals, children's stations and go by saying. Thirdly, a register of local government data is set up to develop effective and enhanced local development policies, as it says, with automated platforms, bringing together the image of the economic situation of local government agencies. It is another tool in the hands of the central authority, so that better positions can implement its policy. The aim is to attract investors and different local government funding, attraction as the Prime Minister, and international financial institutions, which deal with self-government everywhere in the world, regions, large municipalities with increased interest, as the Prime Minister said. This is all new, flexible management tools in the hands of the central authority, and in this respect we are vertically opposed. While the EBRD funds have been reduced by over 80% in 2009-2020, with infrastructures in sport and culture to collapse from the lack of maintenance due to a lack of resources and staff, the Government is allowing municipalities, given their inability to run an already poor technical project, to transfer 50% of EBRD to operational expenditure in the last quarter of the year. This situation is being exploited by the government and local authorities to give private operators, as is being done in sports centres, for example. The last free spaces are delivered to private interests. Rarely, spaces are expropriated to be attributed to the people, again because of a lack of resources. The maintenance of school buildings is incomplete or unexistent. The PPPs, the public-private partnerships, go ahead. The road network of the municipalities remains unconscious and dangerous. They lack planned and extensive interventions of earthquake shielding, anti-military, anti-nuclear protection, social health and welfare infrastructures, problems that come in and come tragically every time in the news. The development programme part, the NSRF 2014-2020, concerns projects and actions that are fully prioritised in the needs of strengthening the competitiveness of capital, ranging from popular needs to services, infrastructure and projects. Nevertheless, the new ESDP is projected by the government as the only financial source for investment in local administration. Capitalist growth, for which the local regional administration is called upon to play a leading role, passes through suffocating and continuous underfunding, returnability, leading people's households to put their hand in the pocket deeper and more deeply, increasing taxes and fees, abolishing or delivering social services to individuals, plundering labour rights, wages and pensions and flexible labour relations. The case of Article 18 for the home prevention programme undertaken by the ‘Help at home’ is characteristic. The funding criterion is to strengthen the competitiveness of the local economy as stated in SYRIZA Law 4509/2017. Thus, the preventive medicine programme is downgraded and limited to some laboratory tests for part of the inhabitants of the barren and inappropriate areas, which are generally susceptible, and that is also provided that there will be appropriate health personnel to perform the haemorrhage at the house of the "prosperity". This regulation is not merely inadequate, but it reaches the limits of the risk, a programme which is assigned as a parallel task to its already declining staff 'Help at home', which will be called upon to implement it. Of course there is not even provision for recruitment in order to meet the great, huge needs for the development, staffing and equipment of public health centres, with regional medical and mobile units and to meet free of charge all the needs of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, as part of primary health care, according to the particular needs of the elderly, children, women, people with special needs, and so on. Nor are we talking about including all this staff in the 'Help at home' in public units, in health centres, in other words. This draft law amends, suspends or adds provisions to the ‘CLEAR’ and ‘CLEARED’. Any falsifications in municipal orders for secretarial support, which have so far been defined, depended on whether the service needs allow it. The right to reintroduce a topic for discussion on the municipal council may arise only if new evidence is provided to base it, otherwise it is rejected as a matter by the President of the municipal council. It goes beyond what is relevant to projects, studies, conditions and committees that control them, further downgrading the role of the municipal council. It inhibits the 'CLISTEN' arrangements on local referendums for the whole period in fear of blocking business projects, concerning public land, wind turbines, business investments in fillet areas. It goes beyond the powers to approve the pricing policy of JHA and the end of 80% for sewerage and water works by the municipal council on the economic committee, again dominated by the mayor. It stipulates that the municipal council to decide on the establishment, solution or merger of a legal person of the municipality should have the agreement of the mayor concerned, transforming the mayor from an executive body into a decisive decision. The Government of New Democrat Republic, with its guide to rulership, is literally levelling it all, with the mayor becoming the main and main principle of everything. This is bourgeois democracy in all its majesty. In Chapter IV, for the acquisition of Greek nationality, these provisions make it difficult for Greek citizens to acquire nationality from the former Soviet Union. It even imposes them the payment of an offence on this particular charge. It also abolishes the possibility of the article of L.4604/2019, which allowed Greek citizenship to be acquired in minor disabled children, i.e. the second generation of immigrants, born or raised in Greece, but with a disability of more than 80%, they were unable to attend a Greek school, as required for the other children. The Government submits that the services which certify the above do not have permanent and stable educational staff and refers disabled children to special education schools or to the common provisions applicable to the acquisition of citizenship by other healthy children. It also abolishes the introduction of a special procedure for the acquisition of Greek citizenship to stateless Roma with a long historical presence in Greece, on the ground that they do not specify the evidence on the basis of which the non-nationality can be established, as well as the long-term stay. Of course, the government could have brought in a regulation specialising these elements and these criteria would have facilitated the acquisition of Greek citizenship by Roma, who are indeed entitled to it, since the problem of many Roma who are not registered in the polls is well known and do not have citizenship. In relation to the provisions on public administration and its staff, in our view, they are highly reactionary. The linking of mobility to evaluation is not intended to make workers better or to upgrade social services. Instead of covering the tens of thousands of organic loopholes with the recruitment of permanent staff, the government is trying to deal with the problem of subsistence of the services by recycled the same little staff, and that is what you call mobility. There are huge restrictions on the mobility of officials of the TAs and punishment procedures are introduced in cases where the switchover process is incomplete or has not been completed by 15 May. At the same time, it is laid down that for the assessment of the applicants for transfer, account is taken of the relevance of the formal and substantive qualifications, that is to say, a review of the relevance of their postgraduate degrees is needed, that is to say, of the principle of examination by the Board of Directors. For the selection of heads of law, the bill goes further than the reactionary law of the Vernardakis Law evaluation and adds a reinforced role to the evaluation that must have ninety to one percent in the evaluation reports for directors and directors and seventy-five to one in the evaluation reports for heads. It is also trying to narrow the range of graduates from the School of Public Administration. Modify the modulation of criteria in the selection of positions of responsibility in different qualifications, seminars, etc., and in particular in data on the basis of which the selection of positions of responsibility is foreseen. It increases the molecules of interviewing and exercising tasks in positions of responsibility and reduces formal qualifications, work experience and pre-service. Article 76 concerning workers appointed by 3K in 2018 increases the years of compulsory stay to the institution appointed from two years in force at the present time in seven years. Cleaning workers once again receive the depreciation of the government which creates many speed workers. We call for this article to be withdrawn, not to be made redundant of those who have already sworn, to be allowed the workers who, with the first definitive lists, were recruited in one municipality and the new definitive lists were found in another, to choose which municipality they would work. Any vacant posts in municipalities covered by the 3K notice. With regard to the provisions relating to the General Secretariat of Communications and Information and, in particular, to Article 88 on financial support for newspaper publishers, we do not agree with the support of newspaper enterprises, not because we disagree with the support of the press, particularly of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially regional and local press, which have been smashed by all governments in recent years with the policy and measures taken, but because, as has been said, even with this article, very large companies, which have newspapers, large publishers who owe workers and insurance funds, and even while you are placing ethically on the basis of this article of the law, do not fulfil their obligations towards workers. We understand that a number of issues will be specific to ministerial decisions, but this article gives the signal where ministerial decisions will be initiated. In this respect we disagree. Finally, Mr President, let me conclude with regard to the amendment tabled for refugees and immigrants: the least we could say is that this is a barbaric, inhumane and punishing regime which is already in place. You are now applying it in duplicate, plus as some would have said. These people joined a project, in the ESTIA Programme with funding from the High Commissioner for a semester giving them food, housing. With this specific amendment, six months are over. We here also disagreed with the case of the semester because within a six-month period what could a refugee, an immigrant? Learn the language? To follow the association procedures with relatives? Have medical care and kids go to school? What could happen in a semester? Now you're doing it worse, that is, in a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Colleague, you've been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is an unacceptable provision and there is one question: How many are there left in houses or in hotels and has passed six months, which means they are homeless and have no food? It's a question. What about all this world? So what does the government intend to do? Will people open the border and go to their country of destination? Because that, in our view, is asylum rather than being locked in here. Instead of denouncing the unacceptable agreements between the European Union and Turkey, Dublin I and Dublin II, you are still strengthening the measures of repression and the double trapping of these people on our islands with what we see today evolving...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u189	Finally, this amendment provides for the secondments and transfers of workers from public services by way of derogation from the legislation of the special provisions, against the will of workers, and the Civil Service Code stipulates that there must be the agreement of the workers. What are you actually doing? You are declaring public services while there are gaps everywhere, while there is intensification you get this staff, extract it and transfer it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how to operate, forty-four students and students and nine educational attendants from the municipal schools of Agios Nikolaos Korissia Kes and the 11th Municipal School of Corfu. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Konstantinos Hetas from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, I will go immediately to your bill, after all, we have said a great deal to the committees. The conditions are such that all of this is linked to local and regional authorities and municipalities, because this problem, unfortunately, has many tentacles, and it also reflects local communities and municipalities and regions. Unfortunately, things are not good at all, ladies and gentlemen. The news coming is that I would say creepy as Turkish ministers flew out a little while ago with helicopters, as you have seen, over the Evros region and actually record our own border guarding points. A little while ago we learn that the Turks are sending out a thousand police officers of special forces to pick up their own illegal immigrants and create a climate that is very bad. We have to understand, not only in this Chamber, this is perhaps just the beginning, but all Greek women and Greeks must understand that here we are going to have to protect our homeland, so we must find a common component and find this common component that we have been shouting about for a long time. And we can all agree on where we stand and where we are and what we want to do. Everything is relevant and related to the bill - and I will connect it, Mr Minister, in very short, you will see it because you have also brought an amendment to this bill, which we will develop in a little while that has to do with detention centres and recruitments - everything is about topicality, and that is why we are here and I will tell you in a little while. However, we must be clear, because there is a great deal to be said in this Chamber and in the committees, where we are, but also in the television panels and social media. We have to make it clear, Mr Ministers, that you represent the government right now, what exactly is the New Democracy trying to achieve, and what is its role, because I said it earlier in committee, and I will repeat it here, so that the Greeks and Greeks can hear it. We see the gradual transformation of the New Democracy. Do you know how the caterpillar, Minister, becomes butterfly? We see this live, we see a change and we try to figure out exactly where, because you waltz, you sit, what you want to achieve. Because it is important that you understand and do your self-criticism about what you are looking for, what you want to achieve, and once you manage to tell us what your goal is. Because you are constantly changing plans, you are constantly changing policies, you are constantly changing rabbits, and you are confusing us. And I'm explaining. And ask before the National Representation: Where are the children of ELIAMEP? In these critical moments, those who prepare and prepare and hold whole conferences from ELIAMEP, and they came out and told us that we are exaggerated and that we are conquered and that we are asking for everything in the Aegean Sea, where are they? Where are the children of ELMEP? Where is Mrs Bakoyannis, all these gentlemen, the Rosakes, etc.Huh? They left the children of ELIAMEP and the children of Greece came for a few days, for a few performances, until we can see where the ball will sit, how the scale takes us. Are we disturbing the inner core of the New Democracy, the most central one? Let's get back to the ELMEP. Are we bothering the most right? Let's get the kids back out of Greece. That's what you're doing. But that's at the expense of our country, because you don't have a plan, you don't have a plan, and you don't know where you're going to end up. That's the problem. You have been divided into camps and what I'm wondering is how much the pressure that Prime Minister Mitsotakis will withstand, because I know very well that he has a more central ideology in general and does not have that ideology that you have in place in recent days. Why did you say "no" to push back and now you say "yes" to push back. You said 'no' to the uninhabited islands - in fact, to Velopoulos and what you have not poured for the inhabited islands - and now you say 'yes' to the uninhabited islands. Mr Metatakis said so today, and Mr Petsas said so. There's nothing to do with the uninhabited islands. You said "no" to the Ministry of Immigration and re-established the Ministry of Immigration. You said 'no' to diffusion in the mainland, then you said 'yes', then you said 'no' again fearing political costs and now you say 'yes'. Nor is it bad - and Velopoulos, our President, told you yesterday - to copy. We are pleased that you have embraced the Greek Solution programme. I just want to tell you something, Minister, and here's why it's very important and serious. This package of measures of the Greek Solution proposed by Kyriakos Velopoulos six months ago, you are now applying it. It is late because the situation has evolved and you must now adopt the new package that it proposes to you. Because it's a party with suggestions, the Greek Solution, it's not just about the Opposition. So this package and the ideas it gives you, apply it now, before it is too late. Things are getting too serious. New package. Send them to Huffar. He told you yesterday. The President of Greece will assist you in this matter. Make buffer zone, the neutral zone. She told you yesterday. France and Spain did it. The man told you. Let the European Union press them for this. Don't make mistakes all the time, because unfortunately Greeks and Greece are paying for it. Also something else. Please clarify for those illegal people who enter our country and are imprisoned with four years and a high fine - because this is the decision you have made and you rightly took it - if only for the illegals of Evros or is also valid for the illegals of the islands, because in the islands we have a careless attendance every day, of course violent. Is it true for them or are they legal on the islands alone? You go and make the same mistakes, Mr. Ministers, and here reflects you at the Ministry of Interior. Now you go to Rhodopoli to put a thousand people next to a 30-foot kindergarten. You're not asking local society again. Make requisitions, react the citizens, and retreat. You sent the MATs. You said you had a check, Mr. Minister. Didn't you? But you got it back. He did not pass the project because there was a reaction from society. They went the MATs, left the MATs. Now you're going to put a thousand people in an area. We don't think you should take them somewhere. Take them, but not there. Next to a kindergarten, in the city, in the village, in the Rodopolis, in the Serres? Put them somewhere else. Also to say something about SYRIZA, because I really understand his difficult position. That's the political game. They're battles, of course, always political. Some of you earn them, and some of you lose them. At times you're on your back, ready for someone to win you in this duel. What can we do? However, no one will exploit the Greek Solution from SYRIZA. Because they slowly start doing that. Nor specula will they do in the Greek Solution, to scratch their patriotic track, which has been completely demolished in the past few months and are in a free fall, especially after yesterday's repair, resuscitation, as you wish, of Mr. Tsipras' statements, that you did so too. I know the inside core of your party is disturbed, but here you have to keep a responsible position, because the country is in danger. And when we say 'hazards', he's in danger. Here they are no longer babys to melt the biscuits and feed their babies that the rapporteur of the Change Movement said. Thousands of comets today sends Erdogan. They're flying the helicopters over Evros. Things are hard, and he needs seriousness from everyone. I'm going to the bill. I start by saying that for the Greek Solution, Minister, it is clear that the administration of the OTA means above all administration outside and above all every party interest. For us it's clear. The only interest to be interested in the TOA is this city and the municipality, nothing more. And this bill should ensure that that is exactly what it is. Unfortunately, once again your goal is to make yourself excellent to your friends, your party friends. That is our view and our conclusion. You say your draft law promises perspective and development for OTAs, modernisation and democracy in public administration, transparency and so many other nice ones. That's what you say. I am sorry about this bill because it concerns the proper functioning of Greece. This is a bill of strategy for regression of local government. It is a bill that instead of all the things you say it promotes, it promotes secrecy instead of transparency and party clientele instead of loyalty. That's what promotes the bill. We have tabled proposals. They weren't heard. Let's go down. Let's go to the ELTA. I'll stay in four or five articles. The ELTAs, ladies and gentlemen - to hear it all - are slow and you know it very well. Actually, you're watching them get late and you don't do anything to save them. And ELTA is another public piece, property, dowry of our country within a long list that you have all created, not only of the New Democracy, all those who have ruled this country in the last forty-five, forty-six years and have destroyed the public property. Is it PPC? Is it ELTA? Is it OSE? Is it called OLYMPIAKI? Now the new hot track is the ELTAs. You brought this article and tell us that the Greek people have to pay EUR 15 000 000 - so much the bill says - to save the ELTAs first. Not to save them, just to pay the people, that is, payrolls - because that provides - for money that once again bears the pocket of the Greek people. It is a tonic injection which the Greek people pay once again very expensively in problematic businesses. And you'll tell me: And what do you want us to do, gentlemen of the Greek Solution? Shouldn't we save the ELTAs? Let them be destroyed and drowned? Save the ELTAs, but sometime in this Chamber and self-criticism. Because it can't be done. Some time in this Chamber should also take responsibility and pay for all this. We've said about PPC. Let's see what happened to PPC, who was responsible for it. Let's talk about this, get everything out of the light. Let's see what happened with the ELTAs. Why is that? Why has a business that has been a monopoly for many years been sinking and on the brink of destruction? Now we're going to some other parts of the bill. With regard to the possibility of mayors, mayors and various municipal councillors, a voluntary number of services to the institution, we have also heard this, a voluntary work by the mayors and the anti-democrats. Here the world is burning, the mayors are in the bars, they don't know how they'll wake up in the morning, if they find some hot spots in their area, whether they see illegal immigrants or not, and now they'll do voluntary work. You probably think the project in the municipalities isn't that demanding. And let me say this. That you legislate by thinking only of your party interest is seen by the substantial increase of the thematic anti-regionals from six to eight. Why are you raising them? On the one hand, you say there is time for voluntary work, but at the same time, you are increasing the Vice-Presidents. I'll tell you why you're doing it. You do it for 1,400,000 euros. That is the answer to that question. And it is money that also comes from Greek taxpayers. Let's go down. You're asking us to agree on something strange. That's what I'm gonna call it. It's about referendums. I have heard what the ministers have said to me in the committee and have naturally transferred it to both our party and our leader. The Greek Solution strongly believes in the selfishness and autonomy of local government because it is the local government that expresses the popular will. That's the truth. That is why any restriction should be for certain reasons relating to issues of greater national interest. We need explanations from you, why we are doing all this. I do not need to point out how important it is for our country to define specific and strict criteria. I'm going to another matter now. I do not need to point out how important it is for our country to define specific and strict criteria to qualify as a Greek citizen. In particular, the essential condition of the adequate knowledge of the Greek language is more than necessary, which is now of course abolished. Overall, it is not about updating, but about making the relevant legislative framework much more stringent. I now come to an issue that I am very sensitive about. My closest people know about it and my wider circle. In Greek Solution we are very sensitive, like our President, who has three or four pets in his home. We are now going to take this issue, which we are all going through very quickly. It's an article of the bill. We are now talking about setting up an electronic register of pro-zootic unions and associations. I say from the outset that it's a right move, in the right direction, for registries. But, however nice it sounds, we know very well that this problem is very deep, it is very great, we face it every day in the municipalities where each one of us lives. If we do not take substantial action, we will not solve this problem with strays. There's no penalty from somewhere. You say 'Come for those who have unions to register, get a record'. The same thing you do, for example, for NGOs, etc., that whoever wants to come. And if someone doesn't come in, then doesn't he keep doing his job? Is there a penalty? Oh, no. Send, you say, an ultimatum. Mr Chrysochidis has also sent to the NGOs. We're full of ultimatums. We're really looking for them. In this particular matter, as I have said, specific strategies and targeted actions are required and not just say'register'. It's a very good start, but let's all go see it together, it's all about us. We need to see the huge problems we have with strays. Municipal shelters, sterilization programs to be carried out by these, world information campaigns, life-friendly lessons, vaccinations, feeders, waterbasins, animal abuse. It's important. Illegal rearing. There must be very strict penalties. Don't be sloppy about that stuff. These are important issues, they are issues of education. Not only announcements, then, but let's all look at this issue together, because it's very important. They owe nothing to our quadruple friends to go through panoramics because of people. In conclusion, Mr Ministers, I would like to point out that your bill is neither innovative nor innovative. It does not give solutions to many problems, it does not give solutions to the big problems. Your final state has been demolished by your client's state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u192	Thank Mr. Heta for the time. The floor will now be taken from Mera25 by Mrs Fotini Bakadima and will be followed by the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos. Mrs. Bakada, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of the Interior, which, according to the relevant ministers, will contribute to the strategic development of the Ottawa and will address time-consuming problems and phenomena. But let us see if he really will do what the government publishes by bringing it. First of all, as has been pointed out by colleagues before me, we are dealing with a bill that initially came up with twenty-nine articles and was then enriched. So we ended up having a legislation of ninety-four articles under discussion, since too many provisions were added by other ministries, such as Justice, Digital Governance, Culture and Sport, as well as Immigration and Asylum with today's amendment. But I'm going through the individual articles because it's enough. I begin with the first thing that effectively institutionalises the setting up of a local and regional Development Planning Committee, a committee which will have an incentive role. For example, he will be able to table proposals. It is something that we would see positive in the first place, even though it is still pending to see how it will finally be implemented, since it is certain that a well-designed development path for the whole country is indeed needed at last. For the body that can undertake the design, management and implementation of programmes, as provided for in Article 2, unfortunately, despite our constant questions at committee meetings, we have not received an answer. I will repeat the questions here, even today if we have some answers from the head of the Ministry of Interior. First of all, what kind of entity can he be? How will his experience be certified and how will it be finally chosen? The next article, Article 3, provides for the establishment of local government Development Bodies which take the form of private-law legal entities. They will belong to the Ottawas, but they will be able - among other things - to implement actions that will have to do with state aid and manage development programmes and other kinds of programmes. Of course, they will be managed, in the ordinary practice of the New Democracy, by a board of directors, and we will have to wait to see how they reflect the public interest, without any security in the legislation itself. We have serious doubts about this, ladies and gentlemen, but it is not the only interesting point in this article. We have the abolition of the IASC, as it is only possible to fill the posts with regard to temporary staff that the board of directors can decide. The concept of democracy and equal opportunities is once again being destroyed. We therefore have the creation of companies which have financial self-sufficiency, their own budget, and the possibility of choosing their staff, even the extraordinary one. With what criteria, what recruitment procedures and wages, we are honestly wondering. At the same time, however, we also have a violation of the Constitution and of the principle of equality in pay for the same work, as we will have staff tactics and extraordinarys, who will certainly not receive the same remuneration. In addition, the third paragraph of this article provides for the setting up of a Special Adviser's post, which will be taken out of ADP procedures without once again having clear and objective recruitment criteria. In addition, we believe that Article 102 of the Constitution is violated, as the draft law under discussion goes beyond the responsibilities of the EBRD to the development agencies. For example, while management of the public investment programme to date has been the responsibility of the regions, it will now be managed by newly established private-law legal entities. The new legal person will therefore have competence in many conflicting cases, as it will be a technical company of the TBRs, a contracting authority, an intermediate management body of national or co-financed development programmes, project manager and an accounting officer of the CCPs. At the same time, the fifth paragraph of the article provides for the secondment to these new agencies by general government bodies, covering the salaries of seconded personnel by the host institution, but without guaranteeing where the funds will come from, in order to cover these costs. The problem, of course, is the provision of Article 5, that if there is no Head of Construction, the administrative act can finally be signed by the mayor. This responsibility cannot be passed on to the mayor. How can he choose? How can he sign and what decisions should he take when it comes to purely technical parts? In addition, we continue to ask, as far as the provisions of Article 8 are concerned, for primary and secondary TAs to be entrusted to external consultants in the preparation of operational programmes. And here the questions are the same. How will these consultants be chosen? In what process? With what reward will they offer their services? Article 10 provides for the institution of the unpaid Special Adviser for the assistance of mayors and Vice-Presidents. However, voluntary work does not mean at least in our country, as it is not provided for. There is no provision in Greek legislation for this, for any kind of work without remuneration. Thus, in the case of voluntary work, it goes without saying that the provisions of the existing labour and insurance legislation are infringed, with regard to the provision of work without insurance and without payment of remuneration. Furthermore, there are serious objections and suspicions about other types of remuneration, agreements and exchanges to which the unpaid expert will expect. Article 13 provides for the days of travel outside the nominations, but there is no provision for the movement of officials who are often called upon to cover part of the costs in their pockets, especially in our days, which is almost incomprehensible. We are going through Article 17 and the parallel exercise of tasks that she also raises serious questions. The three major municipalities (Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki) are allowed to intervene in points of the city, even if they do not formally belong to them. What do we do like that? We're creating a cylon of unsolved problems. The citizen will turn to the municipality, the municipality will be delayed to respond and may never respond. A deal will come about, without the citizen knowing where to turn and what to solve the problem at the end of the day. We probably continue to rhetorically ask ourselves, however, after a decision has been taken, why this possibility is not given to all municipalities and is given only to three or if it is to be given in the future. About Article 18, which is inextricably linked to Article 70, we have the extension of the "Help at Home" programme to "Prevention at Home". Article 70 at the same time confers tasks on workers in the "Help at Home" programme, a useful but subordinated structure. To these workers without any provision to raise staff by recruitment, the legislator intends to assign other tasks which will simply be relevant to their duties already being performed, without informing the employees, without any provision being made for them to be recruited to further support such an important structure. We also find it problematic that the provision of Article 19 that the position of a special partner may be paid by a former mayor or a secondary graduate, which is sufficient to have experience or professional expertise in matters relating to local government, without any explanation of how this experience can be practically certified. We consider Article 20 to be positive and it is a good first step. It is trying to regulate even a constant problem, the one with pet hide animals, creating a register of philosophical unions and associations with a view to recording and ultimately managing the phenomenon properly. We hope it will be a first step, although it will require more serious and stronger parliamentary and government initiatives. However, we think it is a good start to put an end to such a serious problem, since unfortunately we have seen, especially in the last period, increasing abuse cases, increasing the number of stray pet animals. We have also seen cases of unions that, without operating legally, have tried to benefit from the love of friendly citizens, but also from any funds, whether municipal or Community. Equally positive are we seeing the provision of Article 22, which states that debts or omissions are being deleted, when they relate to property whose electricity has been stopped, because it can indeed be dealt with as a permanent problem facing many of our fellow citizens when a property which is not powered, either because they inherited it or otherwise, and suddenly discover that as a miracle it owes a huge sum to the municipality. We find that the provision of renting real estate by municipalities for the housing of nursery and childcare stations, as well as a primary and secondary school unit, is indeed in the right direction. However, I repeat from this step, that we would like to know by what procedure it will ensure that what will ultimately be chosen is at the lowest cost, and I would remind you that it will be done by direct choice and without auction. We are very concerned about the provisions relating to citizenship, which is why we have asked the Minister to withdraw and come to a separate bill in order to discuss appropriately, which should be applied in all the provisions of this regulation which do not concern the OTAs. We believe that the specific provisions on citizenship raise more problems than they want to solve. For example, we have with Article 42 the abolition of the provision for determining the nationality of stateless Roma who have a long historical presence in our country. We go to Rules 44, 45 and 46. As far as mobility is concerned, we consider it to be a restriction by reducing circles in the mobility of employees, while those who are seeking to transfer to a higher category are obliged to do so through the mobility system, thus effectively limiting their potential for development. At the same time, bodies that do not manage to complete the mobility process lack the possibility of requesting new recruitment. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of taking one employee from one service to simply transfer him to another. It is important that we move on to new recruitment so that the general public can also cease, but also that the narrow public sector is also under-represented. We also see that the transfer can now be made both to an empty organic position, but also to a recommended personal position. Very interesting, let me say. So instead of taking steps towards resolving the problem, at the time often anticipated contracts with private individuals, we have the state to remain subordinated, subordinated and continue to offer lower than at the level of the public, not because there is no employee training, but because we have destabilised services and outdated and incomplete equipment. In Article 47 we have the reappearance of the concept of structured interview, which we had first seen in the polynomial plan of August. We have a moleculosis, as predicted, of 25% for a Head of Division, which increases and reaches up to 40% for a head of Directorate-General, while at the same time reducing the percentage that relates to formal and objective qualifications. As long as one rises hierarchically in the chain, it is less likely that his formal and objective qualifications will be taken into account and, more importantly, how well he will be doing in an interview whose objectivity, unfortunately, cannot be ensured. We wonder how the government, by such a provision, can continue to speak of excellence, but I think we will continue to wonder rhetorically. As positive we see a number of the provisions of Article 49. For example, the introduction of compulsory leave for women once a year to do the necessary gynecological control. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. However, since we are talking about an article that puts together many cases of permits together, we will be quite sceptical about this. Positive is the provision of legal support for the public sector's human resources, as many times civil servants have found themselves accused without being blamed for their status alone. However, we would like the wording to be clearer so that there is no possibility of ultimately giving legal support. Article 76 stipulates that an employee in TAA payroll services may apply for secondment, movement or transfer after seven years, when the rest of the public is two. As positive, we judge Articles 75 and 61 with the second formality to extend the list of nominees of 8K/2017. Now, for Rule 93, just a short word before I close. We believe that it is the state that should support athletes, regardless of their performance and level. And the fact that the support of athletes is moving once again to private individuals and charity gives us great concern. The amendment, which of course is inextricably linked to the government's general policy on refugee, will allow me to put myself in my dentistry. In conclusion, given that we are dealing with a demonstrable piece of legislation which combines many different parts of other ministries and responsibilities which are in fact having problems rather than solving, with the culmination of the amendment we have just taken in our hands, as Mer25, we can only vote against the present draft law in principle, while maintaining that we will support what we consider to be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u194	Thank you. The President of Greece will now take the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos. Immediately afterwards, the Minister follows and then the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Xinoyannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, could I have the floor to make some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u196	Of course, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u197	I am sorry, Mr President, but we must put forward a series of legislative improvements so that the parties can have the time to study them. For any information you need, we are at your disposal. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Day High School of Alimos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it was August 8, 2019, not too far, when I told you that this bill you brought for the final state to the Ministry of Interior - it was a bill for the OTA - will not work. Today you come and confirm me once again that your bill was wrong. He had mistakes. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Here in politics the 'good slowly and never' is the case. You're making a mistake in New Democracy. You are working on its 'good slow, than never', because others have done nothing. It's not like that. You've got a technocrat. You have a Prime Minister who keeps talking about the reform, but only you brought a bill concerning the OTAs today, for which you yourself said that your bill was perfect, perfect, good and we all had to vote, you have a mistake. So you will tell us in your speech that you made a mistake in August and today you are doing the right thing. If you say so, I will say 'Okay, you improve or improve yourself in your political speech'. At that time, you personally talked about intersection and a comprehensive plan. Now you're talking about supplementing. That's why I'm telling you something you didn't do well. And if you do not self-criticize yourself, personally as government, I fear that you will constantly repeat the same mistakes. So let's leave your bill of August and go to the new one. In Article 12 you speak of local referendums with fictitious dilemmas, Minister. You're saying you've been suspending referendums for six months. I'll take it. But I cannot accept the excuse. Tell me why. What are you afraid of? I will tell you, for sometimes there are pretenses in sin. You have muscular thoughts in the New Democracy. Fear the cheques. Fear of imposing the government on local communities, of not going to them and making referendums, and you have a political problem in deciding whether or not you are constantly regressing, because you are ordering and then you are taking it back. You are afraid, however, that under pressure of events, we will lead to referendums. If you're afraid of our acronym Thrace, you're absolutely right because the consulate has it there. Unleash the consulate, and I'm with you, so we can finish it, we can dismantle the evil. We'll start at the consulate, not the referendums. If your fear is a kart, then you have a matter. I also focus on Article 41 of Law 3842 on citizenship. You are inhibiting the article that finds the knowledge of the Greek language. Why, Minister? I was raised in Germany - I wanted you to listen - when I was asked by the German state, my Minister, to become a German citizen - and I refused, I did not want, because I wanted to be Greek - to be asked for knowledge of history, language knowledge and examinations. This is where each one enters and you give him the right to citizenship. I disagree here, because the genus is not given. You can't give the genus. The genus is the root. It's a different matter of naturalization. But here, there's an abstract perception of the Greek language, and here's my objection. Because the Left uses the international term "nationalism" meaning "nationalism", used by extreme right, Nazis and fascists, they think it's a negative version of speech. In Greek, the word "nationalism" comes from the "national" and "national" from the word "national". "Nation" means customs, customs, traditions. That's what Babiniotis says in his dictionary and not Velopoulos. The same goes for citizenship. Because internationally the terms "Culture" and "National" cover, you, Mr. Minister, say that there will be a guy here who will speak Pakistani and be Greek, without knowing either history or language. If you New Democrat Members are covered by what you are voting on, you have a problem of conscientiousness. So I will tell you what is happening in Europe, since you are Europeans and Euroleaves and you want to govern on the basis of Community directives, the European directives. In Britain, to get citizenship and naturalise English, you must have knowledge of language, lifestyle, white penal record. Here they don't have any papers coming and we say it's Ibrahim Hussein, while it's Hussein Dad! Where is the criminal record and not a violation - listen - of the Immigration Act? The illegal man who came to Greece you legalize him from the window! In England, in Germany you must have knowledge of language, history, integration courses, not criminal records. In Switzerland, you must have 12 years of stay and interview for language and history. And there are too many laws in other countries. In Spain, the same thing happens in France. I would like to tell you something, gentlemen of the New Democracy. In 2015-2018, a hundred ninety-two thousand were enrolled in electoral rolls, “Ibrahim Hassan”. It's the Minister's answer that I'm tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're talking about a hundred and ninety-two thousand people, which means 3% of the electorate! Is the start of the electoral process not being violated, is it, or is it not? They come and we make them "fast track" Greeks, vote and cancel my vote, Giorgos, Nikos, Stavros, even Hussein - if you like - which is Muslim and is from Thrace. His vote is broken with a hundred and ninety-two thousand! And under the Samaras law that Samaras voted here, these people can also bring their families. It's an obligation for the state. One hundred and ninety - two thousand - to say to you four, for many children are giving birth - they are about seven hundred thousand! You have created, you are in the turn of a powerful Muslim minority in Greece. If you don't understand that, then you're on the full line and co-ordination, Minister, with the fight that the Prime Minister is doing against "nativism". You are against the selfishness of the Greeks, Mr. Theodorikos. You have anti-national choices. And I say it with respect to the term, because when you're an anti-institutor, you're an anti-nationalist! It's over and over! There's no other terminology. You are bringing an amendment to the effect that you are supposedly changing for refugees from three to seven years, Minister. You're not changing for stateless people. Here all those who come throw away documents, identities, passports, cell phones. How do you know the nationality of Pakistan, which states Syria, is Syrian? Where do you understand that? Where is this supposed to be here? You tell me, let me get this straight. Hussein comes and says "I am Syrian". There's no paperwork, there's nothing wrong with it. He says so. Where is it supposed to be? And you're telling us that seven years are enough? On the amendment, I would like to tell you, my Minister, that I am tired of everyone here saying the same thing. I once said how right New Democracy is for its reactions to the amendments brought by SYRIZA. But I wonder why exactly the same industry you do. You follow the same procedure, by violating every concept of the Rules of Procedure, every concept of democracy, every concept of logic, if you wish, in here every time a bill comes. Why are you bringing in amendments? For recruitment, transfers, distractions and inoculated provisions for direct assignments. Why direct assignments? You blamed them here. I remember, Mr Theodorikos, when I listened to you and Mr Georgiadis and Mr Voridis - I want you to listen to me, if you can, because I think that dialogue is constructive, but you must listen at times - and Adonis said that they were here with Kamenos directly commissioned 'hot spots'! You do the same today. You're trying to do direct assignments by law. You don't tell us how many people they are. You're talking about removing structures. I spoke to Mr. Metarakis this morning. You say you want to remove all illegal immigrants, refugees and immigrants from structures. As you wish, tell them, I don't care. Everyone baptizes what they want in here. But you don't tell us how many people are and how they will be removed. Where are they going? Will you take them to Rodopolis Serres? In a village of five hundred, six hundred people, will you go for a thousand people who don't know who they are? We don't know. It's their statement! My name is Velopoulos. I can't call myself Simopoulos or Lebanese. He comes and declares he's Ibrahim, while he's Hussein. How can you be sure and allow him to take no preventive measures, but above all to identify persons, and do you accept what the other person tells you? I don't get it. You don't have a plan. You don't have a schedule. Follow a trumped-up path with which I logically disagree. And I'm saying it right away. We told you: 'Take our own program'. You're applying it as a card. You're always stinging. I hear Mr. Pecha talking about uninhabited islands today. When I said it here, not because I am psychic or prophet, but because the politician in the final interpretation of the term has to predict. Provision must be made and not repression. So I told you, if you want to solve the problem, go to uninhabited islands so that they don't have a good time. Cutting off the NGOs, shutting them down. You haven't hung up yet. Keep them standing. To burn the benefits not to say 'we've opened and we're waiting for you'. I told you all over again. You'll do it. I'm sure of it. There's no other way. Trust me. Because thousands of them will come. We're getting hammered that we're a clear vine and thousands will come. Already waiting at the border. This is another story with Turkey that wants more attention, of course, than everyone, because it is a national issue that is happening in Evros. I have in front of me the headlines of "AGEAN" and criticized why we closed the border. And I wonder: In SYRIZA, how many lines are there? Is the line of Alexis Tsipras who went to the channel saying botanical with Mr. Polakis or the line of "AYIS"? That's what I don't understand. Let SYRIZA tell me sometime what he wants at last. You tell SYRIZA, the leftists, who some of you live in Akali, generally the Left, what the hell does he want to do for illegal immigrants. What can we do? You want to call them refugees? With the refugees. Tell us what we have to do exactly. Shall we open up as Cyia said at the border and have people cross freely? Shouldn't we run any tests on anyone? And blame those who are trying in a way - I would say - of a delusional nature to do something, even sloppy, glue. They're trying to do something. That's what you call them far-righters. Because we want to preserve our homeland, our borders, not enter the mainland of Erdogan's hybrid war? Are we far-right when we say it's a state's obligation to guard its borders? I don't get it. Then why did Mr. Tsipras go to the Navy? Tell me why he went to the army. Why did you go to ghosts? We went to guard the country's borders. Otherwise, break down the army, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and say: We are against the army. Remove the port border, the police, everyone shut up and we'll be whatever it is. That's not how it works. At some point, when we entered the Greek Parliament, I promised one thing, Minister: our presence here will be constructive. We'll have proposals. And we have tabled many proposals. And I'm going to testify to you one more, which is important to me. If SYRIZA understands that what Turkey is trying to do today is to destabilise the country - that is the reality - and if it escapes the party's logic and the logic of party rallying and realizing the whole political system, then perhaps we can prevent developments. Otherwise, we will run behind developments and deliver a much smaller Greece than the one we received. And because I am the one who believes above all in friendships between countries, but based on WIN-WIN, to say what your German friends in New Democracy have done. I've told you a thousand times that there are no friends. You, over there. You have a monopoly with Germany. The Germans, then, decided to help Greece, because we are pressing with illegal immigrants. And what did they do to us? They gave us 7,000,000 that won't make it for five, six months. Anyway, I'm leaving this. They send out - Minister, I learned this morning and I was delighted, frankly, for the first time, to say good news to Germany, which sends help - twenty policemen, a helicopter and ten bags of German beers. It's just for laughing, that's the story. And they make announcements that these gentlemen are helping us when Germany itself refuses by decision of their parliament to accept five thousand unaccompanied children. These are your friends, the Germans. As long as you do not understand that there are no friendships between states and nations, you fall into the trap of Germany's fascist, Nazi perception. Unfortunately, I'm saying that. On whether they're our friends, I'll answer you differently. They're friends of Turkey. Germany is a friend of Turkey. It has always been, for two centuries. Learn a little story. Germany has always supported Turkey. And she supported it for her own interests. Because Greece has always gone with the logic - if you like - of democracy, of the West and not of the authoritarianism of German Kaiser or Hitler or of any Nazi or fascist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u200	With Adad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u201	Adad and I were on our way. That makes sense. With France, England, Italy and other forces, anyway. I would like to say that Germany is hostile to Greece. So when I told you about uninhabited islands, a SYRIZA colleague told me: "What do you want to do? Ellis Island;’. The story with America is known. In Greece we have five Ellis Island, not one. We have Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Lero and Kos. There's a peculiarity there because that's where they rape little kids. That's where he rapes each other. They're killing. They're stabbing. Ellis Island, we did it there, unfortunately. There are, however, residents, Greeks. So take them to the uninhabited islands. If they want to be slaughtered by each other, let them be slaughtered by each other. And put on the NGOs that you haven't even booked the space there and they're around and they're all hooked up with money. But don't put them in residential areas. What's Erdogan's plan? I'm used to it here, beyond suggestions, making specific things to understand. Evros. The Turkish press yesterday. "Food first: twenty thousand and creating a neutral zone on the eastern side of the Evros river." That's at our border. It's the first phase of the Erdogan Plan. ‘Feed second: Hot spot creation’. He's working on it. I said it the other day and he's preparing it today. From today, he started the hot spot east of Evros. 'Third phase: After two months, setting a neutral zone from the European Union with the stamp of Turkey'. So we will have a group of thirty-forty thousand Islamic people to the east of Evros. And we will have in Komotini, the nest of Turkish expansion of sovinism in the consulate, on the other side. It will be sandwiches the only county, Evros, our line of defense, which has a solid national, Greek presence, without agents. Plan two: I'll remind some people who don't know history. Do you remember what happened in 1975 with King Hassan the second in Morocco? Let me tell you what can be done. It was a conquest of the Spanish Sahara. The Spaniards had her. He wanted the king of Morocco to release this region. She put the women and children ahead and marched all the way to Spain. They entered the border and smuggled into Spain because they wanted autonomy, self-determination of the region. He wanted Morocco to become independent. And he went all the way to Spain. No one shot a Spaniard because they were civilians. So imagine 20 thousand of these guys coming in and breaking up like a river. Imagine how far they might be. The story repeats like a prank and is used by every Erdogan. That's what you don't understand. You don't understand this plan. Look for the story in 1975. I told you about King Hassan II of Morocco. There's another plan. There's the asymmetrical threat. What I said to you earlier: three hundred and fifty thousand people advanceed through the Spanish Sahara on November 6, 1975, accompanied by twenty thousand soldiers. Spanish forces didn't open fire, afraid of civilians. So what happened? The Madrid Agreement was made on 14 November 1975. Morocco and Mauritania have shared the lands of the Spanish Sahara and has lost Spain. I'm telling you, to think cooperatively about our Thrace and what might happen. And I tell SYRIZA's friends more to figure out what's coming. Let them realize that the party is not above all. Greece is above all. Erdogan's plan for me is the diversion, his third plan. We're tired of Evros. He's psychologically testing us as a country and as a political system. It's a distraction. He'll hit the Aegean. That's for granted. That's why attention to Kastelorizo, Ros and Strongyle. I say it here. Remember that. Take care of these areas. I call on the Department of National Defence to pay attention to these areas. I'm making suggestions. Yesterday I told you about Huffar. I am pleased to tell you that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has heard it. And well done, Mr. Minister, that yesterday Mr. Dendias told Mr. Mylonakis that he heard this as an idea. We have to buffer azone in northern Libya, where Hufftar needs Greece. All African illegal immigrants should go and stay there. He heard. Italy and Spain and France do it in North Africa with special zones. We can do it there for the Africans. That's good. Second sentence: It is this, gentlemen of the New Democracy. It is used by too many countries, from Australia, Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic, Poland, Spain, Turkey, USA, England. It is a small machine, but highly efficient, used in the Navy to create noise pollution throughout the region within a radius of three, four kilometers in a straight shot. You see the boat and you create noise pollution. It's hideous. He's not coming near. It's called LRAD. It's a sound warning device, with a strong outburst, annoying sound that makes you deceive, don't go where the sound comes from. It's not war. You don't shoot. It's used for tsunami. It is used by many armies for rallying and protests. Take it. It's obsessed. It's very cheap. You put them on the port and they keep sending the message with the boat they see. Australia does it, and people get rid of it. There are solutions. I want you to listen to us. I'm filing it for the record, so there's a record. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above file, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's a wide range acoustic device. That's what it's called. They took it off two years ago. Isn't that what New Democracy knows? You don't have counsellors you've taken, scientists you've taken, so hard is it? We have tabled a series of proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u202	We turned it down so we don't mess around the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u203	Let's humiliate the Turks towards the best of Asia Minor. Listen to me saying 'cause they don't listen well. I also said yesterday, as long as we don't have a border zone, you can't do push back under International Law. I've said it a thousand times. And if you're smart, you'd do the same thing. “Come here, my lad, have you been smuggled? Your papers. Don't you have any papers? Your cell phone directly to catch the slave trader. Who spoke to Turkey, as Denmark does, like France, Italy, all countries. He's got the cell phone and he's taking a picture of the other one and painted with the lipstick and the bourga. It's not about laughing. It's tragic. This means that we do not have the facility to prevent entry. We're telling them: "Come on. We have opened and are waiting for you." Also, at some point we must all parties together and I call on everyone to decide something very simple. Greece has hundreds of millions of euros imports from Turkey. I do so for the first time in public and appeal to all of you. Where they see Greek code 869 on barcode not to buy the product. It's a Turkish product with barcode 869 to start, so it starts. No one gets it, no matter what this product is. We must press commercially. North Iraq did it a year ago. They lost 500,000,000 Turks and were forced to withdraw from the area from the illegally occupied penitentiaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u204	What's the barcode?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u205	Turkey's original barcode, of Turkish products, is 869. Some people smile. They don't realize it's all money. Everything is revenue and expense and everything is done for money. Thucydides said so about the resources. Where'resources' are money. If we financially push them there, we make them in the Gardens a problem with the trucks that spend hundreds of days without doing anything, I'm not saying we're closing the border, but creating them. We can delay arrivals and departures from there, as some people do every time. We can give solutions. Of course, you know, what bothered me, Minister, is what the relevant Minister for the Interior of the European Union said. Is it true, Minister, that you have not asked for any assistance from the European Union to get people there? Mrs. Johanson said so yesterday. There's a statement he said he wasn't asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u206	For those who come in now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u207	The Germans don't get five thousand. To go to Germany. Be kind, Mr. Comrade. You'll learn to hear first. When one asks, it means he doesn't know self-evidently. I asked. Be more polite. I said, Is that true? Yes or no? You suggestions I don't want for my language at least because my studies are specific. So let's go to Rodopolis. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what insults me most is that by copying you make tragic mistakes. I had said sometime here, Admiral, about mines in Evros, and most of them fell to eat me. The Ottawa Agreement of 1999 speaks of staff mines. Putting up anti-tank, putting in a wall. We fear the Turks. We have them to our side, and they seem to be causing and insulting. They want to do something. The Ottawa Treaty does not prohibit this story from putting anti-corruption and mixed mines in Evros and wherever I want it. Here it is! The Ottawa Treaty. Don't look at me like that, Mr. Voutsi, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u208	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u209	I'm not saying anything. Here it is. If you don't like international conditions, do not invoke them. Because neither Russia nor France nor America nor Germany have even withdrew the anti-tank. Especially many countries did not agree with that. And it says Article 10, if I am not mistaken, that for national reasons a country can violate the Ottawa Treaty. Are we not at risk from Turkey, Mr. Voutsi? Every day, don't Turkish planes fly over the Aegean Sea? Haven't they invaded Cyprus?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u210	Are you talking about anti-tank?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u211	For the Ottawa Treaty, I tell you in 1999. It's one of my college work. The Ottawa Treaty says that only anti-personnel protection is prohibited. It's over and out. The rest is of the wicked one and of the majority. I'm talking about Turkey now. If we want to have defense from Evros, because many things happen, there are ways. I went to a spectacle. I don't know where you were, Mr. Voutsi. I've learned not to laugh at anyone for their opinions. It's a documented opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u212	Anti-corrosive mines are up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u213	Not everywhere. You know what I'm saying. I say hang up here. Make a wall decent, not fences and wire. Because you've made a wall, and everyone's coming underneath it. I showed photos yesterday. I went upstairs. No one in here has gone up there. Has anyone gone up to the Castanes? None of you went and all you have an opinion. Go talk to the civilians. The clean Monday, I was there. I didn't throw a hare either. People are out of their minds. They go in every day. Underneath the fence, they pass. The river passes. And people come out in newspapers and say this unimportant: Citizens, they say, are para-staters. The citizen who protects the property of Evros, so that the illegal immigrant doesn't break in, he's para-stated! What else do I hear? The national guard and the philosopher, this is the idea of the false left. That's what bothers me on the fake left. You don't want a militia and a national militia at the border? Army, you don't want. Militia, you don't want to. Police, you don't want to. What the hell do you want? Why does your chief have cops if you don't want them? But for our own use we want them? In conclusion, since you are so clandestine: Islamic states and rights. I won't tell you about the bourgases or closed structures. Has the Islamic States signed the Universal Declaration on Human Rights? They signed her? I'll tell you what. Oh, no! Never! They never signed. If, therefore, those states that want to have human rights in my own country do not sign the declaration of human rights, they are not entitled to invoke it. Finish and run based on logic. If you do not understand where Greece is driving in a very short time, we will have huge problems. And I don't know how many of you have realized what's coming. Because it's not bad for a stranger to come home, but to know who he is. I told you that you have a different concept in the sense that I want anyone in my home country, but to know that he's the one. We don't know who all of them are. Don't you understand? That's a problem, and my perception and resistance. I was an immigrant, too. I grew up in Germany and had me as a blackhead. There were thirty little germans blonde and a dark ego. I've suffered racism, but they knew where I live, who I am. We don't know who all of them are. We don't know what their name is. How do you accept this thing? I don't really understand it, and I wonder how you accept it. Finally, I would like to say about a post of "KATHMERINI" to go to finance. Two trillion euros, he says, cost the rescue of banks to European citizens. Two three. All European citizens have paid to rescue the banks. They practically killed the world financially to save the banks. This is true throughout Europe, not only in Greece. The Labour Day, therefore, will begin to flow blood from the confiscations of the Greeks on the streets. The electronic auctions of over two hundred thousand houses and properties of the Greeks will begin. Take care of this. Perhaps after the illegal immigration, the new Republic's swan is this red-loan story. If you want to do something good as for the funds, it will also apply to borrowers. Let's not drink them any more. There's no more blood on Greek. He solidified his blood. We all drank it, and we didn't get enough. That's the worst of all. So look at the Greek with social sensitivity and solidarity. Love the Greek, because the Greek pays tax, loves his homeland, is not a racist, but above all, the state must embrace him. From the very hug that our state makes him, he's tightened him up too hard and in the end he'll drown him and die and there won't be Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u216	Here you go, Mr. President. You have a minute to clarify that you want to make
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would not intervene for ideological controversy with the Chief of Greek Solution. I would just like to clarify three things for both the Minutes and those who are listening to us. First, for Ottawa, allow me, Mr President, to speak with us. In Ottawa, a brake entered the dispersion of anti-personnel mines. Battle mines are an operational issue for the Armed Forces, for which we have no doubt that all the relevant measures have been taken. Even if they haven't, they'll know why they haven't been taken. It is therefore not a question that we can discuss in the Greek Parliament on the grounds that immigrants and refugees are on the other side. I'm talking about anti-tank mines. Secondly, the para-states that Mr Velopoulos said. We must be very clear. There are all the forces, the state, on the orders they've taken. No one else - because 90% of citizens have shotgun upstairs because they are hunters, etc. - he may be roaming to exercise at this time on behalf of the state and society anything as a threat to those whom Mr Erdogan works against and puts them across our country. And I would recommend - with us I always say - that the relevant information, which has been provided by the competent authorities to the people of Evros, should be too careful and that people should not come out either with thoughts or with buttons around - about doing what they are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u218	With this you do not disagree with Mr. Velopoulos. He knows why he went upstairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u219	Yes, but Mr Velopoulos' rhetoric on these issues leaves impressions which need to be clarified in an institutional manner. That's why I'm telling you, I don't have an ideological controversy. Thirdly and finally - just so Mr Velopoulos knows - I was in the 712 Mechanics Battalion, while I was a political engineer, as a pioneer, a sand-consumer named 'C' in 1978, i.e. on post-conference. Well, not to me, if that's possible. Who have gone and who have not gone to Alexandroupolis and Evros, if possible, tell them anywhere else. The impressions about the left and who owns the money and who doesn't go to the army, and the others, please, are directed to another audience, perhaps even on television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u221	He didn't just say about you, did he? You're welcome. But you have a minute to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. With respect to the President, I am pleased that SYRIZA has many lines. Because SYRIZA's youth is against the Greek Army. Everyone's a conscientious objector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u223	Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u224	Wait a minute, there's an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u225	Where's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u226	But I am pleased about what you are saying. There are announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u228	Okay, and for Macedonia there were no announcements. There are announcements here. What can we do now? Let's actually go. You're probably not well informed, Mr. Voutsi. Cocoons are not worn by the militia, nor by the national guards, nor by the thoughts of Evros. Now, if you guys are shaded by the polar guard's image, it's your thing. But that's what legislation says. The state guards and the national guards are there. National guard means "I have the gun and I do this job". In Switzerland, for example, a country with no enemies, the citizen at home has the gun, the G3, A4, the FD has it at home. You know that? In Switzerland, he's got it in his house and he doesn't have the army. He's got it there, he's at his house. So don't talk about capitalism and so on, because there were two - three graphics that wore bracelets at the syllables. Don't make it a flag. He exposes you and reduces you as a human. Of course I've seen a lot of hoods. I've seen them outside the Constitution burning Athens, I've seen molotov flying, in Exarcheia, I've seen hoods. But telling me that the militant and the national guard have a hood, is unfair to these people. Because these people are protecting their own property and our own space, our own country. They don't do it in a bad mood. And on the other hand, you don't know something very simple and I'm sorry to tell you that. That's not the army. That's where only the police are trying. It's forbidden for the army because they're civilians across the street. It is incomprehensible that the government, according to its own customary procedure, should set up an army. He'll never put an army. He's got the MATs ahead. The bad MATs that we found, I said, about Chios various things, but they are the MATs that defend themselves against the civilians and civilians. It's not the army. So don't confuse them, it's not exactly like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we can say good evening. I would like to tell you what was decided at the Conference of Presidents, it will certainly be up to seven minutes to finish this evening. Of course, I don't see many of those who have been written to hear it, but that's what has to be done. The Minister for the Interior has now asked for the floor, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are going through a difficult and troubled period. Our country is in fact facing asymmetric threats, and we all have to show constantly that we have a plan and we are implementing it and that we can deal effectively with these asymmetrical threats. Small-party positions, micro-partial controversy, have no meaning in the field of national issues and policies needed to address the asymmetrical threats, nor do I believe that there are any useful attempts to cover up the political spaces like the one that was preceded by the previous one in Stepma, President of the Greek Solution. The citizens are first of all Greek and Greek, patriots, they are not party voters and I do not believe that they are the property of any party. The Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with his very decisive decision to block the border at any illegal entry, which has even been attempting in a massive and provocative way in the last days at our borders in Evros and on our islands, has shown once again that national security and national integrity are his and his government's absolute priority. The Prime Minister's decision is an expression of reasonable and responsible patriotism, but at the same time it also meets the universal folk demand. That is why I believe that, at the moment in the country, the feeling of unity and unity of the Greeks is powerful and expressed with the strong support of this decision of the Prime Minister from all Greeks, regardless of what they voted for in the recent elections, regardless of where they incorporate ideologically politically, socially. It is also expressed with a powerful "thank you" of all Greeks to the executives of the Armed Forces of the country and the Hellenic Police and to unprecedented acts of solidarity between the entire Greek people against those people who guard our borders. And for whoever cares: neither the Greek Army nor the Greek Police nor the Greek people will get tired of its borders and national integrity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And we are not going to allow any propaganda of Erdogan's lies to be believed by anyone. All humanity knows that we are absolutely right in this case too, all humanity knows that the Erdogan regime works and uses miserable people. Greece certainly requires Europe's solidarity, but at the same time we must be able to deal with this problem and the problem does not end here, it is lasting and it is unresolved, especially in our islands that have suffered the constant flows of particularly illegal immigrants. That is why I believe that the unity that has emerged these days should all be maintained as an eye daughter and not be a small parentheses in the country's political scene. This is not the case, as we have said, for micro-party controversy. It's a national case. They don't have a place here. It needs responsibility, realism and patriotism from all of us. The Greeks have proved that we are a hospitable people. We have shown this for years and since the beginning of this migration and refugee crisis. But I don't know anyone who's hosting his blackmailers or those who're using his blackmailers. Because we all need to realise that people who join our borders are neither Syrian refugees nor intimidated and persecuted people. They are immigrants who illegally attempt to enter the country. And that, of course, cannot be used, we cannot allow it to become a reality. They are people who Erdogan's regime is using them, which in no way can we tolerate. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of the Interior does not have any particular direct responsibility in relation to immigration. I am saying this because some colleagues asked about yesterday's meeting of the Ministers of the Interior. It is obvious that I did not participate, because I do not have the slightest authority. The country at yesterday's meeting was represented by the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetritis, the Minister of Civil Protection Mr Chrysochoidis, and the Deputy Minister of Immigration and Asylum Mr Koumoutsakos. That is why, as you can see, I cannot say anything about this issue or about the individual issues that have to do with handling this problem. But the Ministry of Interior, helping to deal with this situation, puts an end to an absurdity. An illegal immigrant could, within three years, have been entitled to seek Greek citizenship, despite the fact that he had come illegally to the country, while a lawfully arrival in Greece took seven years. Obviously the change is made because our country cannot be an attractive destination for illegal immigrants who have not only come, but also had the right within three years to become Greek citizens. I cannot believe that there is someone who disagrees with this change, following the experiences we have experienced over the years in Greece. I would also like to stress that the Ministry of Interior supports in many ways the island municipalities that are being tested, and they are being tested very hard indeed. And, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it proved to be a very bad idea to break up the island municipalities, because a large part of their inability to respond to fundamental functions is related to their breakdown and to the terrible way in which it happened, which has brought these people to a dead end. For this purpose, we have provided strong emergency financial support to all these municipalities. And now, with this bill, we are stopping, at least at this stage, the mobility of civil servants from these municipalities so that they cannot leave, because deforestation by staff would now be a definitive blow. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day the Greek people have entrusted the country with the responsibility of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the philosophy of the government towards local government and public administration is quite clear. We face self-government as a strong pillar of development, social cohesion and quality of life for citizens. This is our vision of self-government, and we are serving it with an organised plan and with persistence, constantly pursuing convergences and consensus with the other political forces, because we believe that the area of self-government is an area that unites the citizens, which I have said many times and we apply it in practice. There are no 'blue', 'green','red' or other mayors. The problems are the same for everyone, and we have to help them. That is why, on the part of the government majority and on the part of the Ministry of Interior, we also proved in the committee's meetings that we are in a serious dialogue with the views and ideas of the opposition parties and that we have accepted many amendments, as they were included in the same rationale as the government majority. And I do not hide from you that the feeling and mood I saw in the committee's discussions were extremely consensual than the first positions I heard here. Obviously everyone has an obligation to meet the directions of the leadership of their party. I understand that. Let us all remain in the mood to go down and find what unites us and put them forward so that we can get results. So, based on that logic, we have already started. In the first phase, in the summer, we restored rulership in municipalities and regions by resolving as much as possible the problems posed by the implementation of the mere actuarial. We also enabled the municipalities to cooperate extensively with the private sector, while the bill we are now debating is a second decisive step in the reconstruction of self-government. It gives development impetus to the municipalities, while at the same time facing a number of malfunctions in the public sector. It is clear that the municipalities need to develop and acquire, like the regions, additional powers and resources. After all, for this purpose we have agreed that we are all preparing a law - an incision to the things of the country, a very important reform, which we timelylylyly set toward the end of this six-month period. There is a committee that is politically pluralistic and consists of high-level people who organise the work of legislating, strengthening self-government with new responsibilities, resources and staff and clearing of responsibilities. Because our goal is mayors and district rulers to become real rulers in their country. This is what we believe will contribute to the quality of life of local communities. However, it was absolutely necessary to have an interim bill which would solve a number of urgent issues of self-government and would make a significant contribution to playing its development role. Let us see what we are doing specifically with this bill in this direction. If we did not do so now, we would have lost valuable time and the result would have been that mayors and regional managers in this four-year period would not be able to perform specific work on logistics, programmes and social interventions they need. We give the opportunity to create local government's development agencies as legal entities in the first and second grades of LAGs, which will be able to implement and implement important development programmes. We are effectively dealing with the huge problem of subscribing technical and building services to municipalities. We give the opportunity for programming contracts for the municipalities with the EBRD, with the development agencies, with the CFD, with the Crete Development Agency. We adopt the proposal made by the Qualified Opposition in committee for the possibility of cooperation of technical services from different municipalities as a successor to the oldest PICs in the prefectures. We also adopted this with a single objective, so that we can provide the necessary personnel for the design and supervision of projects to the municipalities. We have therefore proved in practice that what we are interested in is effective response to the problem. However, we have not suspended the appointment-recruitment procedures with permanent and technical staff. They all know that this is something that is short of time and that if we stayed on it, we would lose valuable space. We don't have any ideas. We are doing what we need to support with actions of self-government. In addition, the local government data register, in which all its assets and economic functions are recorded, is established for the purpose of developing policies. In my opinion, it is particularly innovative to regulate first of all for the three largest municipalities in the country, that is to say, to give them the opportunity to exercise competence by means of memoranda of cooperation with other public bodies, in order to facilitate their intervention in infrastructure and other issues that arise. We test it in the three major municipalities to see how it works and depending on the success of this institution, to extend it or to see how it can work better. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to the issues of changes in the public sector, I would insist that, at times, everyone should be very careful about certain issues. I do not believe that there is anyone in this Chamber who believes that this government is afraid that a municipality will become a referendum that will turn citizens against the government's policy. I don't see much passion in society doing this. Let us be serious and responsible. Serious national reasons oblige this suspension of referendums this four-year period. With this draft law we are implementing significant changes in the public sector. We are creating a central system for the administration of services, as mobility is now linked to the annual programming of recruitment. We're reducing mobility cycles. Turns out we can't do three circles in a year. We are putting a strict limit of four months in order to have clear procedures, and we are extending the possibility of participation to all officials, with the potential to keep the interview and not compulsory, because the requirement for interviews makes the four-month period of application of the mobility cycle practically unrealistic. The existing system for selecting seniors and local government is amended to cover the positions. We are giving great weight to the work experience, as this is laid down as a precondition for having nursed at least as head of department. We are increasing the modulation of relevant postgraduate and doctoral degrees. We are better stationed on the level of knowledge of the foreign language. Of course, we are making use of the institution of the interview, so that the committees can assess the real competences and, in particular, the skills of the administration of people who claim responsibility for self-government and the public. The disciplinary provisions for officials of the local authorities and the rest of the public are harmonized. For the first time a Human Resources Management Committee is set up in the public sector, which will be responsible for submitting a report on a four-year plan for the planning of human resources to the Minister for the Interior. This committee will have an important responsibility in shaping the recruitment planning next year. We therefore proceed with interventions to speed up the recruitment procedures and the functioning of the AACC. Some people talked about an AAP. I honestly find out what's on their minds. The AAP is here and will be tomorrow, under better conditions and conditions. In this bill we provide for certain arrangements: They will be issued by the AACC, and not by the Minister of the Interior, the fixed parts of the content of the notices for filling positions. The titles in foreign languages, English, French, German, Italian and Spanish, will be accepted without any translation being required, so as not to waste more time. So all of this is understood to be procedures and regulations, which help speed up the recruitment process. We regulate the issue of authorisations for civil servants in order to facilitate officials who have a real need to facilitate, because of their situation, and not by facilitating misuse of licences. We are doing, as I had promised, the day-old leave for working women in the public sector in order to ensure annual gynecological control, in practice promoting the strengthening of prevention policies. There are also regulations on the granting of licences for donors, disabled people and family support. We are open to proposals for changes and we will then discuss them so that problems do not occur in this area. Finally, I want to close with two predictions, which I consider to be extremely important. The first concerns environmental protection and satisfaction for the first time in the Treaty that state cars and motor vehicles can be electric cars and hybrids. I think it was time for Greece to adapt to this too. Finally, I am closing my speech with something, which I consider to be very, very important: we are definitively exempting our fellow citizens from the obligation to come and apply to the special administration of Athens. They will each be able to make a simple request for any presumption of the life of their own or their family from the consulate of the country in which they are located to do what they have to do, without any suffering and without any bureaucracy. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is worth another effort to bring convergence and consensus within the committee to dominate the parties, which I understand some people want to prevail. It's better to look out there in society and self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", fifty-two students and students and three teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Voudos Heraklion. We welcome you, guys, good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has since the beginning of the escalation of the crisis on the Greek border in Evros, due to Erdogan's work on migrants and refugees and extortion at geopolitical level, held a very responsible attitude. A attitude of support for the self-evident, guarding and security of our borders, and at the same time, like the President himself, Alexis Tsipras, said from this step a week ago but also several times, that there should be support for a national line, first of all in Europe, as the problem is primarily European, not bilateral. I therefore support European policy and, of course, a plan within the framework of refugee and immigration, which, ladies and gentlemen, is based on the principles of international law and humanism. So the truth is that while there has been such support and we have heard the Minister referred to the necessary national consensus, we have not seen on the part of the government that this attitude should be exploited. And to get things back in order. Of course it is good to have statements, visits by officials from Europe, as we have seen. No one will deny that. But, Minister, although you have said that and I understand that, you are not the Minister responsible for the Internal Affairs Council, who met yesterday in Brussels - it is not just a positive statement today, nor, of course, a promise of 700 million aid, which is a positive one, that is, of course, to see how it will be exploited. We also have suggestions and questions to the government. The question today, ladies and gentlemen, and Minister, is that there should be a strong Greek government policy, and with the support of counter-population, in Brussels, in order for there to be specific official statements condemning Turkey's actions and the unacceptable operation of desperate refugees and migrants for Turkey's geopolitical games. At the moment, Europe must recognise that there is a breach of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, with all the sanctions and official declarations that it needs to be made to the Turkish side, and at the same time there is the need for the interim - and here we hear nothing from the Government - to have an alternative plan, which at last fairly distributes the burdens and responsibilities of this great European, not just Greek, and to deal with the refugee and immigration under the rules of International Law. We are, of course, talking about the activation and development of a relocation plan for refugees and immigrants in the other European countries. And the criticism made, Minister, is why the Committee on Home Affairs itself came out yesterday, which stated that it never received such a request from the Greek Government. This is where a question arises. When the officials came to Evros three days ago and this positive visit took place, did the Greek Prime Minister not raise this matter? Of course, on these issues you say that you cannot answer, but they must be answered. It is also a necessary issue, which concerns our islands, the existence of a national decongestion plan, and in this regard we should put our backs on as Opposition. And you know that there is, because you are the incumbent minister, and the decision of the CEDEFOP, which is positive in the logic of decongestion and relocation. So make use of the official decision of the CEDEFOP in this direction. At the same time, take the unacceptable act of legislation back, without authoritarianism, without insisting on cheques and closed centres. And because in this bill you have brought an amendment on the refugee issue, I would like to ask, Minister, if with this amendment - and I did not hear it from your lips, I expected you to listen to it - you are now entering a logic that we have asked you to decongested islands and inland relocations with a specific plan and, of course, with respect to human living conditions. If that is the case, tell us, of course, it would be welcome. But I would like to know, Minister: Article 3 of this amendment is exactly what it is doing, what purpose it is, when you come here and under the previous law that has been implemented all the previous years by SYRIZA, it has been six months since the aid and support of the refugee refugees who have now taken refugee has been officially awarded them the status of the political refugee. You're the one who cut it down in a month? What's the logic here? Let's understand. Your logic is that you are reducing support for recognised refugees in the mainland, leaving them without social support and gradual integration, and then transfer people from the islands? But is that reasonable? Explain it to us. Because the amendment comes in this bill and we expect concrete answers. We expect, above all, that you get Article 3 back and go back to six months and explain your thinking. So I come to a second topic in which you have made a specific reference. And I am talking here about matters relating to the naturalisation process, issues of your Ministry and of the rule of law and of rights. So you are suspending for six months the naturalisation process brought by SYRIZA's government under Law 4604/2019. It has not been possible to apply it. The elections have been held. It's been all these months. You don't apply him. You're inhibiting him. You're saying you're bringing in another procedure. If I understood well from the legislative improvements, you are withdrawing the provision that we, too, have asked you to withdraw, concerning the children of migrants, as well as the positive measures. That's what I understand from the legislative improvements. I would like you to confirm that if that is the case. Unfortunately, however, you leave and insist that there is no positive measure as regards the stateless Roma who are born in Greece, are not immigrants, and their families are many years in Greece, decades, centuries perhaps. They, precisely because of their way of life, can certify that they have been born in Greece, but they have not been written in polls as required by the law for the rest of the citizens. And here's the question: what is your integration policy? You have abolished the corresponding special secretariat that existed on this issue and now you are coming and instead of finding a way of establishing criteria and respecting them - the rapporteur of the Communist Party said so before - you are simply abolishing it. However, this is a particularly impressive thing and you said it as a positive measure - and I am truly surprised, because I think that you also have a sensitivity on some issues - is the other amendment that you have put forward in relation to the change of the Code of Nationality. And we are talking about a provision, ladies and gentlemen, of 2004. It's not SYRIZA's arrangement. It is a provision that has existed since 2004 and which all governments have maintained. You also make a misinterpretation, at least as we see this amendment that you have brought. Why really, what's going on here? You abolish the right to apply for naturalisation within the three years of residence in the country, and not seven such as in other cases, first for the parents of Greeks, namely for the parents of children or other persons who are already Greeks and also for those who have received political protection from refugees. What is the point of coming here and abolishing a provision that has been in force for sixteen years, which is a provision of European rule of law? You did not convince yourself with your arguments and we are, of course, perverse. With regard to the draft law, our rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, has made a detailed reference to the issues where we continue to have a problem. Here we want to acknowledge that you have made an effort to adopt many of the comments and improvements. However, there are still a number of issues which are problematic and which we believe, Mr Minister, that you need to see them again. First of all, we are not convinced of why you are suspending local referendums. We cannot understand the national reason. We consider it anguish and insecurity as a whole of the New Democracy party towards immediate democracy. In addition, with the same logic, we consider that the regulation you are bringing to us is undemocratic, for the decisions of the municipal councils which cannot be executed unless the mayor agrees. We believe that this is a follow-up to all the undemocratic arrangements you have brought in last summer. You abolished the simple analogue, although this is how you violate the expression of popular sovereignty, as the municipal and regional elections held last May. Now, on public administration issues. The rapporteur has also been mentioned. We consider that the assessment of the position of heads of government is excessive the moleculosis that you give the previous service and experience in positions of responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two more minutes from my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u233	Please, you'll have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u234	We believe that this is how you lock the hierarchy of public administration and do not allow the necessary renewal to take place with the corresponding qualifications that the public administration needs when it comes to the development of its staff. We would say, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that you really have the opportunity to make further improvements in matters relating to European legislation, and I refer to the issues of self-government, but also to issues that I raised before about refugees and the Code of Nationality, according to the case-law and principles of a rule of law. So we expect you to be clear on these issues and certainly we cannot accept the logic and arguments you have come here to support the change of the Code of Greek citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit to its report the request of the Prosecutor for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against a Member. The curtain of the speakers will be opened by Carditsa, George Kotsos from New Democracy. I repeat, there will be seven minutes, because there will be some colleagues, such as Mr Spankis, who will speak at one night.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a matter concerning self-government, a structural pillar of our country's democracy, one of the three structural pillars, which is the central government of the state, regional government and local government, which plays an important role in the lives of people living in the countryside and throughout our country. In fact, since the threat we face at our eastern borders is topical, I should like to highlight the important role played by local government in dealing with the refugee - immigration. From the first moment that this issue was raised by local government, mayors and municipal councillors, being the fighters of the frontlines, close to the local communities, near the citizens, have given the battle every day to ease the burden of local communities. I was very impressed by the statement by a political leader, who said that if you look from space, your borders seem absurd. I could agree with him if we lived in space. However, because we live on earth and are residents of Greece, our borders are the limits of our national sovereignty, they are the limits of our nation and we must preserve them against anyone who either supervises them or attempts illegally to enter them. To return now to local government and the draft law we are discussing today, I would like to point out that local government is the most reformed institution in our country. Over seven reforms have taken place in local government over the past twenty to twenty-five years. We started with the open cities, we moved on to the development associations, the district councils, the "Kapdistrias", where the communities were abolished and united in the first municipalities, the "capodistrians", the "KALIKRATI" and the "KLITHENI". The aim of all these reforms was indeed to develop local government at a local development centre in a region. Did we do it? Did we get it? Does it perform this role, this purpose, local self-government today? It is certain that even today local government remains closely tied, not to say desperately bound, to the central government. He did not acquire the self-employed, he did not acquire the self-reliance he should have and should have had in order to be effective and effective in resolving issues relating to local communities. It is crucial and I would really like to congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, which is making this effort, the introduction of a law that will give the real value to self-government, but at the same time separate all the levels of power that exist in our country through a specific definition of the responsibilities and the responsibility each level will have. Of course it is important for this reform to be long, indeed to represent a modern, effective, fast state for the benefit of the citizens. Why are you all aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the purpose of our existence is not to be MPs, mayors or municipal councillors, it is to serve the citizen, serve the Greek and Greek and the Greek administration system of our country that will give us efficiency and speed in solving the problems. What are the problems facing self-government today? I could divide them into three categories. One is the institutional framework. An institutional framework which the current Minister is trying to answer with his staff. Dynamic, embarrassing, ineffective, which is most often incomprehensible for those who serve local government and lead them very easily to the courts, so that most of the self-government operate horrificly or to the limits of illegality and irregularity. That is why, and a colleague, a former mayor, admitted at some point - and it was self-evident for us who served for self-government - that he had to have two funds so that he could effectively run his municipality. Another issue and a big problem for local government is the resources, the existence of serious, decent and specific resources, which will give self-government the right to do its work in the best possible way. In this respect, the announcement by our President that HNPH will be a very specific resource to be given to self-government. Minister, I have the feeling that this separation of resources, regular revenues, extraordinary revenues and exceptionally unqualified revenues, there is no reason to exist. It creates an artificial separation, a complexity in their management and does not help to make efficiency, flexibility and speed. The other issue, the other problem facing self-government, is the human potential. Most of the municipalities are incomprehensible, especially the municipalities of the countryside of Greece, mountain and island cities, where in most cases they cannot serve their daily lives at the level of the bureaucratic process. So there is a need for effective support to be given to the human resources of the municipalities, and I would say that there should also be a specific provision when these recruitments are made in mountain and remote areas for a specific time in which officials are staying in these municipalities. Of course, because of the subsistence of the municipalities, these municipalities, small islands, mountain and disadvantaged municipalities fall short of large organized municipalities and at the level of the use of European resources, since European funds are the fund that can actually give the opportunity to carry out major projects. Therefore, the regulation we have for the exploitation of either AETA or the single organisation of capacity to enable small municipalities to implement their projects is moving in the right direction. Of course, we also need to see 4412 because, under the existing procedures at least three years, Mr. former Minister, local government wants to do so from the time it makes a study to get to work. A characteristic example of what I have mentioned other times from this Step, when in 2018 due to flooding phenomena we received EUR 500,000 from the Ministry of the Interior, in order to deal with flooding phenomena with an end date of eighteen months, and after two years we managed to install a contractor. In conclusion, I would like to point out to you the important role that the existence of development companies or development agencies, as you say, partnerships between self-government, the social partners and the other players in the social economy, which are really through the flexibility they have, through their effectiveness, proved to be useful and useful tools at the disposal of selfgovernment over time. Finally, I would like to call for funding for local spatial projects, for the implementation of local spatial plans to the municipalities, since the general urban plans, but also the FAQs, have now been overcome by reality and need to be updated, since they are the local territorial constitutions of local societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. The Minister for the Interior has asked for the floor for a brief speech. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u238	I have just asked for the floor for a minute to give a clarification, because it is clear that one of the issues raised by Mrs Xeno-Gananakopoulou comes from a misunderstanding. In the three-year regime we remove the people who have taken refugee status, the political refugee. We do not, however, exclude people who are either European citizens or - most importantly, because you have referred to this - parents of children who are Greeks. They're not excluded. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to look at the amendment, because you have referred to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u239	Minister, you take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u240	We do not exclude it, and we do not exclude stateless people, non-nationals, because it is an international obligation. You, however, mostly referred to the issue of Greek-speaking parents, whom we do not exclude, remains the same regime. You can see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u242	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u243	Minister, I take your position as an attempt to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u245	And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u246	That is what the Minister said at the beginning, that he wants to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u247	But I am referring to the amendment. The amendment you have brought to amend the Code of Nationality explicitly abolishes with regard to the parents of Greeks and also to political refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u248	Not the political refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u249	For the refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u250	First of all, I'd like you to tell us about the political refugees, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u251	I explained why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u252	But they're already political refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u253	I've explained why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u254	We are not convinced of that. When they already have the status of the political refugee, you say that they do not have the right within the three years that all the previous years were in place and take it to the seven years. It doesn't make sense. These people already have international protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u255	Answer, Minister, in two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u256	I have to read it. I don't understand the insistence on this part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u257	Minister, tell us what you're reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u258	It's clear. (c) in indent (d) of Article 5(1) of the Code of Hellenic citizenship, as ratified by its first article Ν.3284/2004, is replaced by the following. Watch what we say. ‘For holders of nationality of a Member State of the European Union, spouses of Greek or Greek children, who have the parental care of a Greek national born in Greece, as well as of the stateless, the previous legal residence of them in Greece for at least three years’. It's very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, let me clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u260	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u262	Hasn't that been shared, Minister? To study it, the Parliamentary Representatives and the rapporteurs and to reply. Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, give me a minute to help the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u264	I can't spoil you. Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. You're very democratic in the process. First of all, we don't get into any trouble. Minister, it has to do with the abolition of the positive provision, not in the amendment, but in the positive provision brought about by the 2019 Act. And there, as you did, the modification for the children of AME and indeed there is still a positive provision, we ask you to do the same in a positive arrangement for the non-natives who are actually born in Greece from decades and generations. That's where we're talking about the stateless. That's the one part. As far as the Code of Greek citizenship is concerned, we are talking about political refugees. Because we cannot understand how one can have the status of a political refugee and abolish the right to be able to apply for naturalisation in three years. That makes no sense, and at the same time you have told us about the parents and husbands who have European citizenship. In any case, for the political refugees, we do not understand why this distinction should be made and we will look - I hope it is as you say - as far as the parents of the Greeks are concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u266	They feed the bones of Harilau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u267	Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u268	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u269	No dialogue, please. Mr. Polakis, your colleague went up to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will use the same beginning you had in your speech. The fact is that we are at a difficult time, Minister, which is becoming even more difficult because of the government's shortcomings and delays in the issues that concern us at our borders. We have made it clear that we will contribute to a patriotic and nationally advantageous solution, with the defence of our patriotic and sovereign rights, but with a summit of political leaders and a Council of the European Union. When I talk about a European context, Minister, let me also tell you on the basis of the principles of European Enlightenment, this means that we will also say no to the extreme right, a right that you diligently "hatch" in your party and where you find it in society. Because it's a false scene of war you're building, when you want to feed such voices, and I'm telling you that because that's unlike the political initiatives that Mr. Mitsotakis takes. Don't say it's dangerous in possible provocations of our neighbors. For those of us we have something clear: Turkey's threatening and violating behaviour. But we are particularly surprised that you have found nothing to say in your speech about the statements made by the European Union's Internal Affairs Commissioner, even though you have been provoked for this. Because the Commissioner's statements reveal the extent of the hypocrisy and irresponsibility of Mr Mitsotakis and the government towards the Greek people. As the Commissioner herself said, the Greek Government has not even raised the question of sharing the burdens of the crisis and relocation of refugees from Greece to Europe. Minister, it seems strange to me. The first Minister in the classroom, Mr Theodorikos, does not know what was said yesterday at the Foreign Affairs Council of Europe. Please take the floor and answer us. Did you ask for or did you not ask for the European Union to help the burdens of the crisis, for relocations, for sanctions to be applied to Mr Erdogan? For it is clear from all of us who are threatening and who is violating international sanctions. So, of course, it explains why Mr. Mitsotakis set up a communication show at Evros but did not say a word to the European leadership that came to Greece about all that is main and important for our lives, for our country. That's patriotism. The question is: Can the Mitsotakis Government prove its patriotism? And we want you to tell the National Representation here, and that's why I'm talking to this tone, because it's very serious. Let us put aside the communication management that as a profession, Mr Theodorikos, you know it very well. But it is not all communication policy. You are feeding a climate of nationalistic deprivation, but you are not calling for a summit. If they are matters of life and death for Greece, if they are matters of the homeland, property of Greeks, human life, why are you not asking for the summit? Why don't you ask for sanctions on Turkish blackmails? Why are you not asking for solidarity and relocations from the Member States of Europe? And to end the specula, the guarding of the borders is self-evident. Are you suggesting that the borders were not guarded in the past four years or that the Greek Armed Forces did their job? Do you imply that any previous government of illegal immigrants left Evros and the security forces, the Security Bodies and the Armed Forces, did not do their job properly, or the residents of Evros did not have the necessary patriotic attitude and pride to protect our state with information? Tell us if there's anything like that. But the government is not something different from what the SYRIZA government did to Evros, but at the same time the government is trying to use Mr Erdogan's shoulder to blackmail and so not to face this blackmail. Instead of confronting Mr. Erdogan, he's a micropolitical man. The problem here is this. By not asking for sanctions, are you dismissing Greece's rights? Have you thought of that? Because yesterday we came to read news that Mr Erdogan will be closed, says the Garden Customs, instead of the Greek Government having taken such initiatives. Of course, in order to achieve this show you have set up, we hear that neo-nazis from Europe are also seeking to come to the border to make their own right-wing show. To forget what? The dramatic situation you have created on the islands, the mess you are personally responsible for? Since I remember well, you are one of the seven ministers irresponsible, responsible, but certainly failed, in immigration. Of course Mr. Theodorikos is gone. Where can he last? Mr. Lebanon will hear it all again. Because it was Mr. Theodorikos who tried to convince district rulers and mayors and did not achieve anything, unfortunately, because they fed envy, with pain, with hatred, in fear of the Greek people. Because in the 2015-2016 crisis that SYRIZA was responsible, we had backed up and personally discussed with our co-publishers to accept temporary centers, but then Evros was guarded. The real problem is in the islands. There Mr. Mitsotakis is trying to put a show on Evros to forget about what happened both with the MATs and the failed efforts at the expense of the islanders, who now pay for the old ageing and failure of Mr. Mitsotakis. Because it is a government which causes problems to all, both to islands and to refugees and immigrants. Lose - Lose everywhere. But now we're going to self-government. What exactly are they trying to do with this bill? Apart from the fact that it's a coffete of rhetoric what you have brought, Mr. Levanie, here. It's not even a "fashion" as the articles are irreversible. They hide that the articles which were not withdrawn, Articles 3, 4, 5, and others are not in accordance with European conventions, and that is why they were not sent to EFSA. If you have any paper from the U.S.S.S.S.A. on Articles 3, 4 and 5, you can bring it to us, because for Article 2 you only had a withdrawal. But what are they trying to do? They are trying to dismantle the development companies and allow me, Mr President. I had the pleasure and honour of being director of a development company for 15 years, and I would like to tell you that these people are now coming and completely degrading what a development company means. The development company is not a shop, it is not a supermarket of studies and projects, it is not a contracting service, it is a body where self-government and producers and cooperatives and legal entities will design development, claim innovation, to work in the private sector. And what are they coming now and doing? The development companies will become design shops, project stores and therefore at the expense of the private sector, to work on the globes. A "supermarket" will feed the right windshields. Right-wing scholars will carry development subcontractors. Right-wing manufacturers will take, and probably with rosphetti the recruitment will take place. That's actually what you're doing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. You don't feed it and go and make a coyote where you do it can't issue a certificate for the non-conformity of a contractor. Your people who will take the projects won't have their records dirty if they don't and they don't. As also, it will not be checked anywhere if the physical and economic object, i.e. the public interest, has been completed. And, beware, all of this about the development we learn from the streets - because they are circulating - you come to do it for specific photographic development projects that have damaged their balance sheets. You come, that is, to pay public money from public works damage to budgets. And I'm suggesting something very simple, so I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u271	No, Mr. Femmelle. In half a minute, you'll close, because there's a forty of my colleagues, and we'll have to get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u272	You're right, Mr. President. So I, Mr. Undersecretary, suggest...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u273	Close with this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u274	I propose that the balances of development should be profitable in order to make the services as you wish, even though we disagree with the services being entrusted. If you dare and don't have any slaps from the backstick - I say it clearly, if you don't have any slaps from the backstick - put this term in your own institutional framework, because there is a fact that there is too much more you are trying to do, such as legislating from the backstage door with authorisation to overrun the building regulations, for recycling centres and installations that have not been officially designated by the Ministry of the Environment. This is one of the other machines you set up...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u275	You're done, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u276	... because the back-up recycling facilities that go beyond the construction regulation have not been officially designated by the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u277	This is contempt for the next colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u278	So there's a lot we'll come back for, Mr. Lebanon, and we'll be waiting for you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u279	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u281	Minister, here you go, you have the floor. However, we must not respond to every Member, because everything is causing delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u282	No, no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u283	In fact, because I've called in Stepma Mr. Kegeroglu, I'd like to apologize to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u284	You don't have to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u285	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u286	Excuse me, Mr. Kegeroglu. I think Mr. Famellos of exaggerated zeal said some things. Evidently, there is an opinion from EFSA on the first articles. We have given it to the committee, and we are now tabling it in the Minutes. Secondly, EFSA has decided whether it is or is not contracting authorities. The Scientific Service of the Parliament in yesterday's report mentions it. So there's no point there. Moreover, for development agencies, all those applicable to public limited liability companies and their own equity and profitability obligations apply. Finally, I would like to make one comment. Obviously it is written that it falls under Law 4412, and through it all procedures are done and there is no exception to that. I give the opinion of EFSA in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Theodoros Lebanon, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u287	I call to Stepma the MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, I would like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u289	There's no minute. Respect the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u290	I want to help the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u291	You're not helping him. Don't talk. Don't be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u292	So you don't want the Ministry to be informed of decisions taken by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u293	No, no, we don't. If you would like, privately inform the Minister. If we continue with this process, we never finish. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u294	This type of debate, Mr President, does not do justice to the very institution of local government, which has a history and progress in the years of post-multi-population, when, from 1981 onwards, the six or more - thousands of communities who have just issued death-regulatory acts, have gone through the modern tools of local development, as formulated in the programming agreements, with the voluntary associations of the municipalities, with democratic programming by 1986 and, of course, with the self-regulated resources with the n 1898, which today also ensures this important funding tool for local government. The need for us to make further use of the country's accession to the European Union, the European programmes and to contribute local self-government to the development of the site led to the decision to combine communities and municipalities, beyond the voluntary, on the basis of the anthropogeographical units that would give a sustainable entity capable of playing the role of the local development agency. And so, we had the "Kappostrias" that created about a thousand local government agencies and then "Kalikaratis" with three hundred thirty local government agencies. However, what was the great institutional intervention in our country was the establishment for the first time in the history of the second degree of self-government in 1994 of the prefecture, which quickly depleted its potential in the narrow context of the prefectures and seemed to be the need - which we then covered - to the 'Kalikaratis' for the establishment of the regions that were elected. Local development, therefore, in the municipalities, regional development with the elected regions, regional funds, development law, management of the NRP in the regions, is all a cosmopolitan of innovative institutional reforms that have led to progress. And in this field, too many of the spaces that today say "I have experience", such as Mr. Hatzidakis from local government, have worked out the work of Kostas Scandalidis at the Ministry of Interior many times. Mr Famelos, who spoke earlier, says: 'I was the director of a development company', the other was the mayor - everyone in which he was elected - and everyone has a history of good development for his place through an institutional framework that we have created. And the crisis comes which, in fact, showed the need not only for Kalikaratis to take precedence over what we should have done to have a strong first and heretic region, but also in relation to legal persons. Do not forget that six thousand legal persons were working in the field of local government. The right one didn't know what the left one was doing. The responsibilities were confused and, above all, there was no transparency and control. So we have come within a new institutional framework and, indeed, it has been largely brought into order. But at the same time the abundance began. The government of SYRIZA came along with the idea of simply proportional to local government, while it did not take any initiative to assess the needs and strengthen the development of local government or to exploit the responsibilities that have to do with the social state or with anything in relation to its implementation at local level, it only came with the mere proportionalness to create a mess. And after July 7th, Mr. Mitsotakis' government tried to deal with it with a monstrosity. What you have created today in self-government is a drug-driven field for hereditary administrations that cannot respond to local needs, which are unable to implement what has to be done, because the ideas have been confused with the authoritarian methods you have chosen. And you come today with a bill that doesn't have strategy, it doesn't have a line. You don't say what you want to do in local government. You want the creation of'self-government' bodies - if it were for the state, we would call them 'para-state', which is the same - which is not directly controlled by the people and are not accountable to the citizens, to the citizens of a region. They go beyond the responsibilities of local government representatives and replace local government agencies, especially municipalities, in their development role. They're even substituting the ADP in its role. They are organizations - and, more generally, institutions - with the provisions of your bill, but they create about a thousand posters. That is what I think was your main criterion and your strategy, and prove the opposite. Thousands of five hundred new posters are created with this bill! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And it is the New Democracy that with us denounced SYRIZA his period for such a policy! And he's coming today to get over SYRIZA to land. Is it possible to have credibility, Minister, with this piece of legislation, with a piece of legislation that seducates the AAP? You come to talk about the choices of heads of state, and instead of what we have been setting up for a long time to create something similar to the ADP, a reliable system of promotion and selection of managers in management based on rules, principles and conditions, every Minister puts his criterion, every State Secretary, the condition - he will come and the next one, and he will change it - and we will go into a terrible situation. There is a need for an APA in the system of promotion and selection of Heads of Administration. I come because my time is running out on two, three individual issues that have to do with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Kegeroglu, you need to finish in half a minute. The time will be respected today. You know that there is flexibility from the Bureau, when possible. Today, there is no possibility. So, please hang up in a minute. I say it to everyone. You should know that you have seven minutes with a small tolerance, which can be half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I just need a minute to get back to my heart. I can stop now. If you want to let me finish, it's all right. If you don't want or you don't like what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u297	Don't put it that way. I don't judge what you're saying. I count time to be consistent with everyone. So hang up in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u298	It has already taken a minute with your remarks you are entitled to make. But let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u299	What do we have at night and you're in a hurry like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u300	We have a 40-speaking speaker and the debate needs to be concluded today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, I will be done in a, and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u302	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u303	We have a contradiction that has to do with the corners of recycling. While the angles of recycling fall within a green policy and development framework, they are based on a derogating provision, which says they do not need urban permit. This is a great contradiction. You cannot make green growth by violating the legislation that has to do with environmental protection. By way of derogation, of course, we have piles in the bill but we do not have time. I come to an amendment, Mr Minister, which I consider to be very important. On SYRIZA, Law 4443 enabled the municipalities to assume obligations of non-resident companies if they were solved. Commitment to the public and insurance funds would only be for the principal debt by deleting debts, fines and surcharges. Some municipalities made a decision to resolve operations on the basis of this institutional framework and then comes with Law 4483, the SYRIZA government, again in 2017 and with Law 4555/2018 says: ‘Have you made the decision now? Now, you will pay fines and surcharges." This is a caging and unwitting conduct of the public and shows its credibility in relation to legal certainty. If that's possible! What I am asking for, therefore, in the amendment I have tabled, Mr Minister, is for those municipalities that have been made in accordance with Law 4443, that there should be a transitional provision and that they fulfil their obligations under this law. For those who took after, with the other laws, the rest should apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u304	You're done, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u305	The same applies to many amendments, which you say you will go down - we in some of them agree - but you have not taken them down. For example, for those who regulate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Kegeroglu, please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u307	You're saying you have her ready to download. Bring her in. We'll support her. As well as the permits for presidents of PELs and legal persons, the collective bodies of the Government. Bring the orders. If you wish, we will, even of course, table a late amendment, see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u308	Hot request, keep the time by all. It's not a request. It's an obligation. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. I wish that SYRIZA's political speech would be commensurate with the line of Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos we heard a few minutes ago in the Chamber. It didn't take a few minutes, but Mr. Famelos came to undo it. He torpedoed the good climate that existed from the beginning of today's meeting and showed the real face of SYRIZA. We are therefore responding in particular. Specific statements in favour of Greece and Turkey have been made in recent days by most European leaders. If you want, we can send them to see them, study them. There is a conviction from the heads of the European institutions of violating the Treaty on European Union and Turkey. The decision of the Internal Affairs Council was clear yesterday in Brussels. You may not have read it. If you want, we have her here to show her to you. Mr Theodorikos simply said, not that he does not know what is happening right now in Europe, but that he did not attend because he was the Minister of State, the Minister for Migration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u310	Tell us if you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u311	Come here and see her. If you don't know English, I'll translate it to you. But the positions and the sanctions are clear. You're talking about an emergency summit. So we respond to all those who come...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u312	What's the sanctions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u313	Listen a little. Calm down. Mr. Polakis, have you been on the list of speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u315	You can talk. So we'll hear you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u316	I have the impression that the Rules of Procedure are currently being violated. I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, you have been ministers and you did not want to interrupt. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u317	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u318	What do you want me to do? Please interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u319	To tell the sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u320	Everyone says what they want. No one's going to tell him what to say. Why such anger today and such a turbulence? Calm down. Go on, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u321	SYRIZA's colleague has learned to fly and not to discuss parliamentary matters. When your time comes, you will ask the questions and get the answers. But in the meantime, I want you to tell us some other things when your turn comes. Have you ever seen European leaders of the European Union's institutions living in the field of crisis come, observe what is happening at the border and all of them convicted of condemning Turkish provocation, condemning the situations that exist there, and ultimately doing the statements, but also practically taking the measures in favour of Greece? It's thirty-five and thirty-five million, which they gave. FRONTEX sends the help she sends. Developments are continuous and rapid. As you can see, despite the provocative nature of our northern border, we are dealing with it in a concrete way and with a specific strategy. However, if we want to go a little further to the essence of your thinking, I would like you to read more carefully Article 78(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Mr Famele. According to the article, therefore, for the extraordinary convening of the Council and its decision to be taken by the Commission, a proposal should be made after it has been consulted with the European Parliament. The people in charge were here. They're in position. We in the multi-dimensional policy that we are pursuing, when and if the Council needs to come, be sure of the regulations - not the many, but the Europeans - when the time comes, what needs to be done will be done. As far as the Council of Political Heads is concerned, you know very well - in a good climate, not like what you are firing here today - that Mr. Dendias informed the relevant representatives of the parties yesterday. Parliament is here. The ministers are on their way all the time. They inform parliamentarians and the Greek people through MPs about developments. The view expressed by you today at the meeting of the Heads of State or Government, for us at this stage, will not add anything positive. But turn around a little bit of time back. On the capital issue of the Prespes, you, Mr. Tsipras, didn't come to call the Board of Chiefs. So what legalisation are you coming today and you are asking for this request at this time? But don't forget who you are. Because we have seen your real face which, unfortunately, is not, as I said before, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou. You can't stop surprised us unpleasantly. Before Mr. Tsipras at "MEGA", which was previously wanted to be closed, he is now glad to be open, for four days, your President has been waiting to see how the situation will develop in Evros, in order to then come to his place. The extremist side of your party has unleashed these days. Your youth, we heard what she was saying. He invited us to open the border. We heard Mr. Kritsis talking about filming at Evros. We heard Mr. Xanakopoulou call the Prime Minister as Orban of the Mediterranean, and today we heard Mr. Born to say, in fact, that the locusts took their weapons, not to help and show real solidarity with the National Guards, the Army and the Police, which is doing its duty, as the majority of the Greek people want, but he spoke about dangerous situations in Evros, for residents who came out, he says, with caramboins, to protect the villas that they illegally built in the area, at the border. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese, presents for the minutes the above file, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we want an answer. He's your Mr. Bored Member. Of course, Mr. Tsipras' last position in "MEGA" does not mean that suddenly your Chief became a responsible politician. Just as I said before, he tried to find out the resonance of the manipulations of Mr.Mitsotakis, to understand that he has been isolated from Greek society and wanting not to remain behind developments and to be isolated, he made the need for esteem. But don't think SYRIZA has really changed. You don't change. And in order not to think that we speak in words like you and we fly, I would like to show you the headlines of "AGE" today. It says here: "The government opens the door to neo-fascism. It covers the invasion baits.’ That's what it says today. If I'm not mistaken, "AGE" is your party body. Right? So we ask you directly, and we want answers, Mr Polakis, and your colleagues. Aren't you honestly ashamed? Don't you realize that you're a Qualified Opposition, that you've ruled, and that you're not 3%? Don't you understand that you can't abandon the government that it opens the door to neo-fascism and covers invasion battalions? Aren't you ashamed to call our National Guards acting under the instructions of the country's Armed Forces? Do I need to remind you that you, your MPs and Members of Parliament, who took their walks with the true enthusiasts of the raid orders throughout the territory, politically strengthening them, with Mr. Kammenos your friend? You have no mind at all, ladies and gentlemen! You're insisting on a divisive dialogue. You are trying to divide the Greek people again on the basis of your extreme ideas that you cannot hide. You are the ones who, with your atrocious and utopian views, who are now clear that they are not only about youth but about your large majority, with small exceptions, leading to the polarization of society, in a matter where unity and national unity are necessary. After all, you are if I am not mistaken of Mr. Tsipras' right hand that he did not hesitate to describe the Prime Minister as a text of the "grante maestro cornburgo", when the Prime Minister was in Evros with the whole of the European leadership. You're laughing, Mr. Famele, but it's a shame if you're covering these statements. We are waiting for your answers, but they are specific and stop mocking the Greek people on such serious national issues. We heard yesterday and today and Mr Velopoulos propose in another climate, indeed, some solutions which, as he said, the members of the government are listening to, and some which are serious and practicable will judge them. But we heard him also making admonitions and suggestions to the government. The serious proposals, as I said before, will be heard even if they come from SYRIZA, populism, but we return them to you and to the Greek Solution. However, because it is good and to be conveyed by Mr Velopoulos, the one who teaches to speak truths and not inaccurate ones, let us clarify certain things. The Chief of the Greek Solution in the minutes of the Parliament submitted a post of the "FINANCIAL TIMES" yesterday, which proves against him, I hope not that all members and MPs of the Greek Solution will accept that the New Democracy Government today discuss with Germany the debt relief allegedly in exchange for the acceptance of thousands of immigrants in our country. However, since here, despite the good efforts of Mr Polakis and his friends, it is the Greek Parliament and we must all be serious, I call on the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos and his representatives here today to see what they have tabled yesterday, and to stop bringing to the House some make news. This post is, ladies and gentlemen, 2016 not today. As far as I know, and I think we all understand that, then it was not the New Democracy government, but SYRIZA. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us at least have a sense of space in Parliament. That is why I suggest that you too be more careful, especially when exercising this kind of criticism of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his Government. Returning to this reproach, I would remind you that both the small parties and the leaders of the small parties are judged, on the one hand, and on the other hand we let you have a good deal of it with SYRIZA, because if this text is the way Mr Velopoulos said, I read it, you will find it with SYRIZA. So we are clearing up the fact that the fact that the government is presently on the side of the party is good and clear. Our government has a concrete plan for the country and Europe that is evolving, and that is something you must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not a static one. It's not all a single thing, 'cause some people are screaming. It does not deal with any national or political issue with party targets or bumps, as you have criticised us before. Our doctrine is clear and is: First Greece. Our Government has made the right decisions in view of national and European interests. patriotism, confession, solidarity of the vast majority of Greeks and Greeks are completely incarnationd by government decisions. Aggression, populism, diversion to the false news of Turkish President Erdogan got their answers. The same will happen whenever the neighbor is dismissed. Our homeland with unity and national confidence will defend our national interests. He's already doing what our story teaches us. We are in every way safeguarding our sovereign rights and, of course, our national sovereignty, which I do not doubt all the leaders of the National Representation want. As far as the bill is concerned, to close it in time, I think that, as we have covered the issues and the ministers who spoke to our rapporteur, and then the speakers of the New Democracy will be able to get into its essence, because I do not want to exceed my twelfth, but I would like to point out that the process today began in a very different way from the one that is going on. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Spirtz, has essentially illustrated the reality that existed in the committees, namely proposals from SYRIZA, received by the ministers, a good climate, a good dialogue. He was forced to say a word more about opposition, but the essence was that. And I think that, in particular, at the moment when we are living, but also at the specific draft law which the government intends - you know - is to resolve practical issues and not to rebuild the charter of self-government, I address the KINAL which requested this, which will come to time, so that you can also change your staff and show this consensus that some of you are shouting that there is, that you vote this bill positively to go ahead and find solutions together for the problems facing our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u322	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, has called for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, I would like to speak personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u324	Can I answer you now? There's no staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u325	Too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u326	You think so! Staff shall be judged by the President. There's no staff. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that this is a very sad moment, when we hear the majority parliamentary representative at a difficult time, a time of crisis at the Evros border, to choose to come to this step completely outside the climate that the Civilian Opposition spoke today, outside the climate that the President of the Officerial Response from this Step since last week has been constantly talking about the need for national understanding. So the majority spokesman came here with an absolutely divisive and abusive speech, against Civicism and the Chief of Officership, Mr. Tsipras. So this is the concept of the New Democracy, and I am very sorry, because I appreciate Mr Lebanese and I have known him for many years, but I am sorry if that is the perception of national understanding and unity. I would therefore like to make it clear to him, because it may not be well informed, that Mr Tsipras did not first speak on Tuesday at the TV station 'MEGA', but already from this step last week, he had called on the Prime Minister to reach national agreement on the refugee and immigration issue, and he said to put back on Europe - because he saw what was coming - and also to remind you that there was an official announcement on Friday from the side of SYRIZA, where he was, of course, issued after a meeting presided by the President of SYRIZA himself. As for the front page of the newspaper “SYEW”, you should probably make the review elsewhere. Because when it says "HAY" that there is now a reputation for dryness, while there is historical and political memory in that country what it means to dryness, this did not come out randomly because it said "HAY". This came out as a result of the Prime Minister’s meeting when he had called the self-government from the islands. They went out and said and leaked that there was this thought, even adopting extreme voices like Mr Moutzouris. And because you mentioned, as far as the para-states are concerned, because they are referred to "SYRIZA" as "SYRIZA" of course does not speak of the army and the security forces and those who do their duty to guard borders - where SYRIZA as government clearly and confronted the borders and has faced a much greater crisis in 2015 - it speaks of para-stated and self-indicated armed forces who are currently circulating and terrorising, on the islands beat members of non-governmental organisations, threatens and you are coming here and cover them instead of disapproaching them. He has said something else - and with this I am closing down, Mr President, so as not to abuse - he has spoken to us about the Internal Affairs Council of the European Union. So you can read to us the conclusions, because we have seen only fine words, as well as the visit to Evros - which we said was positive as regards the funds to be taken from our country - but we have not seen a single sentence condemning the work done by Turkey nor a single sentence of condemnation and disapproval for the cancellation of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey and also...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u328	You're wrong. I'm interrupting you, but you're wrong. Everyone told the press conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u329	...also the Commissioner responsible for Home Affairs of the European Commission, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u330	You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u331	Dispute from the press conference the Commissioner responsible...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u332	Please! Everyone has his opinion and anyone who disagrees does not mean that he is given the floor. Please warmly! This is no longer the case today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u333	But it's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u334	Oh, no! You should say that when you talk. Alas, everyone answering the other. It's the first time. Please, you don't have the floor. Complete, Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u335	If you have any further information, please inform the House. I say that the Commissioner responsible for Home Affairs said that he has never received a request from the Greek Government to trigger a refugee relocation system. From that moment on, if you want to disobey her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Levane, you will only take the floor for a minute. It does not mean that each parliamentary representative should be constantly given the floor to answer. Here there was a placement of Mr Lebanese to whom he had to answer. In the rest, Mr. Villardus will have the floor when his turn comes to speak for six minutes and be placed on the particular thing I have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u338	But for a minute, I wanted to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u339	One minute, one minute, the other, it doesn't end up. Mr. Levant, finish in just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. Just for a minute. It is clear that I would never come to this room to spark a split under my political position. I have had to respond to what I have heard from the SYRIZA Members and, of course, I must also give answers to what is said outside this Chamber, and I still think - I am sorry - that a historic newspaper, such as 'AUGI', wrote on its front page. But let's find these with your paper. We are not going to enter this dialogue because I was placed before. You've seen all of what I told you, because we never talk without evidence. I did the same thing over the Step before. Only one question for the next speakers coming from SYRIZA. You said - and we welcome you in this logic - that you are in favour of the closure of the borders and, indeed, that is the position which almost all of the Greek people support. But tell us, are you also in favour of this decision which we took by Act of Legislative Content to suspend for a month of asylum performance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u341	No, of course not. That's a violation of her...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u342	Come and tell us about this, and, above all, address the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u343	Well, so Mr. Villard doesn't complain for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u344	Mr. President. I have asked for the floor on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u345	There wasn't any personal. The staff I judge and I have not seen any staff nor anyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u346	"Police" he said. Isn't it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u347	Please! Mr. Villard, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, you know that I am never interrupted and I am never interfering. That's not my character, and I don't want it. It is only when this whole debate is held and when Mr Lebanon is constantly referring to us, it is not the first time, it is constantly doing so lately. When the President of the Greek Solution always comes out and says a number of things from the benches that are not right, it is therefore logical that someone should answer. He said, therefore, that the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, submitted a post of the "FINANCIAL TIMES" and is a make news because he is from 2016. But it doesn't change anything if it's from 2016 or if it's from today. He also said if we all agree with what the President or any of us say. Obviously, we agree. We are not a broken party, like its own, or any other party. What each one of us says has agreed to and obviously agrees with everyone else. Also, we see that it constantly takes the slogans of the Greek Solution, the New Democracy program and copy everything. It's good. We are interested in Greece, but at least it does it properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u350	Mr Polakis, you have the floor for a minute, and you have to tell the staff at all times. I too heard the 'polluterism'. Now you reminded me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u351	I will overcome the devaluation reports you made during your speech, by perverting your speech with references to my name - I can do so with you, in a much worse way - but I will address three specific questions to you: Firstly, when did the Greek Government ask for the relocation and sharing of refugees? Bring the paper. Secondly, what is the practical measure of condemnation and ratification against the enemy, which is Turkey, is not refugees and immigrants, the intimidated, is Erdogan's Turkey that brings them and works for them. Tell me a measure of sanction and punishment that your government has achieved these days, which is being done with all the moves you have made. It's very nice to go through with the chopper, except that Mr. Antonar - from your party comes from, former government representative Karamanlis - said that - and disprove that, I didn't say so, Paulakis didn't say so...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u352	Close, Mr. Polakis. That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u353	Questions are...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u354	You don't have the floor for questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u355	...have agreed that the Heads of Institution will come because Mr. Mitsotakis has committed himself not to request relocation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u356	Well, I'll invite Mr. Booba to Stepma from the Greek Solution...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u357	Let that be heard, Mr President, that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u358	No, Mr. Comrade, your time is up. It wasn't personal at all, nor did you answer the staff. Come on, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u359	Let this be heard, Mr President. He did not ask for a relocation programme and he would not ask for a summit. Tell us, show us the one penalty!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u360	Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u361	'Cause all I've seen is what Harry Clin said many years ago, "Boy, man, and they're gargoy," only that's what I've seen as a result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u362	Mr. Boobas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, so far all the governments have committed their hands to self-government, and now they are binding on her legs and I will explain it immediately. But before I go to that, because I have been provoked by Mr Lebanese and I would like to remind him of some other things that Velopoulos has said, because he is well known for many years since 1996, along with journalist Velopoulos, I would like to refer to Rhodopoli. Rhodopoli is in a social explosion today and there is a ramification against the people there, without questioning the three decisions of the municipal council. And what we are discussing today is also relevant to this issue, because that Law 4555/2018 passed by SYRIZA, paragraph 8, was for the referendums. So there comes the legislator instantly and says that the referendums on national and top security issues will be excluded, immigration policy issues, undignification, and the question of requisition has escaped him. That is why the New Democracy is coming today and deferring the referendum for six months. Because the order won't ask local communities. The municipality is not something abstract, it is a composition of people, it is the church of the municipality, it is a Municipality of Trikcaion, the Municipality of Seraia, the Municipality of Ioannites, the Municipality of Lamies. And I have a lot of self-government in New Democracy with parchment. It's Mr. Hatzidakis, it's Mr. Kotrias, it's Mr. Snowides, mayors with self-government experience, and I waited as mentors in the New Democracy - they certainly have to discipline ideologically and partisanly - and for the good of the government - you should, gentlemen - react. Forty-five cents will continue, direct assignments and partitions. And I ask: why does the government not dare as a follow-up to the state that is degrading the municipal councils, making the former presidents of the communities unbelievable, so that they have no say and view - it gives the mayor responsibilities where he tends to become Cretan and authoritarian? The quality of life committee has given the committees great powers since the autumn. The quality of life committee will be the one to decide on the transport system in the municipalities, without asking the other bodies. And if the mayor wants, he'll bring economic issues to the city council. And as for the agronomisations you open the donor ferry, open the ferry now for anonymous companies, international company to say so, to come to make development planning. We had "COLICARATRIA", we had "CLITHENI", come Law 4555, the second "CLITHENIS", with 286 articles to upgrade self-government. Where are the gentlemen of the government and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who have been held up by traffic charges? Where is the beer tax that would be given to self-government, so that the mayor would not be a "coffee" but a substantial commander? But you are afraid, because this will give the municipalities social and economic authority and will cease to be party volunteers for the next step, give the mayor or the dire mayor because he is ours. Where did EAPTA go, where did SATA go that changed codes? Do you want examples? Money came from the European Union to inform the municipalities about the uncontrolled collection of waste, and the money went elsewhere. Money came from the European Union to have water quality control, and the money went elsewhere. The irregularities and the dismantling of public money in self-government are known. The point is that the two months will go hand in hand with vote and there will be the photographic SAEP. Because, you know, now that the new mayors have come out, within a few hours - so that nobody gets it news - they got their purely legal counsellors, old - to have, he says, experience - and left out the new kids. And then we say Brain Drain and the others, that we will give opportunities. What do you want from her, gentlemen, to the second degree, decentralised and heresy? What is the role of decentralised? Do you think when there's no crossing a topic for spatial planning and overcoming the "string through the engagement", he goes to the heresy and gets a signature? Don't you know that? What is the role of the decentralised and what is the heretic? Can't the first and second degrees of local government work together? There are a lot of black spots in self-government, but we don't want to give it money so that you don't have the local communities to decide. What does Law 4555 say about the referendum? Or two-thirds of the municipal council will bring this or 10% of the municipality registered. Is it possible today that the people of Rhodopolitan in the majority and at any other point have no say and view in the church of the municipality, according to 'KLITHEN'? This is where you twist the story. Klistheis upgraded the municipality, the son of Megalis, who was the leader of the middle class, to hit Jason. Take a look at the story! He made the triplets. And from there it upgraded the municipalities where the municipality in the 6th century BC. - please to Cleisthenes - he had a larger entity than the House had. I come to you, Mr. Levane. Did you play with fire in 2012, when Velopoulos reacted to the three islands of Strongyli, the island of Ro and Megisti, which is its Greek name and not against the Venetian Kastelloizo, where we ten MPs signed today? Why do you not delimit the exclusive economic zone? I don't want to talk about the press. Did you react to Article 5 when we ratified the NATO Treaty? What he says - he knows that too! - Article 5? It says that when a country that is a member of the North Atlantic Alliance is threatened by another country that is not, all countries support it. But when both countries, like Greece - Turkey, are members of the North Atlantic Alliance, there is no such obligation. Why don't you talk? I have not heard you say anything about what the Greek Solution tells you. Why were forty tanks carried 'Leopard 2 A4', while they went forward to 'AROS'? And the foreign newspapers wrote it. I didn't see a demonstration of protest against Mrs. Merkel, who visited Erdogan's friend. Why, then, in the occupied and in the pseudo - pseudo - pseudo - pseudo - shame? Let's go a little bit to the other part the Greek Solution tells you about. A militia, an ethnic militia. Here comes the work. You know the National Guards get 280 euros a month to guard camps, but they're considered unemployed? Is it social justice to have the people who love their homeland, regardless of age, not just to take 280 euros, not to be labeled, uninsured, but also to lose the molecules of the OAED unemployed and the OAED privileges? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's a lot of what the Greek Solution tells you and they're waiting for answers, because we're talking, like the subtle dam, we're talking about walls in Mexico, and you're telling us we're the extremists and the racists. It's on Greek soil five, six meters in. We made a lot of mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u364	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u365	I shall conclude, Mr President. And can I tell you something? In an emergency, you'll see if the border is actually guarded. Now they're guarding the border. I fear that it will be the diversion and the only hope that Erdogan will be pressed - that is my personal appreciation - that is from the tour operators and from the tourist hoteliers on the coasts of Asia Minor who will lose out of the fact that tourism is affected. The Greek solution tells you all this. You copy our programme, our positions and our ideological cruising, but as many university teachers say in the programme we have prepared, the biggest mistakes are made in copying. Watch it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u366	Before the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, takes the floor, I will give the floor for five minutes to the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy to explain two amendments to his Ministry. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two amendments. One concerns the provision for the Greek Energy Exchange. This provision clarifies the issues of the organization and operation of the "Greek Energy Exchange Company" and its direct subsidiaries, such as the "Energy Exchange Clearing Company". The aim is to quickly complete the authorisation procedure before the competent RAE authorities and the Securities and Market Commission with a view to launching the energy financial market of L.4425/2016 on 16-3-2020. It was planned for September, and we speed up this process to start trading futures initially only by means of a financial settlement and then by a physical delivery right as of 16 March 2020. This is an action that has been done together with a number of other actions that have been launched in the last four months, so that we can immediately begin the operation of financial products. At the same time, we are moving towards the objective of the permanent reorganisation of the Greek electricity market at the end of June 2020, so that the target model operates. Secondly, we have an amendment to speed up the examination of pending urban affairs. Legislative regulation facilitates the setting-up of the Urban Planning and Dispute Councils and Architecture Councils, in order to examine immediately pending urban applications by citizens. This amendment deals with the difficulties of setting up the above-mentioned councils, as has been seen from the findings of the coordinators of the decentralised administrations. The amendment provides for a lawyer to be able to prove himself directly by the Bar Association for each SYSTEM, and if a lawyer is not appointed by the Bar Association concerned within five working days - this is a legal improvement in relation to the plan submitted, instead of a month it is five working days - then the highest body is legally formed without participation. Secondly, there is the possibility of setting up less than two or even any SYSTEM Council when they are unable to form them. In these cases, a FYROM will be set up with responsibility for more than one regional unit. If a regional unit cannot form the SYSTEM, it will take the decisions of a SYSTEM which will be set up for more than one regional unit. And thirdly, for the establishment of architectural councils in cases where there is no architect's mechanism in the relevant building service, an official of a municipality of the regional unit specialising in an architect may be appointed instead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr. Thomas. I call on the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, may I ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Scandalidis, please wait. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u371	Minister, I want to ask you two questions. One question is how long you have been writing these amendments you have brought them to us in the bill of local government, for the energy stock exchange and for the councils, the SYPOTHA and the architecture, so that we too can respond as we should, in relation to the last minute's amendments. The second is, if you know that lawyers designate representatives but that people are not paid, and we do not see in the amendment that you have provided for remuneration, simply the participation of a lawyer from local lawyers who also provides a guarantee of transparency in the functioning of these agencies. You do not ensure that, because you have not predicted funds to the decentralised in order to be paid. You're just predicting, if the lawyers don't answer within five days, that the secretary of the decentralized association put someone else in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u372	He's a co-ordinator.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u373	Coordinator, even worse. Mr. Kegeroglu is right. And the third, which is also important, are you saying in the absence of architects of diplomats - we did not hear it well - what is expected to enter the architecture board?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u374	Minister, answer soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u375	Thank you very much. It is true that the amendment does not provide for remuneration. The same system is still in existence, by which the Bar Association is able to direct a lawyer for this procedure. Where a lawyer is not appointed by the lawyer concerned within five working days of the parole of the co-ordinator’s convening, the higher body shall be constituted lawfully without the participation thereof. As far as the architectural councils are concerned, what we have said is that when there is no architect in the building service concerned, it can be designated for the same work as an official of the municipality of the relevant regional unit or other body in the wider public sector that specialises in an architect. This amendment has come urgently because of a congestion caused by these councils across the country and many building permits are pending. As far as the amendment to the energy stock exchange is concerned, there has been a great effort to make decisions on the target model more quickly and to create the derivatives market for the opening stock exchange from September in March and these small improvements need to be made so that decisions from the RAE and the Securities and Market Committee are quickly taken. The Commission has done an excellent job, which had to be approved at European level by ESMA. One procedure that the Securities and Markets Committee was planning to take over for more than six months, and it was approved by the European Securities and Markets Supervisory Agency in four months' time. With this small amendment we can ensure that financial products start from 16 March 2020. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Bored, now you're in, I know. You'll be waiting. Mr Scandalidis has the floor, who has been invited to speak, as Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u378	I have been watching the debate on the relevant bill for many hours, and I wonder if the climate of national consensus and consensus, which seems to exist with various variations these days, has been imposed by the facts and can be a hope that this place can find a field of understanding or is a timely one? And I am very afraid that the debate shows me that this climate is very short and that it is not really a structural element of the necessary national strategy. If there is one side that has been talking for years about national consensus and national consensus, it is our side. And it says so regardless of the circumstances. When we are watching - we are not sad - to imitate, to repeat our proposals, to adopt our positions and at any time to try to delete or to write down or rewrite the story, and again we strive to give another dimension to this National Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has entered a dramatic juncture. We are used to talking about a time of threats and challenges. Today, unfortunately, the balance between threats and challenges is dramatically moving towards threats. Greek-Turkish, immigration-refugee, developments in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East in relation to the escalation that Ankara is trying to make in the context of its review expansion are already an explosive mixture. The country urgently needs not a return to an undetermined normality that we all mix without often comprehending why we say it, but from a new narrative, a promotional national line that will allow for a real geostrategic upgrade, which is now a matter of survival and development for the next few decades. It is an upgrade in the region, ensuring and unreservedly sovereign rights in Europe, returning to the centre of European developments as a protagonist and not as a demand and a parity and, of course, to economic competition that requires strong economy and rapid growth and, above all, internal reconstruction. I would like to make three comments on each of them, because the latter concerns the bill we are debating today. As regards immigration and refugee, you must not forget that two to three days ago the climate was different when we lived in the tragedy of the non-existence of a policy which was linked to the conflict on the islands of the eastern Aegean and even an unreasonable conflict, which led to very sad conclusions about the possibility of the government checking things out. We have lived through this whole tragedy and I would say that the way Erdogan and his expansionist policy worked has enabled us at least to wake up from a bad dream. Of course I have to say that, while the government was now foreign to the problem, with the decisions that had to be made, with the sounds - leave to individual policies, it finally found itself in the protection of borders and in the prevention of a policy that has been articulated these days, and we welcome this policy, because we believe it is necessary. We hope that this policy is not a short-term one, but that it is a policy that, for the next few months and years, will be a guideline. I am saying this because I am very afraid that these transitional periods of one month, six months, together with the European Union's inability to draw up a specific policy on the subject, may eventually lead to a overthrow of it and make this line converging. We will strengthen every political choice that relates to the country having a real border protection strategy as a European border. Of course, I can see that this is a chance again on television to develop the controversy over the reactionary reflexes, but also about the fucking thing about these issues, the big ones, by the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff, in a persistent controversy of views, who did what was good and who was bad, at a time when the country did not really have immigration and refugee policy. So I am reading the articles and the analyses, and today I see that Mr Tsipras - he says - is imitating PASOK, he is talking about borders, while the New Democracy is talking about border protection, does not miss an opportunity to speak about a policy which, in fact, could lead to the integration of migrants and all of this again around an ideological confrontation on the issue, which does not lead anywhere and is deadlocked. Where will this policy be judged? And that's the second point. You know what the field is, it's Europe. We cannot continue to say 'We will propose, we will press, we will convince'. It is time for European decisions. We have European institutions in front of us. They will also meet in the next six months of the European Union. This time is very critical and you know it well. We are very nice to bring the Heads of Institutions here, and their statements and images. This picture was, in fact, positive for the country, and it came to offset the image of decline and division, which appeared a few days ago in Chios. So this picture is positive. Is that enough? Suffice us to swear on the joint declaration of Europe with Turkey, which was filled with gaps relating to our own protection? Suffice to say that we are going to ask Europeans to join a meeting? Oh, no. Europe must become specific in its institutions, in its legislation, in its agreements, in its signatures. The solidarity and Community assistance clause for the protection of the European borders must become a leading player in the policy that is currently underway and which is to be attempted, because it is beginning to wake up some sense in the European area for Europe's common foreign and defence policy for the years to come. And it's not just the Aegean or the AOZ. It is the Middle East, the absence of a powerless Europe against players who are today playing again the redistribution of strategic planning and arrangements to be made in the wider area of our own interests. Here too we will be indicted if we need the veto and whatever we have at our disposal, not rhetoric, but we will be placed on the substance of the big issue. I come to the third which is the internal condition. They do not do this without a strong country, with institutions that operate, without a country that can stand on its feet and without internal reconstruction and reconstruction. I am thinking of what the Prime Minister said before the elections that, once the government takes over, power will go to the municipalities and to the regions and immediately the property tax will go to the municipalities to be able to stand on their feet, to analyse the constituencies and exclusive powers - Mr Hatzidakis is here and knows how many years I have struggled for them - and to give a new dimension to the reforms that, unfortunately or fortunately, PASOK has done, you disagreed and, in any case, you are now supporting them. You're right. Is this the law and the one that preceded the great reform of self-government? You're saying he's coming in the future? What future? It's a gonatogram, you wrote it on your knees. It is not possible at the current juncture to have such a serious institutional bill and simply to settle problems in the way you have gone to settle the final state, i.e. anxiocracy and gifts. Not that the mayors are not right to claim for themselves things that are really unfair to them, but they do not want - I imagine - and mayors simply a gift from the government, even if that is to be given to them, an act that some, indeed, can vindicate them, because they are unfairly gone to the courts, but we would like to claim to change the internal organization of self-government in such a way that there is a real change in the state. And I ask: The law that you have brought to the final state, which all goes through to a few hundred people around the Prime Minister, who effectively abolishes the ministers, who actually have no contact with the decentralisation of powers, these laws that bypass the ASP and any other thing we have so far voted on, and self-government comes as a follow-up and so is repeated here. That's the bill you brought, a gonatogram. We do not react because some of them are not right and we will not vote on them. We'll vote for them. But we are reacting because it does not add anything to the institutional change and it does not have any reformist breath, no reformist capacity, no reformist dynamics, and quite rightly a colleague said before. We have here mayors who have become MPs and who know very well how this institution works to believe that what we are going to vote on today solves problems of self-government. It solves problems of power in the party state, it is very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u379	And the mayors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u380	And the mayors. So I would also like to be clear here that it is not a reconstruction step. It's a continuation of a political self-sufficient mind that caressssssssssssss. You do not need committees here to re-analysis of responsibilities. They have been made several times, there have been records, studies have been carried out. Here we have come governments to vote again for laws that we have passed, because they have not been read by the ministers in the name of the state's uninterruptedness. How many times, Mr Hatzidakis, have you not seen a law which repeats things that were voted on and has not been implemented because it required presidential decrees and ministerial decisions that have never been taken and have never been signed? If that's what you think it's worth voting on, vote on it. We cannot vote for it. Here's something to be done, ladies and gentlemen. It goes without saying that now after the elections there are two parties, there is the New Democracy, a sovereign power with hegemony characteristics in a society that is conservative, and there is a SYRIZA who managed to stand on his feet and become a majority in the future on the left, the logic that they have with them. If the people we have don't fit for the wider context of the country, the dramatic juncture of the country, there is a gap. This gap can only be covered by the patriotic democratic component of the major reforms, that is, a successor to a new era.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u381	He has asked for the floor on staff, which, in fact, was mentioned in his absence, Mr. Bored. Monsieur Baroness, you have the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, I don't have to explain that, just so I don't have to take too much time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u383	Please specify why a document has been lodged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u384	The parliamentary representative of the New Democracy and my compatriot, Mr Lebanese, referred to something. However, because I believe that there are no distortions in this Chamber to create cheap impressions, I would like to say exactly what I said this morning. What I said, Mr Levane, is that a leading journalist in Thrace made a revelation produced by the newspaper 'Kathimerini', Mr. Paschos Mandravelis, whom no one can easily join with SYRIZA's friends. So he said that the ones who scream at the shotguns - and they broadcast images of these to us on the TVs - on Evros, they own arbitrary houses in the wilderness of Evros. I will not go into the rest of the extreme right elements of the extreme right-wing habitat, but that is all I have to say. That's what I said, Mr. Levane. If you want to identify with these extremes, you can do it. If you also want to cultivate the impression that you will deal with Turkish immunity with such initiatives, you can do so. Also, if you want to cultivate false impressions that with this cheap tsambouka you are offering something good in the country at this critical moment, I would say that you should not do it and do something more responsible, not in the easy ways, to prepare the country when the difficult ones are coming, Mr Levanne.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u386	Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u387	I will not answer the second part because it obviously has nothing to do with the staff. We have been talking for so long, and we are also talking outside this House about these issues. What I said and put it in the Minutes is that Mr. Bored, whom I honor and we are fighting together for the good of Atolokarnania, and there is no doubt, he said specific things that are inside introductorys, have been notified in all the media, I took it from the Internet. If Mr. Boredis wants to disprove the website, which hosts his so-called statements, that is his right. I just tabled what seems to be and I am glad that you do not adopt it in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u389	Monsieur Baroness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u390	...I didn't add that the reporter said that unfortunately the Prime Minister took a picture of these people. I didn't say that. I hope...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u391	I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u392	You didn't say that. I hope it didn't happen, because if it happened, it's not the best. Don't complain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u393	Before I give the floor to Mr Mamoulakis, Mr Gikas and to Mr Zeblis, whom I announce that they will be next, for a little while, Mrs Mendoni - it will make it easier for the Minister to intervene - to take the floor to explain some of the amendments, such as the general number 219 and a specialist 42. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the amendment to which the President has just referred and that is Article 92 in the draft law. To some extent, the second part of the amendment and Article 92 are similar, in that both relate to the central advisory bodies of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, namely the Central Archaeological Council, the Central Council of New Monuments and the Museum Council. In accordance with the archaeological law under Articles 50 and 51 of Law 3028/2002, the Heads of the Ministry’s Directorates-General are involved in the Central Advisory Councils. Under Article 109(1) of Law 4622/2019, that is to say, the final State, the Heads of Directorates-General of the Ministries are responsible for the final signature of each individual administrative act on matters falling within the competence of the departments to which they are head. It is obvious - and it is established by Article 7 of Law 2690/1999 - that it is not possible to reconcile the status of the opinion and the decision-making body. Subsequently, the Ministry of Culture calls for the replacement of the Directors of Antiquities, Restorations, Museums and Technical Projects and the Director-General for Cultural Development by the advisory bodies, since it is not possible - there is incompatibility - someone who can give an opinion on himself. The second part of the amendment concerns the transfer of the regular staff of the public institutions under the name 'Eupidis Koutlidis Foundation' to the Legal Personnel of Public Law National Gallery - Alexandros Soutsos Museum in a vacant organic position corresponding to the formal qualifications it holds and the duties that that staff performs for the obvious proper functioning of the National Gallery. The payroll of this staff will be covered by the budget, i.e. the appropriations of the National Gallery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, too, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u397	Thank you. Mr. Spirtzi, would you like to ask something? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u398	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture a few questions. The first is, if according to what you said, the decisions of the CAS so far are invalid and the participation of the rest, of the Council of New Monuments and Museums in your reasoning, that those that were proposed, namely the directors-general, participated. If this amendment relates to the fact that these general directors disagreed with what the Prime Minister announced, the unacceptable ones from the step of the Thessaloniki Exhibition, as you one day before the Central Archaeological Council for the decision of the Central Archaeological Council on the ancient metro of Thessaloniki at Venizelos Station. It's never happened before. They at least kept the pretexts, Mrs. Mendoni. The third thing I would like to ask you is that we have other provisions and amendments in place, such as an amendment concerning the National Garden and Phillip. I would therefore like to ask you, if you have informed the Ministry of Interior, which brings in this amendment, that the Flemish Hill is an organized archaeological site by decision of the Ministry of Culture 2008 on Michael Liapi, rather than a dogmatic SYRIZA, and if you have had a debate with the City Council of Athens and if you have asked the Municipality of Athens to become this anonymous company that will manage its property, and thirdly, which is also important - and I imagine you have this sensitivity - for Philippi who is an integrated archaeological site. How is it entrusted to an anonymous company and not to the Ministry of Culture or to a legal person governed by public law illegally, outside the archaeological law, the public limited company of the Municipality of Athens, the archaeological single area of Philippi? I would really like you to answer these questions, so that we can also draw safe conclusions on what is going on. And the last thing I would like to say, Mr President - and I address you and the government - is that Mr Gerapetti should come to the Chamber for a minute and tell us how the law which has been tabled and passed on 5 August on good law is applicable. We call, please, for Mr Gerapetti to come and tell us even a paragraph of the law of the state of staff on the good law that is being applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u399	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer Mr Spirtzi's questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u400	On the first question, whether the opinions of the central councils are void, they are not void for a simple reason. By February 8 of the law, the council was consulted and the Minister signed the decisions resulting from the opinions. In the medium term, there is a special arrangement which has been made and considers that the Minister may continue to sign the decisions on opinions given by the directors-general for a period. From there on, in the councils which are then being held, it is clear that I have already sent decisions to be signed with the relevant directors, because they are no longer covered by the scope of the regulation and it is clear that among the directors that are actually excluded from the board, it is also the Director-General for Cultural Development who, of course, has no relationship with the metro and could have this article and this amendment be applied and applied regardless of who the Directors-General are. It has nothing to do with whether the advisory body is identical to the decisive, how they gave their opinion on the subject of the metro of Thessaloniki or on many other occasions. This is a typical issue. It's not possible. There's a conflict of laws. He who gives his opinion must give an opinion to a third party rather than to himself. It's very simple. It's two articles of two very specific laws. Now in relation to the National Garden and Philippi. The amendment that comes concerns management. As you have suggested, it is not signed by the Minister for Culture. I haven't signed it. This does not mean, however, that there is a problem, because the main issues of cleanliness relating in particular to the management company were not the Ministry of Culture. You know very well that there are many unpleasant incidents going on in Philippa, culminating in the death of young Nicola two and a half years ago and nothing changes to the status of the National Garden and of Philippi in relation to Law 3028/2002. The fact that a company manages does not mean that this site loses its character either as a historic site or as an archaeological site.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u401	It's forbidden, Mrs. Mendoni. You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u402	You asked, answers were given, and I call Mr Mamulaki, a SYRIZA Member. You will vote in your opinion. Now there's nothing else. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u403	If Mrs Mendoni doesn't know, it's like I don't know the public procurement law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u404	Mrs. Mendoni doesn't want any further dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u405	Philippi, the Municipality of Athens has him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u406	Yeah, but I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u407	There's no need for dialogue. Mr Mamulakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u408	It seems that Philippos from Syria, a well-known Roman occupant, has become a cause for today’s debate. I think there's a lot of carmic circumstances, Minister. This is what happens - and I refer to my colleague and colleague Christos Spirtzi - Mrs Mendonis, when political decisions are taken without rationality, without a methodicity and an interaction between you on a ministerial and self-government level, because it seems that the Municipality of Athens is moving forward, and then you come to cover any legislative steadfastness. While I intended, first of all, to raise the issue of the bill itself, I will make a small point on the amendments which have been put to our attention just now, one of the Minister for the famous issue of archaeological sites which really makes us impression, but also on Article 42. It happens, you know, that I have been - and I am honoured - a member of the FYROM, the Board of Urban Affairs and Disputes. It is tragic - and I would like to stress this, although Mr Thomas has left the Chamber - that he does not allow the legal association concerned to be represented but is drastically limited to five days from the fact that it was a month initially and then the coordinator of the decentralised group goes ahead. That is what I think is a matter of transparency. I know, in fact, as a member of the FYROM, that the lawmaker always offers the greatest for both the institutional and legal shield of any decision taken by the Council but also for the general proper functioning of the Council. I should also like to put something that, in our view, is very important. He was referred to by Minister Thomas. It is not possible to transfer responsibility, where there is no possibility of quorum, to a relevant IP. They do not know the issues on the one hand and, on the other, there is a risk that they will be void. Now we are going to the draft law with the euphoric title: "The strategic development perspective of local government bodies". Basically, it should be referred to ‘and heirly arrangements’. Anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that all of us in this Chamber agree on two basic and fundamental acquisitions in the previous years. The institution of the AACC and the system of public open competitions. I think that they are two of the greatest conquests that defend democracy and transparency at the place, and that on the contrary they leave open windows that allow customer logic to be restored to the functioning of local self-government in the worst way, with what you are planning. But let's start over and explain. The main part of this bill is the supposedly strengthening of the development functions of the municipalities through the creation of the development agencies as a model for the development companies of the LAG. What is the problem that the legislator claims to be trying to deal with? That municipalities and technical services due to their extreme subsidization -'strain dehydration', we call it after ten years of a Memorandum Crisis - find it difficult to carry out their work, which is no more than the maturation of the technical works that are of course necessary for societies. The reality, of course, is more complex. ‘KALIKRATS’ and the subsequent TAT mergers have created two speed municipalities. The small municipalities that are truly under-represented and have a great difficulty in mature projects, and the large ones who have in practice the management adequacy typically and substantially. With the proper management of the Public Investment Programme - and to your credit the "Philodimos" - as well as the absorption of the NRP of the previous government, today as the explanatory memorandum to the Act - and to your credit - states, there is a large number of financial instruments for local government bodies. At the same time, however, there are often complaints about the extent to which Community funds are absorbed because of the difficulty, in particular, of smaller municipalities in absorbing them. How did the SYRIZA government respond to this problem? Through strengthening the administrative support of the small municipalities for submitting proposals to the NRP that you are abolishing. But this is on a short-term basis. Above all, the problem would be tackled through the institutionalisation of the recruitment of the public of reasoning one by one in order to meet the needs, shortages in bodies such as the OTAs on a medium-term basis. In SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we wanted to address the weaknesses of the TATS through the reinforcement of the TATS. How does the New Democracy respond to the same problems? First it freezes rule one by one, supposedly for budgetary reasons, within the budgetary adequacy that we have offered. It then transfers all functions that the public - hard, if you want to express, public - to the first degree of local self-government, to the newly established more developmental organisations and finally, invoking the public interest, with a completely unfounded legal argument, relieves the new operators of the obligation to recruit staff through ADP. With this in mind, Mr Theodorikos, I think 90% of the Local Governments are going back to 1911, when Eleftherios Venizelos had to come to ensure permanentity in the public sector. Congratulations! But what will these new agencies do, which the development companies could not do? To date, these bodies have matured studying and helped the OTAs to draft proposals and plans. From now on, they undertake as management intermediaries and management common authorities, while at the same time they are excluded from the obligation of Community law to open public tenders for studies. However, since 90% of the municipalities do not have sufficiently staffed technical services, so the studies of new projects will be carried out by direct assignments throughout the territory. Obviously, the Ministry's political leadership itself, in so far as it controls the flow of these funds, will be able to impose on the mayors of its position on a nationwide scale. So, has DG GROW asked about this intent? Have you received an opinion from EFSA - has Mr Lebanese said that there is, we expect to see it in practice - where the Community directive on public procurement applies correctly with these direct awards? Do you know that with the blackmailing dilemma you are putting in the development companies, there is a risk of losing close to half a billion euros of integrated projects in Leader and other smaller European programmes? We're recapitulating. The mayors will nominate the leadership of the new authorities, and they will in turn appoint whoever they desire without the control of the relevant municipal councils you remove. The new bodies will make direct assignments to any mayor or Minister who considers his choice to be a scholar, and this will be about the vast majority of the projects throughout the territory. As if that were not enough, Article 5 gives the possibility of transporting and building competence to the development agencies, which the Constitution explicitly provides that they are exercised exclusively by the harsh public. Imagine that. A scholar finds it hard to get permission for illegal construction. The following day he is appointed by the mayor as a building officer and approves his application. Ladies and gentlemen, on many of the issues I have just mentioned, SYRIZA has tabled amendments that improve this draft law and shield OTAs from the bad management orgy that we will find in front of us. We hope they will be received. Otherwise local government is threatened with a tsunami transaction policy, which will be borne by the Minister personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u410	Here you go, Mr. Levanie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u411	Regarding what Mr Mamulakis said, there is no misunderstanding, as you can read in the provisions of the law - the studies are done with the provisions of Law 4412/2016. There's no direct assignments, there's nothing about them. Also, as far as staff are concerned, nothing changes from what is currently happening. The permanent staff are through ASPI. The temporary staff, and today we are talking without this law, are excluded from the AACC, are under the supervision of the AACC as provided for in the ministerial decision stating the relevant provision. Let's get this straight. Neither 'Windows' open nor 'doors' open nor anything. The control of the AACC and the sovereignty exist and will exist. It is a necessary section, as you quite rightly said, to increase the absorption of projects and actually to strengthen the small towns in need. Because a low absorption will give us smaller money in the next programming period. That's why we need to speed up as quickly as we can, so that we can get better absorption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u412	Mr Stefanos Gikas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with a comment. In attending these days, but also today, statements by Members of the Civilian opposition - I would say certain Members, such as Mr Borders, Mr Famellos - show that not only do they contribute to the creation of a climate of arrogant national front, but they are barely sowing up a dissatisfaction. I think that in these difficult hours our country is spending, such practices do not serve the national interest. The Qualified Opposition is all it continues to say: 'Why is no special summit convened?' But, just two days ago, the leadership of the European Union, the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Council, Mr Plenkovic, the Prime Minister of the President-in-Office of Croatia, was here. Yesterday there was an extraordinary meeting of the European Union Ministers for Home Affairs and Immigration. Tomorrow it becomes the special Council of Foreign Ministers, and in nineteen days from now the summit is held. I do not think that is an argument that the opposition should always say. However, I am coming to the point of view. This bill is an important piece of legislation, and I will congratulate the Minister and his staff, because it actually regulates some bad texts in local government and makes it considerably easier in some situations. I should like to begin with a request, which was a unanimous request from all three of the Members of Corfu, that a repetitive election be held for a community that did not elect a local council. Of course, it is also regulated for other communities throughout the territory. Refers to Article 12(8). There is therefore the possibility of repeated elections, so that some villages, large communities, have their own local council that, for typical reasons, were cancelled and, of course, could deal with their place. A very important provision is the creation of the Local Government Development Institutions. I think we have heard everyone say that 'this mayor is very good, because he is making use of European funds and funding instruments'. Or "this republic. " With the establishment of the Local Government Development Agency, it is precisely possible for municipalities, regions to exploit these financial instruments, either the NSRF or others, in order to bring additional development to their place. It is important - and I would like to stress this - that the municipalities or regions are able to conclude programme contracts with technical services of the EBRD, the Hellenic Society for Technical Development and Government, so that, with these contracts, small municipalities or municipalities which have deficits in their technical service, can actually carry out studies which will, of course, contribute to the development of the site. Another provision which is very important is the procedure for the difficult parties. It is very important - in my own constituency we have the intersectional islands, for example - that the "Prevention at Home" programme allows the rural doctor to go to the patient's home, examine him, take the tests and send them electronically to contracted doctors so that there is a direct response to his treatment. It's something very important. In addition, this bill enables municipalities to take the necessary equipment as well. I repeat that it helps regions like our case, the overseas islands. Another very important point is the possibility given until 2022 at the moment to some municipalities - one of them is the Municipality of Central Corfu - to solve the housing problem they have with the school roof. It is right that, by way of derogation from the ordinary procedure, they may be leased by direct assignment of buildings to solve the problem of housing, whether for infants or for primary and secondary schools, primary and high school, that is to say high school. In fact, this possibility is given until 2022. Also important is the fact that residents of abroad are being facilitated in the civil service, because consulates are being given the opportunity to link themselves to the Civil Registry to serve Greek citizens abroad in a much better way. Finally, I want to say this. Emergency measures shall be taken in the emergency situations. That is why we see these amendments which come in this way in order to solve the major problems that the current crisis has brought to the migration - refugee. I therefore believe that the amendment of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum with all these procedures for the administration of the Ministry, for the direct award procedures to create the centres, etc., and also the amendment on citizenship for which, of all things, it is positive to increase the time required for the country to stay from the three to seven years, so that a refugee can now apply for naturalisation. In these words, I think this bill is in the positive direction, it serves the national interest, and I therefore ask you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u414	May I call the New Democracy MP, Mr. Zebble Athanasio, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u415	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law may not constitute an incision to self-government, as has been said, but we must admit that it responds strategically and holisticly to the issue of municipal development. Thus, this is a highly technocratic piece of legislation that seeks practical solutions and introduces innovative tools to strengthen the investment role of the municipalities to absorb European resources, contributing to the titanic effort of the Government to relaunch the national economy. However, at this critical time the technical services of most municipalities are anaemic and subordinated because of the well-known budgetary constraints, so that they are unable to perform their role. And as if this were not enough, the previous government with Law 4440/2016 on mobility abolished the mayor's assent as a precondition for the transfer of personnel, so that engineers would leave and the technical services of the small, remote, mountainous and island municipalities would be dissolved. The District Governor of South Aegean described in his letter the desperation that the island municipalities have come from the dissolution of technical services, at a time when they have many works to perform. Similar problems with the island area are the mountainous and inappropriate municipalities. I will mention the example of the Municipality of Agraphon, where four engineers were serving, and today there is not one. They all left with the law of Gerovali, incidentally, in the election year 2019. And at this point, because the majority rapporteur has called into question this information to the committee responsible, we are presenting for the Minutes the Vegetables for their transfer to other bodies, the First Engineer's Vegetable FE, the Second Engineer's FEK, the Third Engineer's FEK, the Fourth Engineer's FEK. All those with the law of Gerovas, symptoms, during the salvage and election year 2019. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Zebplis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also present the minutes of the Central Greece Regional Council, which met to adopt a programme contract with the Municipality of Agrafis in order to provide technical assistance. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Zebplis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] It is characteristic that at the meeting the workers' association presented a protest, rejecting the possibility of a transition to the Agravia. And the nicest thing is that the party that SYRIZA supported in regional elections took his side and voted against technical assistance. Refusal to the regional council, refusal here today too. And what this town will do, which, not only because of you, cannot close a lacquer or build a sidewalk, but not even, of course, buy a rocket. These were the provisions of the previous government for the small municipalities. Then there are their proposals for today. Truly, what does it mean not to carry out projects in the small mountains and island cities in a country that wants to retain its population in the region? We are all aware of this, as we are all aware, that regional and intra-regional disparities and poor are becoming poorer. I think that as a result of this, we are all aware of the feasibility of this legislation. As things stand, the current government had no room for both majestics and proclamations. He had to deal first with the issue of cyberdynamicity and then the development perspective of TTEs. First of all, with Law 4635/2019, it restored the mayor's assent to the transfer of engineers and substantially amended the provisions on mobility, as it currently does, by interrupting the bleeding to the technical staff of the municipalities as well as to the staff of the island municipalities. Furthermore, this draft law seeks to raise the operational development capacity of OTAs by adopting flexible and effective models. Thus, as a temporary and immediate tool, technical assistance from engineers of all specialties through the EBRD is provided, not only for the maturation but also for the monitoring, supervision and receipt of projects. However, since the draft law is based, in particular, on a long-term strategy, it provides as a permanent tool for exploiting tested and successful practice, that of development companies that respect the obligation of transparency and public accountability. Finally, although I had not planned it, I would like to refer to the amendment to the Code of Migration, and congratulate the Government, because this is how the national legislator has been reviewing very promptly the provisions that had been put in long and completely different times since 2010, and adapting them to the current reality. It is, of course, surprising that SYRIZA's negative attitude, both to suspend the provisions of the naturalisation process and, of course, to its attitude in defending the possibility of illegally entering the country of seeking citizenship within three years, when the corresponding right for legal immigrants is seven years. He thus returns to his old acquaintance when he adopted a grid of arrangements, actions and behaviours that made our country friendly and attractive to migration flows. This up to recently could be attributed to an idea of romance. Today, however, things are completely different. The migratory crisis was transformed from neighbor into a heated and cynical blackmail to Greece and through it to the European Union. Turkey is using uncovered thousands of unhappy people as a lever of pressure in order to support the expansionist positions in the Syrian problem. "Today..." - said President Erdogan - "...are thousands. Tomorrow there will be millions of refugees attempting to violate the borders of the European Union." And the question is: why, if it was an spontaneous move, did not even lead a refugee to Bulgaria and his friend Erdogan, Borisov? Today, therefore, no one can claim that he did not know or understood. Instead, we don't have intimidated people. On the contrary, we have a cruel, impeccable and hostile state which is engaged in a specific war with lies and threats. It is a pity that our country has been defending itself by professionalism and self-determination. It defends the heroism of those who have decided to guard the borders of the country. It defends itself with popular unity, with self-consciousness and compassion. In this context, I call on SYRIZA to revise its position, because while in the words it was in favour of sealing the land border in Evros, in practice today it is in favour of provisions that go beyond what, however, are mobilising the violation of the country's borders and rewarding illegal entry. In this way, there is a risk that it will blur the strong national message that our country is a favoured state that does nothing more than self-evidently in the entire civilized world, that is to say to protect its national borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u416	I will now give the floor, as I have already announced, to the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, in order to place it on specific articles contained in the bill. Then, for you to know from now, Mrs. Kefala and Mr. Avramakis will speak. Mr Petsas will then be given the floor, so that he can be put to the vote on a specific amendment. After Mr. Petsa, we will continue with the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that in the last few days on the Evros border but also along the country's eastern maritime borders, an asymmetrical, I would say, provocative action by the neighbour with the Armed Forces and the Security Body, as well as the other national forces to self-sufficiently guard the borders of Greece and Europe. Following the extraordinary convening of the Governing Council for Foreign and Defence on 1 March 2020, the inability of the existing legislative framework to deal adequately with issues in need of rapid response, given their utmost importance in defending public order and security. Our country is called upon to manage at a high level of readiness and efficiency, the strong pressure of immigration, refugee flows that extend along land and sea borders, with direct operational actions to move a large number of staff, supply of goods, as well as any other action required to ensure the public, state and national security of our country. Indicative needs such as: Special operational equipment for the forces of the Greek Police, extraordinary costs of moving, staying and feeding police forces operating both in the wider region of Evros and in the islands of the eastern Aegean, such as the renting of means, catering, fuel, vehicle repairs and a number of other things are required. Also, the execution of priority projects for border guarding, dams, impurities, special fences, as well as the supply of increased logistic equipment, such as thermal cameras, ammunition of all types, tear gas, impact-lamp grenades and a number of other materials that are absolutely necessary to deal with this unprecedented, new form of attack that we are facing at our borders. In addition, the competent services of the Ministry are required to take all measures necessary for the immediate and rapid purchase of sanitary materials, to cover the police workers working in the fights and the administrative services of the Hellenic Police, such as police departments, security departments, foreign-transport services and from their mission, are obliged to contact the citizens or attempt in the areas where there are cases of the krone and the operations on the Greek-Turkish border. With the proposed amendment, the Ministry of Civil Protection is therefore attempting to ensure that, in cases of exceptional and unforeseen needs and only in so far as is strictly necessary, it can conclude contracts derogating from the existing national provisions. This regulation is particularly critical, as the lack of the necessary credits from the special bodies of the Ministry of Civil Protection in order to address these exceptional needs poses serious security issues for the State and citizens, which is, of course, a top priority. It is pointed out that the conclusion of the contracts in question constitutes an exception rather than a rule. The management must carry out the procedures described if it is adequately demonstrated that there is an urgent need due to unforeseen events that do not result from a lack of planning and diligence. These expenditures could in no case have been provided for in both budgeting. and during the preparation phase of supplies, as it is carried out every time for the following year. Finally, the provision for the six-month period of validity of the progressive provision ensures, on the one hand, that it is not misused by the administration and, on the other hand, the principle of legal certainty which arises from the principle of the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u418	And we thank the Secretary-General. I call on the New Democracy MP, Mr. Heads Maria - Alexandra, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation we are debating today is the mirror of the logic of both the Ministry of the Interior and the Government of New Democracy in general, a ministry which, with coordinated steps, is moving towards legislative intervention which is designed, structured and pictured in such a way, which regulates years of issues and distortions of the past with a view to the future. Each provision of this article is part of the government's strategy for modern state and OTA, laying the foundations for a modern local government and public administration, with the ultimate objective always of utility for the citizen, a public sector that recognises the need to modernise it through interventions and changes, so that he also becomes levers for the development of the country, and a local pillar of a balanced development that ensures the social cohesion and quality of life of citizens. In order for local government to play this role, it needs projects that will implement and secure resources, projects that will bring prosperity, new jobs, economic growth and a substantial impact on citizens' lives. We are responding to these needs today. We are clearly aiming at increasing the absorption of funds from the TAs. They are won, in particular, by the small municipalities, the mountains, the isolated ones, the ones facing some difficulties in the leverage of funds. We make it easier for self-government to act more effectively. How do we achieve this? I mention, for example, the time-share economy, since both our rapporteur and the Minister have been closely and successfully mentioned, as follows: Firstly, with the institution of technical assistance, both the management services of the special development programmes of the Ministry of the Interior and the potential beneficiaries of the municipalities, i.e. in order to achieve the implementation of the programmes and maximise the absorption of funds. Secondly, with the establishment of local government agencies that will be a development tool whereby the LAGs will be able to make full use of development programmes for the benefit of local society. Thirdly, with the Local Government Data Register, to know what each municipality has, so that we can draw up more efficient and more targeted development policies. Fourthly, with the support of TA building technical services and services through a programme contract with the Technical Services of the Local Government, the Development Organisations and the Networks of Municipalities, in order to initiate the procedures for the award, award, supervision of public contracts, studies and projects. Fifthly, with the setting up of a local and regional development committee as a top advisory body of the Ministry of Interior with introductory powers. Sixth, by speeding up the procedures for building up and renting pre-school education buildings, in order to meet the needs of all families immediately and without delay. I particularly welcome the establishment of the innovative telemedicine programme called 'Prevention at Home', which is coming to support the inhabitants of mountainous and inappropriate areas, areas that really need it. And I would like to thank the ministers, because it is a proposal I made with other colleagues and assessed by the Ministry as positive. The aim of the project is to carry out fundamental medical examinations at home of the residents of these regions by the staff of the "Home Help" structure belonging to vulnerable population groups and to the automated dispatch of their results to qualified doctors through computer and telecommunications technologies. Our fellow citizens who, in particular, because of age and planning, find it difficult to go to doctors will now gain access, through telemedicine, to an attempt to provide quality medical care services on the part of the state. Each municipality that is part of the "Prevention at Home" programme is awarded annually exclusively to cover the programme with up to EUR 50,000 per five thousand inhabitants, including the cost of supplying all the necessary technology and telecommunications interconnection services. We all realise that for the region of the Ioannina Prefecture, but not just for our mountain villages, this programme is more than useful. It's necessary. Also, the amendments to the Staff Code provide for the granting of a special leave of twenty-two working days to officials suffering from, or having, a spouse or a child suffering from a disease requiring regular blood transfusions or requiring regular hospitalisation, with severe mental discomfort, Down Syndrome and others. In cases where the staff member is entitled to leave for more than one person suffering, she shall be increased to thirty-two days. For the first time, the possibility of an increase in the normal leave by six days is envisaged for officials who have themselves or their children a disability rate of more than 50% and there was no provision in the applicable law, and in this case there is an increase if the conditions are met for more than one person or more trade unions. They are restored in this way to injustices or better to the past, and this is called social welfare. What else is there in this bill? We see with the Minister's interventions speeding up procedures for the mobility of civil servants. The bill provides for the reduction of transition and secondment procedures in two instead of three cycles a year, with specific time frames. Mobility will cover the operational needs of the public services, with the first cycle moving to a front of the annual recruitment programming, while only those actors who have not been able to attract employees from the first cycle will participate in the second cycle. The procedure for examining applicants for transfer or secondment is also simplified and the relevant administrative burdens are reduced. Recruitment procedures shall be accelerated via ASP. Language learning certificates for English, French and German are accepted without having to translate them. Ladies and gentlemen, these interventions are important because they affect or are going to have a positive impact on the daily lives of the citizens. It is these interventions, which show that the state, when it has the political will, can also do what it can do. In closing, let me make a special reference to my place and to two villages in the Prefecture of Ioannina: Zaravina and Ceritsana. Greeks are historically closely connected to sites that come from the past. Their experiential connection is as strong as their names, so it is difficult to accept changes, even though sometimes they are imposed. That is why it is very right, Minister, to accept the change of name and lake of Pogonios in Zarabina and the Platanic Dodeans in Ceritsana. After all, it was a universal request from their inhabitants, but also for those who are attracting their origin from there. My compatriots, Mr. Ministers, thank you to all of you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u420	The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Eleftherios Avramakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the sloppiness with which the government is dealing with the issues of the Greek state, the constant setbacks, the recurring, the recurring corrections to bills, which it itself has brought and voted on, is that the assumption that many provisions, which create problems rather than resolve, must finally be stopped. You are voting for a bill on the so-called state of finality, which you have changed countless times. This draft law follows on from the examples of maladministration of the Government of New Democracy, despite the relevant provisions of the Final Act and the grand proclamations of government officials. It is a string of heteroclical provisions concerning local government, public administration issues, such as mobility and the system of selection of heads, citizenship issues, issues relating to the Ministry of Digital Governance, the Ministry of Culture, etc. It is indicative that the consultation was made less than 1/3 of all the articles contained in the final draft law. Nevertheless, with respect to the institution of local government and in general respect for the parliamentary procedure, SYRIZA has tabled a large number of substantiated proposals and legislative improvements, namely 44 amendments and 18 articles of the bill, and has thus contributed to the realisation of the existing problems of local government. Although the Minister of Interior has accepted a significant number of amendments that we have proposed and a significant number of forecasts, which demonstrates both the validity of our positions on incompatibility with European law and our availability to find real and effective solutions to the problems of local government, the draft law and the provisions on which European law, case law and the objectives and responsibilities of local government are being circumvented. For the part of the draft law concerning local government and public administration, no proposed arrangements have been accepted, which constitute red lines for SYRIZA. For example, we are talking about the most basic of them. In Article 3(5)b, we disagree with the possibility of exercising decisive powers by staff with fixed-term private-law relationships. This will create serious legal consequences, even raising issues of unconstitutionality and possible cancellations in practice of the acts adopted. Article 4 provides for the establishment of technical competence of a service by its Head, while provision is made for the adoption of a joint Ministerial Decision in accordance with Article 44(1) of Law 4412/2016 setting out the conditions and conditions for the determination of the technical adequacy of the services concerned. The impact of this arrangement will be that there are no new rules on technical services that acquire technical competence, that they do not have minimum terms and specifications of technical competence of private companies, studies and constructions to supervise them. Therefore, this will also bring about changes in the substance of the competences of a technical service related to the design, supervision and implementation of a project, so that it cannot respond and be vulnerable to possible actions and administrative acts of technical competence as a result of all the work of the technical service. This in itself will entail a possible suspension of the work of a technical service. In Article 5, the substitutability of the head of the technical service, as well as the building service by the mayor, creates serious and substantial legal problems. A simple example: the mayor will be able, by his own decision, without the assistance of the competent specialised bodies and service actors, to legalise even arbitrary constructions. Paragraph 1 of Article 12 shall be suspended throughout the current municipal and regional period. Is this the view of the majority of its Members on democracy? Paragraph 7 of Article 12 requires the assent of the mayor concerned to implement decisions of the municipal council. The slippery path chosen by the government is continuing with the downgrading of prestige and importance, which is constantly attributed to the institution of municipal councils. Article 9 of Article 12 is problematic, as subjecting the provisions of the integrated recycling centres and the multi-recycling centres, which are not clearly defined conditions, will create ambiguities and malfunctions in the application and suspicion of selective company favor. With regard to public administration, the majority of the majority in Article 45 refuses to amend the provisions of paragraph 1 of the Article, in order for the competent bodies for the selection of officials who have applied for mobility to become more objective and to be able to formulate a more comprehensive view of the essential qualifications. As far as the regulations of the Ministry of Digital Policy are concerned, you maintain a policy not to bring about a single bill for once, but to disperse a number of arrangements in different bills. In addition to showing a lack of confidence with the Minister responsible, your tactics seem to give the impression that you are trying to shape a situation of opacity. The government majority has approved countless committees, subcommittees, contract rights, strange responsibilities for the Minister. You are once again amending provisions which you had voted on for yourself some time ago. You create a legal bureaucratic monster that no one will eventually know what is true unless it goes back to a series of laws, which no one is referring to at the Ministry of Digital Policy. We're no longer talking about a bad piece of legislation. Something you're trying to hide from public opinion with all this bad legacy. As far as the financing of the media and particularly of the forms is concerned, it is so difficult to admit publicly that you are looking for ways to fund the media owners who support you. You have abolished all the conditions laid down by the SYRIZA Government and were intended to prevail transparency and to support democratic pluralism. You are looking to find ways to support publishers who support you and exclude or restrict those who criticise you. As far as the ELTAs are concerned, you really don't care about their luck at all. Much more, you do not care about the fate of ELTA workers, since you allow redundancies, the closure of shops and the withdrawal of practically from critical and modern services offered by ELTAs against the Greek citizen, preferably giving them to friendly businessmen. At the same time as you say that ELTAs are not viable and that it is questionable if they can pay payrolls, you accept the management's decision to make brave increases in their compensation. They decided themselves to increase themselves when people were fired and branches closed down in the region. Everything for the service of party officers. Unfortunately, the New Democracy is shown to be unable to manage the issues of the Greek state every day. This inability is now becoming dangerous, since, in order to impose what you want, you do not hesitate to involve critical institutions of the state and further disrupt the Greek people's confidence in the institutions. The involvement of, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture to impose a closed detention centre in Serres Law is already causing a number of reactions. You promised that you would have a sincere dialogue with local communities a few days ago and now you are coming and you are imposing decisions on the grounds that the CySEC decided. The consultation of the relevant institutions and the fermentation with the local society is completely lacking. Accordingly, you decided to appoint the Director of EKAB to Kavala a permanent anaesthetic at Serres Hospital, notwithstanding that this decision the Serres Hospital will not be able to perform regular surgery and can serve permanently the emergency with the remaining anaesthetics. You have delayed the recruitment of doctors only to support your Members that, following their actions, an issue has been resolved, which you yourself have created, no matter how much we have lost. In conclusion, I will say that we could not vote for this bill positively at first, when they continue and there are unacceptable provisions on citizenship that give a right-wing political signal, even in cases of people with special disabilities or stateless, Roma, etc. and with a last minute's amendment, the government has reached the point that the period for the submission of a request for naturalisation of those who are not entitled to international protection should be extended. Unfortunately, it has been lost, with the responsibility of the government, an opportunity for us to unite and vote for a bill in the direction of simplification and, more generally, better local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u422	The Deputy Minister has the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Stelios Petsas, in order to place himself on Articles 88, 89 and 90 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u423	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the provisions of Articles 88, 89 and 90 concerning matters of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information. Article 88 concerns the issue of financial support for newspaper publishers. This provision enables them to be supported through specially designed funding programmes to promote pluralism, pluralism and quality in public dialogue. I would like to remind you that the previous type-aid framework proved in practice not to serve the above objectives, because it was leading to distortions and that is why we preferred to abolish it. In particular, it was found that its application would lead to the aid of certain newspaper publishers in a non-proportional manner and without taking into account objective and evaluative criteria. In this way, we decided that the decision on the subject was promptly withdrawn by the recipients of all- Greek newspaper newspapers. However, acknowledging the role and importance of newspapers in the functioning of our democracy, and the fact that companies operating in this area have been particularly affected by the effects of the economic crisis all these years, we are taking the initiative to establish a new framework of financial support for these enterprises, which respect journalistic ethics and promote these purposes. This initiative is part of the policy we have been implementing with a view to addressing the problems of the media sector in recent years. On this occasion, I would remind you that, in the previous period, we have made legislative steps aimed at creating a favourable framework for attracting investment in the wider media area, which, as I said, has been disproportionately affected by the crisis, both in terms of the turnover and, above all, in terms of employment. At the same time, we proceeded to rationalise and update anachronistic and obsolete provisions that prevented the sector from modernising, while abolishing the counter-incentives for investment in the media sector. It is very positive that they are now opening channels instead of closing, as in SYRIZA. It is even more hopeful that there is considerable interest in new investments in the wider audiovisual sector, which will bring up the industry and employment in it. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceeded to the submission of the provisions which we are discussing today, we have consulted the stakeholders. In particular, the provision of Article 88 was drawn up, having regard to the positions and proposals put forward during the first cycle of institutional dialogue by the Athens Daily Newspapers' Association, the Athens Daily Newspapers' Association and the Panhellenic Federation of Authors' Associations, as well as the Association of Daily Provincial Newspaper Owners, the Calendar of Regional Newspapers and the Association of Provincial Press Owners. I would add that in these days we have already started a second consultation cycle to specialise the terms of the programmes in order to proceed immediately, following the adoption of this draft law, in their implementation. Let me briefly describe the content of the provision. In order to correct distortions identified in the previous programme and leading to its cancellation, the new financial support framework and an Advisory Committee is established, which is required to deliver an opinion on its reliable and effective implementation. Paragraph 2 provides for the work and the number and status of members of the Advisory Committee. In particular, the Committee will consist of representatives of authors' and newspaper owners' associations, as well as of persons of unknown prestige, with experience in the media sector. The Committee will be entrusted with the task of evaluating the forms, in particular with regard to respect for journalistic ethics and ethics, as identified in the applicable Codes and Professional Ethics and Ethics of Journalists. Paragraph 3 provides that the terms and conditions of the programmes are, in general, laid down by a joint decision of the Minister for Finance and the Secretary-General to the Prime Minister to whom the powers of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information have been delegated. It should be noted that, in the event of non-compliance with the conditions and conditions for the receipt of the aid, administrative penalties are provided for in order to ensure the proper use of the money to be provided. Finally, under Article 88(4) we expressly repeal Article 51 of Law No4609/2019 (A'67) and its delegated joint ministerial decisions No 2/88 and No 2/88 (A'67). The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision of Article 90 is an administrative intervention which extends the administrative support of the General Secretariat of the Government from 31-12-2019 to the adoption of the diplomatic decision of the Prime Minister provided for in paragraph 6 of Article 116, of Law 4622/2019 (A'133). With regard to Article 89 we amend Article 2 of Law 3548/2007 (A'68) which was replaced by Article 14 of Law 4487/2017. Under Law 4487/2017, an electronic register of regional and local types was established and conditions were laid down for the first registration of regional and local newspapers in it. The provision under discussion deals with issues relating to the possibility of applying for new applications, the fixing of a specific time period for their submission, as well as matters relating to the publication of relevant acts. First of all, we are going to regulate a gap in the earlier provision, allowing new applications for registration in the register from 1 to 31 March of each year and beyond the possibility, until now, of renewing the existing registered newspapers. In addition, it is expressly foreseen that the relevant decision should be posted to the 'Guarantee' programme in order to ensure transparency and information for all interested parties. For the same reasons, an updated list of newspapers entered in the register is provided for on the website of the General Secretariat of Communication and Information. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a press that is independent, reliable and sustainable, a press that operates in terms of transparency and promotes innovation, fair competition and healthy entrepreneurship, a press that creates jobs and offers high quality information to citizens. We are proposing financial support for newspaper publishers who respect journalistic ethics, because it is a state's duty to ensure the proper functioning of the press away from the toxic side effects of inter-progression, propaganda and misinformation, which, unfortunately, has emerged into one of the greatest dangerous scourges of our time, through the construction and movement of fast news. In particular, these days when we are faced with an avalanche-fake news on the part of Turkey, on the occasion of the use of immigrants and refugees on its part as pawns, for the pursuit of geopolitical purposes. It is a real pity that Greek media and journalists adopt and reproduce Turkish make news. We would not comment on that if the national interest were not affected. We leave them in the judgment of their readers and all Greeks. With all the Greeks at our side, we will do everything we can to protect our borders and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u424	I will now invite the Deputy of the New Democracy, Mr. Kouvela Dimitrios for seven minutes, then the Deputy of the New Democracy, Mr. Hatzidakis Dionysios and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Here, Mr. Couvela, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u425	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, we are debating a very important draft law on local government today and not just. But first of all, as a member of the National Parliament, I would like to thank the Armed Forces, the men of the Police and the Port for their fight against the asymmetrical threat facing our country from Erdogan policy, who ruthlessly exploits thousands of unhappy people - among whom many small children - who are looking for better luck in Europe. I am still very proud of our locust compatriots, residents of Evros, who stand on the side of the Armed Forces and Police. The Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government with lightning reflexes, have shielded our land and sea borders and with systematic diplomacy, have succeeded in bringing the problem up to European level and taking immediate measures to protect the borders of the European Union. Of course, the European design of political response to the immigration - refugee problem is under way. The provision of EUR 700 million financial support and the sending of additional men from FRONTEX to our borders is just the beginning. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to put misery, micropolitical and populism aside. Don't be a grievance to the national and European effort in progress. You're telling us these days you're gonna put your back on. Where exactly? To treat those who are conspiring outside our borders after we open them up beforehand? Then you talked about a Prime Minister's communication show on Evros. And today, fully misinterpreting the positions of the European Union, you ask the Greek Government to support the national strategy of defending our borders. The European Union unreservedly supports Greece and this is the reality that is under way. Finally, we expect you to show the necessary seriousness, the required responsibility and to understand all together that national unity is required in the face of this crisis. We clearly want a Greece with rules, safe and, most importantly, with correct, organised and controlled European borders. This is also demonstrated by the amendment tabled today concerning the possibility of granting Greek citizenship to those who have entered Greece illegally, only after seven years, instead of three years, which has been foreseen so far. So we would expect that self-evident from you, that is, agree. But this is where you react. Finally, I think you can't be caught from nowhere and we can raise your hands while you insist on this practice in this policy. As far as the draft law is concerned, Mr Minister, a lot has already been said in the committee, but today in the debate in plenary. I am going to dwell on the fact that it serves two objectives: it better organises the structures of the local government for the benefit of the citizens, leaving much behind from what has been reserved for us in the past. The second objective is that it makes necessary conditions so that municipalities and regions can actually gain a stable development perspective in practice and not in words, because we in New Democracy believe in local self-government. We believe that it is a pillar to improve the daily lives of the citizen, to increase social cohesion, of course, for the economic development of our country. On the contrary, you on the left see local government as a tool, as an underhand to actually increase your political influence at local level. That is why you have promoted the important - a reform of local government, namely the emergence of mayors and municipal councils on a simple analogue basis. You actually wanted to play a role where SYRIZA's powers were too small at local level. The Government seriously, systematically, responsibly, step by step puts order on the ground, always in cooperation with the Central Association of Municipalities. Already in August, we gave the municipalities the opportunity to be governed. Today we are moving on to individual arrangements and there is a major initiative in the summer, as the Minister responsible announced, where the framework for Local Government will be completed. This bill establishes development agencies as anonymous special-purpose companies, which will co-operate with local government agencies to implement better development policies. The establishment of technical assistance is also being introduced so that a faster study and implementation of various programmes can be achieved, but also that the level of absorption of European funds is now considerably increased, because it is something that we have seen very difficult in previous years. Also, it is initially applied to the three major municipalities of the country, including Thessaloniki, a system of synergies through the signing of monuments between the above municipalities and other public administrations in an attempt to combat bureaucracy, where, of course, this will only be for the benefit of the citizens, who will now address a body solely to resolve their problem. Specific regulations are very important: I stand out only for the extension of the 'Help at Home' programme, with the introduction of the 'Prevention at Home' programme, initially for the inhabitants of the difficult mountains, but also for islands. It is very important to make use of the possibilities of technology, telemedicine, so that medical assistance and care are provided. The question of stray animals, which employs too many municipalities and also our fellow citizens, comes into a further arrangement, comes to a greater order, so that even more organized aid can be provided in relation to stray pet animals, with the establishment of the Philozootic Association Register. I will only close by saying that the problems in the administration and organisation of local authorities are many, important and needed organised efforts to reduce bureaucracy and opacity. I am sure that with this draft law, but also initiatives coming from the government, local government can regain its lost productive role, with the aim of developing and providing quality services to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u426	Mrs Lykoulis has asked for the floor, as a special speaker, because she has a meeting with her party and she has to leave - in order for the Minister to answer. Here, Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u427	Thank you very much, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen. We must address this issue, because the content is not entirely clear. You have brought the amendment from the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, Mr Minister. In the explanatory statement you say nothing at all. However, I am referring to Article 3 of this amendment, which you call 'departure of recognised beneficiaries and termination of benefits under Article 114 of Law 4636/2019, is replaced by the following...' and refer to the replacement. We have read and noticed - because you have already surprised us - and we see that here you are bringing a very big change, which you are bringing, not only to the perception, culture and political decision, but also to the time that you set as the time for refugees to stay in the country, taking six months, on 30 days. First of all, I would like you to say to us: firstly, if the High Commissioner was asked about this. The second thing I want to ask you, and it is equally serious, is that there is neither in this article nor in the rest of your prediction of what you are doing to these people. It was six months in structures, with the ESSIA program, and then they found their own job and home. This is a very serious matter. They're still refugees in the country, they don't have the cover for six months, but only for thirty days. After thirty days, if they're legal refugees, where are you taking them? Are we creating a new Pandelemon? What do we create? Are they in the squares and roaming around towns? Is he on the island? Where is he? How do you deal with this? These are the questions. Without a solution to the relocation, I repeat, of their legal refugees, you will allow them 30 days to roam. Finally, I say that it is only to bring them a thousand - a thousand - to pass through the structures for thirty days, to leave and bring back another thousand and so on.Huh? This image you are currently giving us with this device We want to know that to decide, though, really. We want you to explain the first question about the High Commissionership and the second question of what to do with them after the thirty days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u428	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u429	I just want to make it clear that this is an amendment from the Ministry of Migration Policy and that Mr Mitsakis will be here to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u430	And I realized that you should have asked that question when Mr. Economou was here. He defended the amendment and was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u431	We don't deal with questions on the basis of which Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u432	In any case, Mr Hatzidakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u433	Let Mr. Gerapetritis come in for a while to tell us about the good legalization.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u434	You have love with Mr. Gerapitris, Mr. Spirtzi!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u435	For self-government, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u436	Well, it's a very good piece of legislation. I, at least, have a great deal of parliamentary experience to see and I see a lot of things that have improved. You know, all the topical questions are answered. You know, there has been no blockade of any MEP over the entire seven months. We're depleting the list, exhausting ourselves, as we should. Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill aims to improve and meet the needs of the bill that came in the summer. Then when, Mr. former Minister, you decided with the legislation you brought to dismantle local government. What do I mean by "solve"? You brought an election law where, as you can see, a mayor could no longer operate and rule his municipality. So, is this piece of legislation coming in and what about it? Gives the mayor tools to be able to function. We must understand that all of us, who are self-government, that the model of today's mayor or rather of the mayor of the last decade has nothing to do with the mayor of a decade ago, where he was considered a successful mayor who, Minister, was picking up the trash, changing some lamps and making some bowels to the public. This model has passed unreturned. Today's mayor must be a manager. With the cuts made in the CAP and the other economic aid, the municipalities have been in a great stalemate. What can the municipalities and the mayor do to judge that he did something in his term? It must make use of the NSRF, make use of public investment, make use of programme contracts with the region. Can he do this? Not to worry about my own municipality, but I managed to do this. I have certified that my services can conduct studies to be funded by the NRP. However, there was a process, ladies and gentlemen, which lasted for about three years to do a project of the ESDP at the level of two and three million. We don't go forward like that. So this bill is coming. The Minister called on the mayors who became MPs and told him what was needed in this bill to enable the mayors to function. He gave what we asked him, what we faced, what we were dragged into the courts. So if a new mayor does not make good use of the tools he gives the Ministry, then he will answer and be judged. I'm surprised that at the three pre-conferences, you all said how nice the bill was. I saw everyone with smiles and greetings to the Minister: 'Bravo, it is good and wonderful, we will vote and move on'. And I hear today: “Why did the six vice-presidents become eight?” Is that the point? Do you know what that means, Attica Region? It is not time for people to say 'good morning' that all these loose ends cannot be implemented. If they don't deal with everyday life, the strategy goes and all these things go. It's not for death if the six are eight. It is not now a question of discussing and saying that the bill is not a good one. Let me tell you now another two - three topics: is it not important that mountains and small towns can make use of telemedicine? So he can be served by someone who has sugar and doesn't have to go find the doctor who never finds him in his village or in the province? With this system, he can work from home and say what he's going to do. Have you dealt with philosophical issues? You can't imagine what a huge problem there is. It solves this issue and introduces which unions can employ the municipality. Another issue is defined which shows a sensitivity, that by ministerial decision they can buy electric or hybrid cars. Funding will be set to help the municipalities who want to escape from oil. This is a very positive thing. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] About the subject of pre-school education. At some point, a bill came out to stop at kindergartens and start preschooling. When there are no rooms, how will these things be covered? There is therefore the possibility of a contract for three years in some area. Is that bad? It's good. But I didn't see anyone commenting on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not like to say much. That was my motto: 'We talk a little and we do a lot'. In local government, you're not judged by what you're saying, but by what you're doing. And then the mayor is judged. The mayor is judged. It shall not be considered to be the municipal councillor or vice mayor or any chairman of an organisation. So the mayor must have powers. I don't understand, you think the city council will decide. It's reasonable, yes, it's the city council. I, seventeen years in the municipality, found that few municipal councillors had read the agenda issues, not to know each subject. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, who come more read, it is a solution, that is where they develop in the best way. After passing through the Economic Commission, we also bring it to the Council to bless it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u438	Do we have to abolish this city council?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u439	Let me tell you, we don't remove it from the city council. If you had lived up to the reality of municipal councils, you speak philosophically about the subject. Actually, the city council...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u440	Mr. Hatzidakis, don't answer, go on, but your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u441	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Governing Council shall validate the decisions of the mayor and of the Economic Commission. That's good. I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to tell you, after so many years of mayor, that there were issues in this bill which were topics that restricted the activities of the mayors, which feared. I, because I wasn't afraid I've been dragged to court twenty-eight times. I've always been right, but there are others who couldn't stand it. Of course, I believe that this bill does not cover the entire range of needs, but it is not a bill written in the leg. All bills and previous bills were one direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u442	Please complete, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u443	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u444	You've already taken a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u445	But the time has come for what we've found before, which was hard to make, to work better. And I congratulate the Minister, who has heard the voices of the mayors now in Parliament and has done most. And the fact, Minister, that you have put small municipalities which do not have technical services, which do not have financial services, to be able to move from regular to recompense and vice versa, will very much solve the hands of the mayors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u446	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr President. Over the last few days there has been the issue of the new wave of migratory flows in both the Aegean and the Evros border, which Mr Erdogan of course exploits. The government is talking about asymmetric threats, but not only does the government respond - but also the other parties - who is rooting out refugees and immigrants. Is it the barbarity of the capitalist system that roots them out? Are there any imperialist interventions in the Middle East and Africa leading to the uproar of millions of worlds and to these imperialist interventions by the European Union, NATO and the United States? Greece participates actively either through the infrastructures it has with the imperialist organisations or through the missions it makes outside the border, the military missions from outside the border. So one prisoner is that. Specifically, they're tearing up. They're not leaving on their own. Second element. Who's enclaving them in Greece? Who has turned Greece into a prison of souls? The anti-immigration policy of the European Union, the inadmissible Dublin Agreement and the unacceptable agreement between the European Union and Turkey. These are the responsible ones who have turned Greece into a storeroom of souls. On the substance, of course, Mr Erdogan has said it - he has said it in the past - that he will exploit the immigrants and refugees present in Turkey to threaten, blackmail, claim and demand both with regard to Syria and the thoughts he has in Syria, the conquests and the question of the overall international agreements, the Lausanne Agreement on the definition of borders, but also the Aegean issue with the 'grey zones', as he considers them, by claiming that not only of the Aegean is taken into account. From this point of view, who makes backs to Erdogan? Who supports him on the substance? Does the European Union not support him? Doesn't NATO and the United States support him? Why? Because they want to decapitate him from Russia's influence, because it is very important for Turkey for Euro-Atlantic imperialists. In this respect, then, Erdogan's geopolitical games support and provide any consideration it claims to Syria. What's the result? What we are experiencing, exploiting thousands of people who do not have a fate in the sun right now and pawning them in their geopolitical and geostrategic plans. From this point of view, it is a challenge that the government came out and celebrated the statements made by European officials. The various wishes don't deal with the problem. On the contrary, what did the European officials say? They have said that the Greek borders are European borders and we must guard them. So what did they say on the substance? They said that Greece has a responsibility to increase migration flows in our country and from there on, let it manage itself by further exacerbating the number of refugees and immigrants present in Greece, without escape. We are clearly saying that the calls and the Change Movement, as well as the SYRIZA on national unity, and on a management plan on condolences, formulated by the European Union's policy with Dublin and the European Union-Turkey agreement, cannot exist, there can be no way out that faces this situation. On the contrary, it legalizes the conversion of our country into prison, into a prison of souls. So what matters and is the prerequisite is that, here and now, there should be a conflict on the part of the Greek Government with the Dublin agreement, not to apply the Dublin agreement to the Greek Government, not to accept the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Here's another game. What's that? That far-right practices and extreme right-wing phrases have been exploited in recent years and that supports these extreme right-wing practices and phrases is sowing winds and will reap storms in the next period, because of course it is necessary to guard borders, but it cannot be used as an alibi to legitimise far-right voices and extreme right-wing practices. Because, at the bottom of the script, the enemy of the Greek people is not the uprooted, they are not the victims of capitalist barbarism and imperialism. Enemy is precisely those policies that have led them to the eruption. From this point of view, what is important is that all hotspots should be closed to the Aegean islands, that neither new nor closed nor open-ended, the immediate decapitation of the islands by rapid procedures should be created, so that this world can go to the countries of destination. Now the European Union and the UN are organising asylum procedures within Turkey and at the border of Greece, but also at the Syrian border for the direct movement of this world into the countries of destination. Secondly, which we want to raise, on the basis of this opportunity, is the issue of the evolution of the coronary epidemic. The government is right to take some measures. But what does he always invoke? It invokes not to create panic in the world since the spread of the virus. But here we have specific issues, which must be dealt with, because it is not a matter of panic to take concrete measures, which contribute to prevention and protection. And that's not what we see. Or rather, these measures are fragmentary, they do not address the problem and in some cases they may even make it worse. What do you say? The first and main measure that we also demanded as a party, which is serious about government policy on this issue, is the enormous shortages in human resources in hospitals, health centres, primary health care. The spread of the epidemic will exacerbate these huge deficiencies. The practical result was shown. On quarantine, the only reference hospital in Western Greece came into quarantine because of the incident that broke out in Patras. First Pathological Clinic is closed. No fifteen workers - doctors, nurses and paramedics - entered quarantine, were completely withdrawn from this process. He doesn't do newspapers at Ryu Hospital. And where are the on-calls? At St. Andreas Hospital, which operates below security limits. In the circumstances, not on a permanent record. We all understand what a terrible burden there is for human resources and what impact this will have. Such issues do not seem to make the government aware. So it's not a matter of priority for public health? So why don't you get away from the delayed procedures, while on other issues you come here and bring amendments to derogate from the provisions? To cover with the necessary medical and nursing staff hospitals immediately isn't it a first issue in these circumstances? We say it's a first matter. Is it not a matter of priority, for example, for all the IMPs, which remain closed due to a lack of medical and nursing personnel? It's a top priority. Why not intervene by way of derogation from the provisions? Why don't you move on to the reopening of the Thoraka Hospital in Patras, a specialist hospital, and on such issues that the SYRIZA government closed down and merged it with St. Andreas Hospital? Why don't you move on to his reopening? Why don't you take measures to address the enormous shortages that exist in consumables and artificially raise demand and may also be speculative. But there are other problems which the government does not deal with and which exist. For example, in Achaia, Elias and Zakynthos all schools closed for two days, from nursery stations to universities. The children sent by the workers to the nurseries that have been closed, who will keep them? What measures are you taking for workers who have their children at closed nurseries? Will they get permission from work? Will this permission be justified? Will they be paid for the time for which they are forced to leave or leave their children and their babies right and left? They will take measures, in particular, the large companies, which have a high concentration of labour, the protection of workers as a whole. There are specific measures. It does not seem, however, that any provision of the Ministry of Labour - rather of Employment on this issue and on all matters relating to workers - should force large companies - to take such protection measures as well. These are, therefore, issues which are very specific. Finally, Mr President, our rapporteur mentioned this bill in detail and he took all sides. What's his title? ‘State development perspective for OTAs’. We, Mr Minister, have a different logic for municipalities and regions, especially for municipalities. Municipalities are not developmental tools. Municipalities could have been tools - they could not - which could relieve workers, the wide folk layers of serious problems, which they are facing and for which your own policy and the previous governments are responsible. They could be tools that improve the position and the living conditions of the people's family, creating the necessary infrastructure, such as anti-nuclear, anti-milling, earthquake works, green, free spaces, sports and culture infrastructures, so that the necessary expression of youth can be found. But that's not all. The priority of the government, of course, as well as of all previous, with all the reforms, by "Kavidistis", "Kallikrates" and all others, is the ever-increasing cohesiveness of the municipalities, as state-level mechanisms at municipal level, to become effective development tools to promote the planning and hierarchies and priorities set by the bourgeoisie for our country. It will therefore become more effective tools that will lead to a growth that is conditional on the devastation of rights, with workers insecurity, with very low wages, which will make the richest and poorest and expand the gap between the really great opportunities to meet the people's needs and the standard of living of the people's family you ask it to survive with certain erupts and charity. So, with this logic, we have led the municipalities to be detached from the human resources necessary - the scientific potential, the technical capacity, the workforce - and a low funding from the central resources so that the necessary machinery and the solution can be done in the event of capitalist development. So, by pressing on to these problems you have already created, you are turning the municipalities into more and more communes into business groups, through public-private partnerships, which lead to commercialisation, the privatisation of services provided to the people, with a workforce of multiple speeds and relationships, consumables, without rights and, of course, turning them into a tax-driven mechanism so that they can have the same resources. That's your logic. We are against that logic. It is a logic that turns municipalities into anonymous corporations and the mayor into directors. From this point of view, it is normal for the mayor not to take into account the decisions of the municipal council. From this point of view, Mr President, the Communist Party of Greece cannot contribute to this kind of reasonableness. We are voting against the specific bill of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u449	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, for a minute on a point which I consider to be very important. I have listened very carefully to the speech by the spokesman of the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos. I obviously don't want to respond to his position on our bill. I believe, however, that I must say two things about a very serious issue, which has clearly raised, I believe, the problem of dealing with the coronary. The proposals that Mr Karathanasopoulos said, which I understand are proposals from his party, are very much covered and included in the government's legislative act. In particular, as far as staff and recruitment are concerned, the Secretary-General of Health Services on the basis of this legislative act has full power to exploit and move in the way he appreciates the best of all health care personnel. It is also provided for that the EGE has the possibility, it has the complete freedom to recruit health workers - doctors and nurses - by way of derogation from any provision in order to deal with the conditions. The mandate of the Ministry of Health and of course the mechanism involved in this battle by the Prime Minister of the country is Kyriakos Mitsotakis to do everything in order to limit the spread of the coronary. There have already been specific decisions, they have been implemented to a very great extent, they have been vigilant, reflexive and it is a battle which we will all be called upon to give, because it is not going to end very soon, as each of us understands. But you are facing open doors, because almost all the proposals are included in the MDG.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u451	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u453	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u454	Mr Minister, we have been placed responsible for the legislative act. We believe it is moving in one direction. But we do not consider it sufficient. Why do we say that? Because it provides for the recruitment of a hundred medical and nursing staff to meet emergencies for a quarterly contract. We don't say that thing. Because basically the gaps that exist only at Rio Hospital, which is a reference hospital, are more than a hundred sixty doctors from the organogram that the Rio Hospital currently has. We are not saying that it will work to the perfection that it must. That's the first. Secondly, with movements of medical staff from health centres in hospitals you do not solve the problem, because other areas relating to public health will deteriorate, in the name of the treatment of the coronary, and of course not the fatigue of medical personnel. So we're talking about permanent recruitment. That's the one. The second question, Mr Minister, is whether measures will be taken at the workplaces where workers are concentrating, and also whether workers who have entered quarantine will be able to keep children, with paid leave from businesses, without being regarded as a cause for dismissal. But this is also a matter for the government to take such measures in that direction. That is why we have tabled a very specific question today to the Ministry of Labour to take immediate measures of this kind to safeguard, protect and facilitate the workers who have closed down schools in their children.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u456	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u457	I will insist, not for party reasons, nor is it in any way a matter of party controversy. We are also taking these proposals very seriously, because they concern a very serious issue. Just to have a complete picture, there is now approval for a thousand five hundred recruitments of subsidiary medical and nursing staff, which are for two years, two-year contracts. The EGE contracts to which you referred before, Mr Karathanasopoulos, are four months. Therefore, a very serious effort is being made to ensure all the staff it needs. From there on, in the light of developments, any measures will be taken with regard to staff, workers, especially in places where a large number of workers are concentrated. These will be placed on the table, depending on how this epidemic will develop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u458	We continue with the speakers. Mr Jekalaya Xeli has the floor from the New Democracy. Mr Vázquez Fouz will be followed by Mr Vázquez Fouz and then by the Parliamentary spokesman for the European Parliament. Mr. Jekalaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, according to the Constitution, the role of the Greek Parliament is primarily legislative. However, it is not possible for a elected representative of the people to come to the party and not to refer to the issues of the current policy of topicality, which is really hot, particularly in the last two weeks. Because once the late nation ruler, Constantine Karamanlis, had said that "outside we go well", I will begin first on the internal theme, for which we had a creative debate a short time ago and - within introductory terms - "confront" between the Minister and the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC. In my capacity as a doctor and, in particular, a pulmonary, I would like to say that I agree with the positions announced by the government, which are a product of deep processing and advice with the most experts in dealing with this issue. In fact, there's an infection, an epidemic that we all know how it started. The government takes all those preventive measures that are necessary to deal with. There's no need for reassurance. We need vigilance. No way, panic. Clearly medically, this coronary - omega-rab is correct, a word, no matter whether in English it is called "Corona Virus" - it has high transmissibility. They're really gonna get a lot of sick. We're waiting for a lot of people to get sick. Fortunately, however, it seems that gravity will be small. A few incidents will require hospitalization and even less will lead to mortality. We are doing very well and taking these measures so that we can have the least possible consequences. We must therefore tell our fellow citizens that, as others have been, let us say, epidemics, SARS, poultry flu, swine flu, so will this epidemic. I now come to the external issue. In the last ten days, the plan exalted by the great ruler from the eastern neighbour has been revealed in recent years. Now, in a second stage, this plan has been passed. Last week we had some events on the islands, mainly in Lesvos and Chios, from which some emotions and some conclusions emerged, which are very diverse or, if you like, mixed. We have come in the last five days, where we really have an attempt to invade the Greek territory. The Greek authorities did what they had to do, did what we might have to do some night in Evros or the Aegean, that is to say, know how to deal with things ourselves. Indeed there, the Greek Police, the Armed Forces, the national guards, but above all the unity among the Greek people, gave a decisive response by blocking this attempt. Of course, a 'war' - within introductory forms - before reaching the weapons has the diplomatic methods you use. It is really important what the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has done, who has succeeded and immediately led the European institutions to see the situation closely. Because, above all, we are a member of this great European family. On the other hand, and on a scientific level, we need to do what we need to do. For example, these days become tables, for instance. Last night I participated in a joint organization of the Institute for the Republic of Konstantinos Karamanlis, with the French Institute, on the subject of "The battle of maps", where in addition to other worthy professors he was also a worthy representative of our Parliament, Mr Angelos Syrigos. The place is with Greece. Let's not forget that the East-West ruler, Neo-Sultan, when he makes his covert announcements, especially in recent weeks, always has some maps behind him. Coming now to the bill in my short time, I will say that it is a very serious and important bill and that comes from two parameters: On the one hand, it is the fact that the leadership of the Ministry of Interior made a reference, took a position, on many very interesting issues that will give solutions to the two major areas with which they deal with the issues of Local Government bodies and public administration arrangements. On the other hand, Minister, it comes as a follow-up to the great effort the government has been making since it legislated for the ultimate, flexible state. It's really an incision in the Hellenic Republic. But we are familiar with reality. We know what we're dealing with. We see it every day. There's the artisanal government red tape. With these efforts we have been trying to resolve this whole time. In the context of the democratic dialogue, the government made concessions and convergings to vote for other parties at the end. That's what we want. A great deal of help is given to the border and remote municipalities. Development companies are being established, which will give way to the deadlocks accumulated by the technical services of the municipalities and regions. We had to think about citizenship between legal and illegal immigrants. Of course, and some changes in disciplinary law are important. The selection of leaders at different levels of local government and all public administration is ensured. I mean, our government is really determined and continues its mission. To finish where I started, in these problems and in the health field, it will become the best possible, and I believe that with the least potential victims and patients. On the other hand, we all have to be united in foreign policy. Our opponent must know that we will exhaust all diplomatic means, but if he breaks red lines, he must know that we are determined to deal with it and even more that we will win, because the right thing is on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u460	Before giving the floor to Mr Akuppi, where he is the next speaker, Mr Lebanon has asked for the floor for some sort of legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr President. We should put forward the last package of legislative improvements. Let me speed up two, which are more important. The first is that applications for mobility in the islands of the North Aegean, i.e. in the two municipalities of Lesvos, in the two municipalities in Samos and Chios, are suspended, in order not to be weakened in view of the pressure they receive due to both the refugee and the immigration issue. Secondly, the molecules of the graduates of the National School of Public Administration are increasing - I think it was a proposal, and several parties - from 250 to 275. I submit them to be distributed and for what you need, we are at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u462	Good. Thank you. Come on, Mr. Apepi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u463	Thank you very much, Mr President. As my island was mentioned earlier, Zakynthos, my region, on the issue of closed schools, because of coronary, I would like to tell you that we are dealing with this whole issue with total cooling. Zakynthos Hospital seems to have taken all appropriate measures to deal with possible cases. There are five suspected incidents, but they have not yet been confirmed. We're waiting for the results. I think, however, that we should address it calmly, not only in Zakynthos, but throughout Greece as well. As Mr Tzokalaya said earlier, it is very contagious, but in no case is there a great deal of mortality. Therefore, I say this once again, we should be cool. In order not to waste our time, as old self-government, I think we are dealing with a serious bill, which is coming to regulate importantly and chronists of the local government agencies, the law of citizenship, as well as issues of public administration human resources. As far as the first part of the bill, which we have in our hands, is concerned, it is important to stress that the regulations introduced today are an important section, since they aim to improve the development prospects of local government bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, development in self-government will come after initiatives, measures and actions. To date, unfortunately, we are all aware of the enormous problems which exist and concern projects studies, forecasts and others. The causes are also known. The lack of human resources of the municipalities and, of course, restrictions on the recruitment of new municipal officials resulting from the Memorandum of Understanding and for which, of course, the previous government did not take any action at all. The result of this situation is, at least, regrettable. Only 30% of European programmes are absorbed by the Greek municipalities. It is, in fact, impressive that while there are financial opportunities, there are no operational administrative procedures allowing for such absorption. In other words, we let the money pass through us, and we do not have the tools to use them, and a significant number of jobs are even lost. Because absorption means jobs, not only for those working in the development companies that are set up, but also for those working in the projects that will start to be carried out and which will be much more, but also much larger. In this context, therefore, the Development Planning Committee is set up as the High Representative of the Minister for Local and Regional Planning, which will be able to collect information and on this basis recommend specific solutions and guidelines to local government development programmes. Moreover, on the basis of the provisions of this draft law, the administrative capacity of the municipalities and structures of the Ministry of Interior, responsible for managing specific development programmes is strengthened. To this end, the institution of technical assistance is introduced, with the aim of reintroducing the funds more effectively. In the same climate, and for the same purpose, there is also a provision for the establishment of Local Government Development Bodies. This is a development tool, deviated from bureaucratic strangles, whose task is to provide scientific and technical support to the municipalities, but also to implement and implement the development programmes concerned. At the same time, this draft law provides for the development of a groundbreaking system for the development and assistance of the technical services of the OTA, through programmatic contracts with the technical services of the EBRD, TEI SA. Expected result of this arrangement is no other than the start of the award, conclusion, supervision of public contracts, studies and projects. This will unlock works, which are currently immobilized. Finally, further measures introduced by this draft law and serving more effectively to absorb funds from the Local Government agencies are the end of the ineffective and dysfunctional institution of administrative support, the introduction of a new framework for cooperation between legal persons of LAGs, as well as the creation of the Local Government Data Register, which will record the assets and the entire economic operation of the municipalities, with a view to upgrading the services provided. Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important to say that this bill establishes the 'Prevention at Home' programme, which will work alongside the 'Help at Home' programme and serve vulnerable groups of the population, especially in remote areas. In the same context, a pilot telemedicine programme, on the basis of which a preventive medical examination will be carried out at home and which will be sent immediately, electronically, to the medical practitioners concerned. As far as the point of amending the Code of Nationality is concerned, I would like to stress that for the first time, the relevant procedures for applicants with Greek citizenship are facilitated in relation to foreigners. The main aim of this draft law is, also, the reconstruction of the Nationality Council, in order to make it operational and effective. Furthermore - this is extremely important - from now on, it ends the current regime, which provides that anyone who enters the country and illegally, but takes refugee status, has the opportunity within three years to become a Greek, while if anyone has legally entered the country, this is a condition for seven years. With the provisions of the present Treaty, this will change. Moreover, anyone who enters the country illegally, but takes refugee status, will receive Greek citizenship within the seven years. At the same time, this draft law improves the scope of the provisions relating to the choice of heads of LAGs in order to correct injustices and strengthen the capacity to fulfil the relevant positions, while speeding up the recruitment and operation procedures of the AACC. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this bill is part of the overall strategy of the government towards local government and public administration. We in the New Democracy face self-government as a pillar of development and seek the proper functioning of it, with a view to achieving social cohesion and improving the quality of life of citizens. At the same time, we are dealing with the public sector as a lever that needs to be modernised so that the country can be re-competitive, but also achieve better service for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u464	The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, has the floor. The Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr Mitarakis will then take the floor after Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u465	Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the refugee. You know, in this crisis there are two factors. One who is in control of our European Union and one who, unfortunately, is not. As you all understand, of course, this second non-controlling European Union is Turkey's state policy - neighbouring Turkey - which, under the direction of extremely dangerous President Erdogan, does what he does. But where did all this huge power of his certainly, mercifully speaking, come from a dangerous President Erdogan? You know, President Erdogan's power stems precisely from the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, which conquered the Erdogan regime as a catalyst of the whole issue. In our opinion, this joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey of 2016, which the Greek governments 'yes in all' have signed and kept to date convinced and reverent, is the one that finally allowed Mr Erdogan to work today on the drama of poor refugees. So the European Union must, in our opinion, act immediately in the management of the problem, namely the controlled promotion of refugees and immigrants in a number of Member States of the European Union. It is the worst possible attitude of this union of the European Union, which is taking place today, that which has so far decided to exercise. The moral and practical support for Greece, our country, a country, an emblem or a shield, as she said openly yesterday - told us that in the face - Mrs Von Der Lyen. Since the appropriate European attitude and policy does not take place, all the others, ladies and gentlemen, have almost no value. Because even assuming that at the moment, refugees and migrants are not entering the country - a case clearly unrealistic - this is a future, because the possibility for Recep Tayyip Erdogan to send refugees and immigrants to the border is potentially unlimited and means that it can reach a number of times - yesterday I heard him threaten from the Turkish Parliament - with a characteristic ease for its neighbour Turkey. They only have to tell some of them about two and a half million, 'go north', thus dismantling all our own governmental intentions to safeguard borders. Therefore - and this is the important - indeed the only policy that Greece can effectively exercise is the greatest possible pressure on the European Union at last - it is never too late! - the responsibility for it. Because we do not want to talk by air, I will tell you exactly what I mean 'pressure'. On the contrary, the taking up by our country of the role of the European Spatial Guard, ladies and gentlemen, holds us a place in history, which no cool Greek citizen wants, I think, does not want. The question, therefore, is that neither the European Union nor Turkey nor the borders, as I have explained before, can solve the problem. Mer25 denies the built, furnished and nationally dangerous dilemma, in our view, 'closed or open borders'. We are proposing humanitarian and rational management of our borders on the basis of international human rights rules and the United Nations' statutes. The current Government should also immediately take pressure measures towards the European Union, in which, in our opinion, all the veto that our Government can make on any possible decision by the European Union on any matter from now on, since that time does not solve the problem, starting from the European Union budget, which I think is being voted on next week and which - as you know best from me - requires unanimity from the Member States. So you understand that if we simply veto the European Union budget, they will begin to think very seriously about whether they can finally share out of five, ten thousand refugees and desert immigrants in their countries. Secondly, we propose a direct breach by the Greek Government of all the agreements on refugees and migrants with damage not to us, but to the European Union, not to refugees and immigrants, but to the European Union, and at the same time to take all possible measures to enable those who are refugees and migrants to enter our country and want to travel to those countries who want in breach - I stress and repeat - the agreed ones. But who did we agree with? With a Europe that has been refusing for years - more than six years - to assume its responsibilities. Politics, which is currently being conducted by the government, is very different. It is about turning an issue clearly pan-European, Greek-Turkish, into a script of border guarding from the invasion of an vague enemy, into an endless political division between those who want a closed border and those who want human treatment for the oppressed people. The government, you know, is outlawing this moment. Already the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees issued a statement yesterday - I think - in which the suspension of the examination of asylum claims by our Government is considered to be completely illegal. Ignoring the pressing need for maximum pressure by means of methods of disobedience to the European Union, so that it finally allocates the refugees and immigrants who in fact enter and will continue to enter the Greek territory, is simply, ladies and gentlemen, destructive! If we go through the bill we are discussing today, I would just like to say a word on the subject that Mr Famelos has already raised. Minister, there are Court of Auditors decisions prohibiting development companies from being contracting authorities. These decisions - for your information - are the decisions of the Court of Auditors under number 12 and 13 of 2018. So, today, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to discuss the bill of the Ministry of Interior for Local Government agencies, their strategic, development perspectives and other issues relating to the Ministry of Interior. It is, of course, worth noting - as we always do - that in this bill we also find provisions that concern not only the Ministry of Interior but also other ministries, the Ministry of Digital Governance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture and Sport. The intention of the draft law is, according to the Minister, to give local government agencies, at last, support in order to upgrade and strengthen, ultimately, the role of local government in general, but also of the municipalities in particular, in order to simplify several procedures and, ultimately, to improve the daily lives of citizens at local level. Once again, however, in this draft law, you do not hide it lately - the intention of the New Democracy Government to transfer activities and services from local government bodies to private individuals, creating a model that will work in the market and companies. So the memories come back. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, namely last August, when it was voted - when you voted, I mean - the multi-brand plan, then we were talking about a legislative coup to local government agencies. Of course, the word 'coup d'état' tends to lose importance, since it is often used only as a form of speech. However, when a new law removes powers from elected majority voting and confers them on minority groups within an institution, what, in your opinion, can another word describe what is happening at that time, apart from the word 'coup d'état'? With this draft law, therefore, they are assigned to private responsibilities of technical and construction services and the old development companies are renamed to ‘developing organisations’. I fear that the government sees this as a great innovation. Of course, there is no point in recruiting new officials, who could have paid places necessary for the proper and effective functioning of the municipality's services, while Article 76 increases the years to be spent on transferring 3K workers, that is, the notice of employment via the ADP, from two years to seven years, which we consider to be unacceptable. Once again, workers in the payroll services, namely cleanliness, collect the analgesia and depreciation of the government, which is coming back to create multi-speed workers. In Article 70, which is related to "Help at Home", workers are charged, in addition to the related tasks and already existing in their industry, home care, instead of having predictions or even a chance or thought for later for recruiting new workers. Workers at the local government agencies, on the other hand, know that they demand - they do not demand - mass recruitment of all specialties and staffing technical services with permanent staff, scientific and other staff, ensuring necessary and modern equipment and tools to meet all the conditions for uninterrupted work. They also require that no delegation of powers be given to the private sector, that Article 76 be withdrawn immediately, which provides that an official should apply for the secondment, movement or transfer after seven years of his appointment. They also require that no worker should be fired from those who have already been sworn down, placed and worked in the municipalities, on the basis of the first tables and not included in the new tables, while ensuring that those who objected to the objection are also placed in the new tables. A similar arrangement is required for workers in our local government agencies to cover any new revisions of the tender tables in the future, to enable workers who, with the first final lists, were recruited in one municipality and with the new final tables found in another, to choose whom municipality they will work. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that our Government, your Government, the New Democracy, has consistently and consistently implemented the requirements of the major business groups by eradicating any rights and conquests that have left us today, that is to say, to the workers, by turning local government into a privileged field of profit only for the well-known monarchs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u466	The Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. Mitarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is facing a determination, with unity, an asymmetrical threat, a threat which puts on the cloak of immigration, and this is essentially a direct question of our sovereign rights at the borders of Greece and the European Union. The Government reacted, with determination, by a decision of the HRC and a legislative act on the full mobilisation of the Security and Armed Forces at the land and sea borders. It is a thrilling response to the world's response to the border guards who guard our country. We moved on to suspend the right of asylum for illegally entering from 1 March 2020. From the outset, the government has had a clear plan to reduce migratory flows, a project based on four basic defence lines. Firstly, the protection of our borders, secondly, the deportations, the returns of those who are not entitled to international protection. Thirdly, the functioning of closed controlled centres instead of the open structures that we inherited and fourthly, the internationalisation of the crisis in the European Union and the other international forums. SYRIZA's colleagues see today what border guards mean, a concept which in 2015 impacted the party's ideological strangles, as well as their obsessed officials. But today, Mr. Tsipras welcomes and I am glad that this is happening, because in 2015 we experienced over a million refugees and immigrants passing on Greek territory. Mr Tsipras proposed - and I heard the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 - that Greece veto, he says, at all. It reminds me, ladies and gentlemen, the economic policy of SYRIZA, the 2015 Varoufakia, which you said you would veto everything, in the end you accepted everything, in the end we reached the third memorandum. The European Union does not function like this, it does not operate with populism. Instead, our country coordinates is at the forefront of negotiating in the European Union to support Greek positions, for the new Immigration and Asylum Pact. We saw the Presidents of the three pillars of the European Union here the day before yesterday, in Greece, in practical terms showing their support for our country. Yesterday, at the Internal Affairs Council, Greece received full support for the actions of our Government, which we are achieving firmly in a way that makes our country an equal interlocutor. And yesterday the Council of Ministers rejected Turkish provocativeness, supported Greece in its positions on border protection. I put the statement from the Council of Ministers of the European Union in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr.Notis Metarakis presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It confirmed our country's firm position that Greece's borders are the common borders of the European Union. Europe is next to Greece. Greece is at the forefront of the crisis and our priority now is the protection of borders and support of this effort by every means. Greece believes that this crisis needs to be addressed at European level. Europe must actively show European solidarity. We have already set ourselves in the early days of the Mitsotakis Government's governance the need to move refugees and migrants from our country to the countries of the European Union in a proportionate way, especially in terms of unaccompanied ones. We submitted a written request on 10 September 2019, with a specific request per country to share two and a half thousand unaccompanied minors. I put the letter in the Minutes, the written request by the Mitsotakis Government, on the sharing of refugees in the countries of the European Union. [[At this point, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr.Noti) Metarakis submits for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Regarding the management of the crisis, Greece has put in writing the request for compulsory movements of refugees as the basis of the new Migration Pact. I submit the letter from the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum of 27 January 2020 calling in writing for a balanced burden-sharing in the countries of the European Union. [[At this point, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr.Notis Metarakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even more, with the act of legislation, our country raises a question of European solidarity, invoking Article 78(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which will continue to be defined as the crisis is evolving, as we know the consequences of this crisis. Of course, thanks to the Mitsotakis Government, ladies and gentlemen, we do not experience the 2015 situations, tens of thousands do not cross our borders every day. On the contrary, right now, no one goes through. We're holding the line of defense at the border. Nevertheless, it is also a given part of the negotiation that our country's written request for compulsory proportional movements of migrants to the countries of the European Union is made. In the debate on the new regulation, we are at the forefront of the negotiations. The immediate crucial thing, of course, is that Turkey respects its obligations, those resulting from the joint communication, which must first facilitate returns in the future, and secondly, that it does not lead to today's unacceptable congestion on the Aegean islands, this congestion that you, in SYRIZA, signed in 2016. You accepted the geographical restriction that led to the current suffocating situation in the Aegean islands. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, with today's amendment we continue to strive to speed up asylum procedures, to try to reduce flows. And I must stress that the Ministry of Interior, with its amendment, amends the Code of Citizenship, removing an unacceptable prediction that, while a legitimate immigrant may, in seven years, apply for naturalisation, a person who has come in accordance with the asylum procedure could do so in three years, and that would function willingly. That is why our country has finally become the favorite destination of traffickers. While traffickers took Europe's streams from other countries, from 2015 onwards - and with various legislative initiatives that have taken place - our country became the traffickers' line. That stops today. We are also taking other measures, with an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. Article 4 contributes decisively to the decongestion of the structures of the islands and of the housing programmes. To date, someone who had taken asylum remained in structures for a long time. Someone who had taken asylum for a long time received benefits in kind and in cash, and that created an attractive environment for those who illegally came to our country. We are introducing short deadlines for the exit of thirty days from the structures, of those who have received international protection, and we are interrupting benefits in kind and in cash for them. We are in cooperation with international organisations to implement this provision. Anyone who has taken asylum now has to be financially independent and work, as do Greek citizens. We maintain the ELIOS programme for their integration, but in the context of our economic potential. It remains, of course, a special provision for minors until adulthood. We have recently launched a new programme for minors, reducing by 60% the cost of accommodation of minors. This means that within March they will leave the Aegean islands of those who have received asylum and are still staying in structures. It is estimated that 11 thousand more people receive benefits, while they are no longer asylum seekers and a thousand of them are on the islands. In addition, within March, those who entered our country in 2018 and before, move from the five Aegean islands to the islands of the Aegean for humanitarian reasons. That's about a thousand other people. So two thousand people leave the Aegean Islands in March, as they leave the Aegean Islands in March, those who entered illegally since 1 March and have already left the second half of 2019 of the islands 12 thousand ninety-five people, the first two months of 2020 have left the Aegean Islands six thousand and seventy-four people. Some ten thousand people, therefore, will have left the Aegean Islands in the first quarter of 2020. We saw the statistics in February. Now, at the end of February, fewer people living in the islands are left in the structures of the islands than they lived in December. We have now reached a stable process of substantial decongestion and we will announce other measures for the decongestion of the islands. That is why I call on the SYRIZA colleagues who have made their flag decongested, firstly, to understand that decongestion is already taking place. We have been talking about twenty-two thousand five hundred people since the New Democracy Government took over and now, with the change in the rules of residence, they will be emptying 11 000 jobs. In future, therefore, we will need smaller structures, in relation to the current unacceptable situation, which has caused concern in the islands, but the size of structures depends on the flows, on the speed of asylum and on the speed of exit. We are also correcting the flows with border care, but we are speeding up the asylum procedure, as the primary decisions now come out for twenty-seven days and are now leaving for thirty days and not in many months, as was the case until today. This will play a catalytic role in the situation on the islands. Also, with the same amendment, Article 1 provides for the possibility of opening fixed-term contracts to cover staff needs per service and per accommodation structure, so that we can effectively serve the existing and any new structures. We provide for simpler procedures for the transfer and secondment of officials to the Ministry of Immigration under Article 2. There is provision for the process of developing Information Systems, as it is particularly critical to have a full record so that we can move forward with the decongestion of the islands. We are creating sub-government positions at the Asylum Service and the First Reception Service, because they are currently managing a very large volume of residents, a very large volume of asylum applications and needs an organisational structure, and with the Presidential Decree of the Ministry of Immigration, which will be tabled next month, the reorganisation and administrative structure of the services will be completed. We recommend a State Legal Adviser's Office to the Ministry and also extend for two years the provisions of Law 4412/2016 on the implementation of actions of the EOT. We have announced that there will be a special programme, financed with 2 million euros from the Ministry of Tourism, to support the Aegean islands, which face the burden of the migratory crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is addressing the immigration issue with determination. With the unity of the Greek people, with the design we are planning, this problem will be tackled decisively in 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u468	And we thank the Minister. Two parliamentary representatives, Mr Kegeroglu and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, have called for the floor. Let's start with Mr. Kegeroglu, as requested. Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu. You have the floor for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u469	That's all?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u470	What exactly do you want? To place for something specific, to ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u471	We asked a question, Mr President, a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u472	But I give the floor to Mr. Kegeroglu to explain exactly what he wants. Should it be placed? Ask? In the context of a particular period of time, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u473	If Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou wants a minute, give her the floor. I want to exercise the right to dentistry as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u474	Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u475	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mitsarakis, Minister, I have listened very carefully and because I have liked you for all these years, I believe that you are obviously talking about a different country and other circumstances. First of all, it is not thanks to the Mitsotakis Government that the establishment, the re-establishment, after the abolition of your own ministry. It is, of course, a positive fact, but it is also the biggest confession of the failure, the revolt and the ideas that the Mitsotakis Government had all these seven months. Your mathematics, I have to say, I'm in trouble. You talked about thousands of relocations and decommissioning from the islands. I had the pleasure of coming to both your island and Kos and Chios. I do not have the same information, and I do not have the same idea, although I have visited the same structures as refugees. That is why, because I imagine that you are speaking with responsibility from the Step of the National Representation, we will be making an official request tomorrow for documents, because we would like the figures you mentioned officially, to tell us which structures were moved and where they went. Because at least the figures we have, not from the SYRIZA executives, but from the structures themselves - to say features - of Moria, from five thousand seven hundred who were on 7 July, are talking about over twenty-five thousand right now. The second issue. You spoke about the request you made as a government, you told us in September, after you submitted it, that there would be relocation procedures and that of the future change of the Dublin Agreement during the German Presidency. We would like to know how you respond to what the Commissioner for Home Affairs said yesterday in Brussels, at the moment when we have the crisis in Evros, where all the leaders of the European institutions came here and rightly came. We have welcomed it, but it is not enough. What is important today is that there should be concrete sanctions for Turkey, which is currently completely undermining the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration. That is why we have also called for a Council summit and we hope that tomorrow Mr Denktash will raise these issues and, of course, there will be a commitment from Europe to relocation and not just the funds given to become new centres in our country. So how do you respond to what the Commissioner responsible said? Are you confusing her? We would be interested to hear the Greek Minister and we have every reason to believe you. Thirdly, as far as the amendment is concerned. Minister, we cannot understand. You are bringing an amendment of this kind. We may have some partial remarks on administrative matters, as they are within. I'm not going to stand on this, I'm going to stand on Article 3. On what basis do you come now and go to one month from six months ago, which you, too, accepted a few months ago and which applied to the housing, support and hospitality of those who have already taken asylum and are protected refugees? What logic do you get to do this in a month? Have the logic of building new hosting centres, extending the HELIOS programme, the "ESTIA" programme to support you wholeheartedly here and in Europe. You told us you got 700 million, we'd like to say good-bye. Create new structures and support programs. After you've taken more money, would you come to say that you're reducing the support from six months, which you, as government a few months ago, confirmed, in one month? So where are you sending these people who have been identified as refugees? Minister, we must be responsible and serious. We want to support responsibly and seriously, when there is a project that is responsible, serious, demanding in Europe and respecting, of course, the International Law and the Geneva Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u476	Good. We will give Mr Kegeroglu the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u478	But I'm sorry now. You have asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative, Mr Kegeroglu. The Special Rapporteur now takes the floor, apparently to ask what you wanted. Isn't that what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no. Mr. Kegeroglu will be seconded. I asked the Minister a question. But he was absent now and I want to fill out my question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u480	All right, all right. Submit your question and then give the floor to Mr Kegeroglou for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Before we asked, Minister, you were transferred, you saw the questions - if the High Commissioner is aware of them and if he was asked about this move, about what you are bringing under Article 3 to your amendment. You didn't answer that, I didn't hear that. Of course, Minister, we have asked what your exact plan is. So, for the thirty days and after this is over, you take them and take them where? First of all, what do you take them for? You take them by the line boat, by the whistle, by the fisherman, by the net, by what? Then you take them where? Or do you let them go wherever they want, that is, you actually break them down in the mainland and you let them do what and live out how people who don't speak Greek, people who don't know anyone, people who are being channelled into different parts of the country, so can we think about infringing with that? So, what, first, is your plan to channel these people? How many are you going to channel in this way and where? And do you have structures ready to put these people in or will they walk around the squares of Attica, Panteleimon, Larissa, Katerini and everywhere? So we'll have new little Morris again. It does not seem strange to you that they will be created on other terms, on their own terms and not on our own terms. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u483	The Minister's up to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u484	Excuse me, didn't you ask why? Minister, because Mr. Kegeroglu, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u485	He must have been covered by his own best man!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u486	Yes, but now, Mr. Kegeroglu will probably take the floor later, he will put on issues related to your portfolio, i.e. migrants and refugees, and we will now play the kitty. That is why I said those of the Members of Parliament who have said that they should be put to the vote so that you can give an answer in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u487	Mr President, I would also like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u488	In the end. Pick up the whole picture. Well, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr President. We are, of course, discussing a bill concerning a serious area. The bill does not respond to the needs of local government today. It resolves individual issues, settles outstandings and tries to deal with problems, which were caused in the past by distorted legislation, but cannot be described as an overall response concerning the need for local government today to strengthen, in order to contribute to the great effort that needs to be made in the country for development and social cohesion. It therefore has the value of the provisions themselves, as recommended by the government, and of course we criticised the crucial issue concerning development agencies. Instead of having a competent staff, and through short-term procedures, if you want, under the supervision of the IAS, the technical services, the economic services of the municipalities, so that they can respond and carry out a project of development, administrative, contracts and everything that has to do with local planning, you create a second organisation, by pressing on to a regulation of the previous regime, which, in order for it to be implemented, will be sufficient time and, above all, will create parallel structures without control of the municipalities, without control of the citizens, without control of the public, replacing the role of local government and of course, as we have said many times, by re-establishing an army of converters, contractors, seasonal or whatever is called. It will take some time to see how a subject will also be settled with a huge number of people working in self-government, without stable work, without the features of regular staff. In this sense, these organisms, which are created, will open up a new negative chapter for local government and administration in our country. We call on you, at least at the last hour and at the same time, if you wish, to proceed with the staffing of the respective services of the municipalities and the operation will show what needs to be done. Self-government and municipalities accountable to citizens, citizens, not only every four years, but also every year through the accountability process, and of course through municipal councils regularly to the public or some administrative councils, which are not actually accountable anywhere? Because that is what is happening in practice. I come to other issues which are trying to deal with, and indeed exist, as I have said, but which are not dealt with in the integrated form that should be. We have the issues relating to the constituents' status, as we have always said. Partially regulates issues. I believe that Article 13, which concerns out-of-court movements either mayors or collective bodies of self-government, should finally be abolished - I recalled it again - by the SYRIZA, which prohibits self-government from having the necessary mobility, in order to implement its purpose and work, in other words, to those elected to act uninterruptedly. An amendment for this purpose has been tabled by SYRIZA. He undertakes to testify because he caused this problem. In any case, we, with the necessary adjustments, say that this matter must be seen and solved, Minister. At the same time, there is a need to regulate a matter relating to the penalties that had previously been in force for a related movement issue. I'm saying this together, because it's about moving. You solve this, but unfortunately you are putting it as a competent body to confirm that the body which sent them to fire must be resolved. Is that possible? You can't do that. In Article 25, the provision you add, after 'when', instead of saying that the instrument, which is the coordinator of the region, the decentralised administration, will make this statement, the facts will have to be confirmed by the competent body, by the CEDEFOP, for example, by the municipality. This amendment, if you do so after 'if', I think that this problem is solved in full. We have corrected two - three things from what you have already put in the amendment and others have been tabled with amendments, such as penalties for electoral expenditure. It is perhaps the first amendment tabled by three parties, which has never happened before. First, there was a ban on cross-party amendments being tabled, now on an initiative taken by former mayors, we have two intergroup amendments on both the question of penalties, but also on the question of the fate of the current development companies and will not proceed with this procedure provided for by law. I think we both have to be accepted. I make a brief comment on the 'Help at Home' programme. Minister, before moving on to the new structure and operation of "Help at Home", as it had started and was implemented in the previous period on the basis of what we decided in 2013 and 2014 and then developed by legislative arrangements, you put a burrito. What do you think? That workers in the "Help to Home" program can, by decision of the mayor, do more jobs, go to cleanliness, go to the vice mayor's work, to the head of service. Please very much. Before an upgraded "Help at Home" is in the social service of the municipality, as we have agreed, you put a bourgeoisie on it. This must be stopped. Also, in due course, see the issue of CIDs and CIDs - ACEs that you have not seen. I come to the point of the amendment by the Ministry of Immigration to close my position. Minister, we have questions that have been asked to you. We didn't get answers. I would like to add this: an amendment is coming, which simply says that I am taking out the structures of those who are now taking the decision to protect those who are taking asylum. So they leave structures to serve the need to integrate others. I mean, Rotation. Is that the only target? Get new inside because there's a failure to create new structures? Answer the key question. Do you want them, after they have a permanent right with the decision to protect - housing in Greece, legally remaining in Greece, to acquire rights that Greek citizens have? So what do you say, in short, with the amendment? Instead of European resources, instead of the High Commissioner's resources, which are currently being spent in the transitional period, until they become part of the economic and social life of the country, if they wish, they can be supported so that they do not go to steal, what do you say to them? Go to the CRL, to the guaranteed income, which accepts your application, to be paid from national resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u490	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u491	Is that what you're saying? Do you want to transfer the cost from European funds and from the UN High Commissioner for Budgets to the national budget? These are issues that you need to answer, because only your decision to get them out of the center is equivalent to what Mrs Ligoli told you earlier, the creation of virtually every neighborhood, in every city, in every village of a new Moria. You have to have a plan, tell us what to do with them all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u492	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u493	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u494	Wait a minute. I'll give you the floor. It's not a matter. I want to let Mr. Metarakis know. Mr. Metarakis, after Mr. Heta, you'll take the floor, won't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u495	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u496	Here, Mr. Heta, do you have the floor for a minute, two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u497	For one and a half minutes, Mr President. Thank you very much. I want to ask, because he's the Minister here for the procedure. The issues are serious and the moments are critical. Mr. Metarakis, I have listened very carefully. But I really want you to answer some questions that we will ask if it is easy. I think that, because it is the moments of crisis and there is a need for national consensus on these difficult and serious issues, that we need to take care of what we say and the picture we present in general. You said in an attempt to win the impressions and the communication, which I respect to some extent, that no one crosses the border. Speaking of this, you give the impression that at the moment there is no human being going through it. I'll tell you that the day before yesterday only two thousand were spent on our islands in one day: Two thousand people, Mr. Mitaraki, on our islands by boat, in two days. Let Evros go. Two thousand people! You're talking about decongestion of islands. Who doesn't want it? It's something you hadn't chosen as a solution. Now you're coming back, because now the situation has arrived in the unprecedented. The reasonable question that arises and must be answered is this: are these people who are going, Mr Mitarakis? Where are these people going? You said that you speed up asylum and give them to society - so you said - and they should be economically independent. Ten thousand people, who will leave until March. Mr. Metarakis, I'm shaking the idea of getting ten thousand out of them without a job. Christ and God bless you! I don't know what they're gonna do on Greek territory. I'm shaking where they're going, what they're gonna eat, where they're gonna break, what they're gonna steal. I don't know. I shiver the idea of ten thousand people, which you say should be financially independent, who live in tolerance and have been in some unacceptable circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u498	Questions, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u499	And I'll be done. You also said that we would need smaller structures. One last thing, Mr. Metarakis. Answer me that. For smaller structures, not to tell them in here, not only look at those who come out, who don't know where they're going, but also see those who come from our islands. There is the diversion: our islands, Minister. That's Erdogan's game. Can I tell you something else? Answer me what's going to happen with Rodopolis in Serres. The world is a resurrection. In a village of eight hundred people you go a thousand illegal immigrants, next to a kindergarten. Take this decision back, because you know very well that, as with the MATs and what happened on the islands with the order, as with the NGOs, and here the world will react and do it eventually.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u500	Good. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor. I'll put five minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u501	There's a lot of them. First of all, thank you very much for the questions. Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, and I like you. Thank you very much for your very kind words. However, we shall now proceed to the substance of the points you have raised. I specifically told you about the decongestion of the islands that twelve thousand movements have been made in the second half of 2019, six thousand two trips have been made in the first two months of 2020. We have announced today a thousand people who will leave because they have taken asylum with the amendment tabled by the government. We have said that for humanitarian reasons they will be transferred to vacant posts in existing structures in the interior of a thousand people on the islands before 1-1-2019. So the maximum stay on the islands will be about fourteen months. This contradicts an argument for disinformation which is heard in local societies that there is a permanent stay on the islands, communities, minorities or other such expressions are created. The maximum number on the islands is fourteen months. Our aim - and we are already doing so with the new asylum procedure - is to go to six months and perhaps even below. In other words, those who take asylum on the islands can leave in two months at the latest, those who do not take asylum have a final decision by the Board of Appeal to return either to Turkey, in the context of the agreement I know it is a matter of discussion today, or directly to the countries of origin. In this also, Greece plays a very important role in the planning of the European Union's common return policy under the new regulation, so they will leave at six months. So the average stay on the islands is going to four months. With the average stay of four months, with the new border guarding policy on the islands they will need much smaller structures than the situation actually prevailing on the islands at the moment and prevailing in 2019. I told you before, in my speech, that today on the structures at the end of February 2020, there are marginally fewer - not much less, but marginally fewer - than they were at the end of December 2009. So decongestion has started from now on and will also leave the islands, those who entered illegally on 1 March 2020, and that will play a role in the decongestion of the islands and we are planning new initiatives for further decongestion. Therefore, in the first quarter of 2020, more than ten thousand asylum seekers will have left the islands. Because you said, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, that you will apply for documents, so as not to trouble you, I will now give you the newsletter published by the Ministry yesterday. It's also on the Ministry's website. I am presenting for the minutes the information, which is already known. I imagine you've already received it. [[At this point, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr.Notis Metarakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What I find very steep in Mrs Xinoyanakopoulou's speech and in the speech of the Special Rapporteur of the Movement, but also in the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, is that, on the one hand, we all agree on the decongestion of the islands - you have all made a flag of the decongestion of the islands - but when a provision for the decongestion of the islands comes, you get second thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u502	Where are they going?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u503	Please, let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u504	Where are they going, we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u505	Where are you taking them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u506	Allow me. I'll answer everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u507	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u508	So we, as a government, think that we should apply our country's international obligations. Our country's international obligation is to provide benefits in kind and money to asylum seekers. Anyone receiving asylum is now financially independent under international conditions. SYRIZA may want to have them forever in apartments that will be paid by the state or by international organisations or give them lifetime benefits. It's a proposition. If you want, you can do it. If the Change Movement agrees with this, if the Greek Solution thinks that those who enter Greece should live alive are fed by the Greek state, you should say it as a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u509	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u510	Where are they going?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u511	We disagree. We believe that international law should be implemented. International law is that the asylum seeker is coming out. He'll go where anyone's looking for a job. He has the right to work, he has the right to legal residence in our country, he has the right to receive a travel document...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u512	This? Greece is the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u513	Wherever they want, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u514	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u515	Could you not interrupt me, ladies and gentlemen? If you disagree with what we are doing, I will make a proposal to you: do not vote on the amendment, if you disagree. I'm making this proposal for you. Greece is not protected by populism. It's protected by decisions. The decisions sometimes also want courage in life. That's what the government does.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u516	(Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u517	Please, there's no record of anything you're saying. Calm down. Don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u518	On the one hand, you are claiming to the islanders who are following us that you want to leave the structures of the world and decongested and, on the other, complain and complain, because the government is coming and is cutting off the right of residence, the right to cash benefits to those who are not entitled to it. We do, because these are our country's international obligations and we do so deliberately. From there on, the person receiving asylum has the right to work, to legal residence and receives travel documents. He can do whatever he wants, and if he doesn't have an income...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u519	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u520	He has a right to request the minimum guaranteed income. You said, Mr Kegeroglu, and it was very serious what you said, quite rightly, that you will make them out of the money that the High Commissioner gives. The European Union is giving it to Greece, we are giving it to the High Commissioner. We want to use these eleven thousand beds for people who are on the island today. We choose to take 11 000 more people from the islands and take them to the structures that are currently left by those who are not entitled to it. You who are talking about decongestion are suggesting that we keep in those structures that have no right to stay, continue to live in Moria, in Vial and in the deep world that can leave. Why? To make opposition? We're making a difficult decision. And I know there are reactions. You asked me if we asked the High Commissioner. We have informed the international organisations to do what is good for our own place. We're not taking anyone's permission. I hope that doesn't bother you. We do what we consider the Greek Government to be the best for our own country. So it is clear now that the person receiving asylum has a right over there, after thirty days to be financially independent or to go to the minimum guaranteed income and follow from there on. Isn't there any predictions? There's a prediction. There is the HELIOS programme, the financial possibilities we have for the HELIOS programme - we will not take them from elsewhere to give them to the HELIOS - which gives apartments for some time, training and assistance to these people to join society. So for us, this is the objective: to dismantle our islands and at the same time to guard the borders, at the same time to deport those who are not entitled to international protection, at the same time to internationalise the crisis. The European Union and we are at the forefront of the new Asylum Regulation. That's our policy. This will deal with the crisis. It's a critical situation and it needs unity. In Serres, we have contacted the mayor, with the Vice-President, with the MPs, we have found a solution and I am sure he will support it. I'm sure you'll support it for them to leave the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u521	The mayor is against what you're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u522	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u523	If you prefer to stay on the islands, say so. Because in politics, Mr Colleague, great words. And Mr. Varoufakis and others thought that the big words would save the country, but politics wants difficult decisions. I want to make it difficult for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u524	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u525	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u526	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor, and then Mr Gregoriadis has the floor. Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, wait a minute. It's a long list. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u527	Just a minute, really. Minister, first of all, do not twist our words. And on the other hand, it was cynical your own approach. We clearly want to encourage you, and all this time we have done, to encourage you to start relocations for the decongestion of the islands, and you will do well. And I wish we could see that happen. From there on, why does this conflict with your own provision of being six months in order to have a normal social integration and support for recognised refugees? You mentioned the HELIOS programme, which really supports social inclusion. This is what we expect you to bring us such a plan. And when you come and say here that at the moment you have secured 700 million more of which will soon be the first 350 million, you can do both, decongestion and normal social integration. So you have no reason to reduce the support for thirty days, when you yourself had established six months and then clearly go further and decongested. And I would remind you that you did not reply to me on the statement by the Commissioner for Home Affairs, which states to a journalist's question that there is no government request at this time for relocation, solidarity and burden-sharing from Greece to the other European Union countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u528	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u529	I will need less than a minute, Mr President. Minister, because, as is the case recently in the Greek Parliament, you mentioned our Chief, our Secretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u530	With sympathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u531	I guess I hope that's mutual. But it really didn't have anything to do with this. In the course of the debate, I have a question for you: Apart from our national leaps to the UN High Commissioner for Home Affairs, who writes it in our old shoes when we are going to protect rackets and hunters in the European Union - because you are missing before I asked it from the Stephen of Parliament - no veto are you going to exercise? Next week, if it doesn't bother, tell me why we can stop all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Gregoriadis, at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u533	We can stop her, but we have to have some veto. And a fine veto is next week the general budget of the European Union. Can't as you know, go without us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u534	Mr. Kegergulou, you have the floor for a minute strict, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u535	Thank you, Mr President. A number of questions have not been answered by the Minister. The European Union-Turkey agreement, which is suffering, has suffered - now we are experiencing the catastrophic effects and will continue to produce negative results if decisions are not taken by the European Union - it will not let a project as it is written, let alone when there is no complete plan. We therefore want you to answer the following questions, more specifically, after your placement: people are leaving, they are coming out of structures to get others in. Someone on the island has to take them to the mainland. We told you where the budget is, where the tickets are, where the means are, you didn't tell us if they were provided from somewhere. The second is, if the ones for alpha or beta speech, because of their understanding as free citizens now and resident in our country on equal rights, go and "fuck" into a square, if you let them go, because that is what they see as more appropriate now when the weather opens, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u536	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u537	And I say this because it is better to provide for and say that for these people who choose to stay in Greece, for those who really have interest and we give protection and decision to the end, we have to have a social and economic integration plan. If there is no social and economic integration plan, then we do a hole in the water, it simply changes their character, they are not called immigrants, they are called asylum seekers, people are said to be protected and sitting in the school yard, one or the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u538	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u539	The second thing you need to tell us is whether, in fact, according to your statement and in my view, because that is what it is, it seems to be, they have the right to the guaranteed rent and subsidy within the next thirty days to change, to integrate socially, to have the approval of this procedure so that problems do not arise. If you do not think so, which is not the case three to four months ago to see euros or to see a rental subsidy, you need to provide for something for this period, a procedure that will be included. We're waiting for your answers in relation to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u540	Good. Minister, you have the floor. Finally, the Minister will continue with the Members on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u541	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, I think we all agree that our priority must be the decongestion of the islands. If this amendment is not passed and it remains, in six months, it means that those who take asylum or who have already taken asylum will be left for six months longer. I cannot support the fact that the people who have already taken refuge can stay longer on the islands. The islands must be dismantled. In politics too, they also need choices. Mr Kegeroglu quite rightly said that there are difficulties in thirty days for these people to join. Perhaps it poses a problem in our country's image as a final destination. Maybe. There is the ELIOS programme, there is the social state, there are support mechanisms. But from there on we can't keep eleven thousand people in structures when we have eleven thousand in the islands sleeping under trees. I think that's what we'll agree on. Nor is it a solution unless you imply that this is the solution, that we fill Greece with structures. If the solution you propose is to fill Greece with structures to stay and those who are not entitled, for too long, the structures in our country are for asylum seekers only. And normally, no one should be left in any structure for more than four months. Our country normally had to have few structures. The whole need for the structures was created, because with SYRIZA's legislation it was impossible to complete the process and they were staying for many years for asylum seekers. That's why this congestion was created. And that is why the first actions of the Mitsotakis Government were to change the law of asylum. On the question of Mrs Johanson's requests, I spoke to Mrs Johanson a moment ago to clarify exactly what? I said clearly in my speech that Greece with the present government has twice made written requests for moves, a general institutional and a specialist. We have said by legislative act that we shall invoke Article 78.3. We have not invoked a specific call for a very simple strategic reason, that we are still in the middle of the crisis process. We do not know specifically what we need at the moment. In order to make travels and request for travel, this period of increased intensity must be completed. When the situation of increased intensity is completed and this situation is stopped at the border...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u542	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u543	We hold the border as long as necessary. The European Union as a whole, Greece, is at the forefront of pushing Turkey to meet international obligations. When this situation is completed - and the number you gave is completely wrong about the islands - when we have the final picture, if there is a problem... We don't want the 2015 problem to happen and get in a million. Finally you requested 2016, if I remember, and you moved twenty - one thousand people out of one million. The move of SYRIZA with article 78.3 was about twenty - one thousand people when a million entered. So, right now, we're waiting. We have made the written request as Ministry of Immigration and Asylum on 27 January to Mrs Johanson. There were also emergency measures on unaccompanied grounds of social sensitivity on the Council yesterday. The general framework will be seen at the European Council when the situation is clear and we know exactly what we need. We will ask for the maximums that Greece needs. Don't worry about that. You also said about the blackmail veto thing. Mr. Tsipras said so too. You've started to agree again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u544	I said that first, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u545	In Greece in 2015 this was your economic policy. Extortion veto, you said everything. Finally, you didn't veto anywhere and we went to the third memorandum. The truth is, in the bigs' field, this is not how reality works. Our country is a reliable interlocutor and calls for what it needs and we will take what is needed in the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u546	Mr George Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Kotrias will be followed by Mr. Viliardos, Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u547	Thank you. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, because, as I have said, the debate on the draft law has been exhausted in his articles, I will strengthen the arguments for some of the insults of the draft law. First of all, this draft law helps to ensure that self-government plays a role for a developer beyond and outside its classic role, which is to serve the citizen, the businessman and to meet its daily needs. That's a real strategy. All the others are arrangements or arrangements that are also necessary. In this context, the proposed arrangements strengthen self-government capacity and speed up the necessary procedures by focusing on the result by means of a vehicle of professionalism. I shall refer in particular to the specific articles of the bill that I am well aware of, and I can assess their usefulness and impact on the development of self-government, but also on its development prospects, a perspective that should have a focus on human and the environment, two concepts which should be spread over the policies that are being implemented. What are we looking forward to? We look forward to a self-supported and sustainable development based on, supported and planned by local society, the local partnership, which must improve its capacity through a comprehensive improvement of all the factors affecting it. Ladies and gentlemen, local government can be the driving force behind the country's growth potential with an emphasis on endogenous development policies, green development in innovation, subsidiarity, resource savings and, finally, we forget this many times and this is very important in the role of self-government - the integration of the spatial dimension into the regional development process. As is clear, however, every effort should be based on those who are the subject of development, namely local societies. A fundamental prerequisite for this is to ensure the necessary institutional and administrative balance, so that growth is sustainable and self-powered, and also to have the necessary support mechanisms that play an accelerated role, as we usually say, in the development process. Such mechanisms are multi-participating development companies and the promoted under this draft law Local Government Development Organisations, which may also arise as a development of development companies, because the work generated by them has been positively evaluated. They will, therefore, continue through their successful action to link their prospects, which are very important, ladies and gentlemen, with the prospects of the regions where they operate, that is, with the success of local societies in the effort to develop globally. After all, they are, as I usually say, the convergence point, namely the point of the local partnership agreement in the region where they operate for the way and the process of promoting local development and local interests. They support self-government in its aspects, namely the planning and implementation of development projects. They also support entrepreneurship as the only option for creating sustainable jobs and income. That is why they act as a adhesive, I would say, between the two levels, public and private, reflecting the best of each sector. At regional, but also local level, they operate and are nucleus of pooling know-how and, above all, of people who have decided to stay in their homes. The matching of their course with the course of the area in which they operate is also an important incentive for continuous improvement. A characteristic of these is that they are expressly prohibited to benefit directly or indirectly from local government agencies and the public. Since, as I said before, they are the local accelerators, this is why the effort being made through the draft law to strengthen their role and utility, to strengthen the necessary flexibility and, ultimately, to liberalise their production dynamics is absolutely in line with me. On the front of the development that we need to have and which our country needs, we hope that they will have an even stronger and substantial role with allies of society and its institutions. They went with them, they should keep going. After all, European policies converge on this issue and strengthen their respective mechanisms. In particular, in the process of upward development, they had an essential role to play in supporting the necessary policies, while in the new regulations their enhanced continuation is provided for. By focusing now on some articles in the draft law, I say that Article 3 is fully and well-structured. Of course, I'm not analyzing it because you have it in front of you anyway. The removal of paragraph 16.1 has already been promoted through the legislative arrangements you have presented to us. The provisions of Articles 4 and 5 shall enhance the capacity and effectiveness of the municipalities and regions through horizontal support with the intended bodies and accelerate the production of development work by making use of complementarity, a necessary tool, a necessary concept. It is positive to provide for the assignment of duties of paid special advisors, mayors, regional directors to scientists or specialists, or who have proven experience in matters of local government. Why wonder about the unpaid provision of services? Don't we all want to act together? Do we not want to look at the same point, contribute each other on its side? When that happens, we criticise it. When it is not done, we say that we do not let the citizens help each other with their share of the money. In conclusion, the provision of the setting-up of special advisers or special partners will also make the municipality's activities more functional, extroverted and more dynamic. How do we want the local development producers when the vice mayors, the counter-regions, too, do not have the people who will shift knowledge to everyday productive value? That is not possible. So - and by closing down, Mr President - this draft law creates a framework for results, which, of course, will be judged like the self-government which this draft law serves. To conclude, I would like to say that expressions which have been heard by the previous speaker, SYRIZA, which do not actually reflect what is provided for in the draft law, have been answered by Mr Livano, the Deputy Secretary-General, and I think it would be good for them to reflect the reality in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u548	Mr Georgios Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u549	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill aspires and will succeed in restoring the malfunctions of local government and resolving its hands to two main issues, firstly, the management and use of its staff and, secondly, the production of a project. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the mayors are coming out to do a job and not to be troubled and misled in a wave of bureaucracy. Everyone says and argues that they believe in local government and that they recognise its development role. Today trying to work efficiently and quickly, they appear cautious and opposing. Those who have served in local government know that, once it started to carry out a major project for the region, the time taken by the conception, study, tendering and implementation was too great, and this was mainly due to the lack of qualified scientific staff in the municipalities, which was necessarily not enriched due to a memorandum and which would draw up the basic studies of the project, is due to the lack of certified financial staff who would have integrated it into a financial or European programme and the necessary specialised scientific staff, which would supplement with specific studies that required some specialised projects in the basic study of the project. Even in large municipalities study assignments to specialized scientists required many and long-term procedures, since municipal services - as I said - did not have the specialisation required by certain specific projects. As a result, several municipal authorities, especially in municipalities that did not have certified technical and economic services, were within a term of office unable to complete this work, with unfavourable consequences for both local authorities themselves and fundamentally for societies, which did not enjoy the work of improving their quality of life. On the other issue of municipal staff, the multi-advertised mobility that would provide a solution to the subsistence of small municipalities, mountainous and disadvantaged island municipalities, but which would make a better distribution of staff to all municipalities in the country is well known, not only has it produced results, but in some cases it has given exactly the opposite results, as we have heard from this Step today and from my colleague Mr Zebilis. I live in these two key factors for self-government, which are directly related to its operation, better service delivery and better production of work, factors that fail and suffer, which the bill that comes to the vote heals and improves, introducing modern, flexible and effective tools, always respecting existing legislation at all levels. The Committee on Local and Regional Development is thus set up as the Higher Advisory Body of the Ministry of Interior with rapporteurs. Secondly, technical assistance is being introduced to both the management services of the special development programmes of the Ministry of the Interior and the municipalities. Thirdly, there is provision for the establishment of Local Government Development Bodies as flexible and innovative legal entities of LAGs 1 and 2, to which the implementation and implementation of development programmes is entrusted. Fourthly, a pioneering system is introduced to assist the technical services of OTAs through programmatic contracts with the technical services of the Hellenic Society of Local Government and the Economic Management Units, MSUs, development agencies and networks of the municipalities so that the procedures for awarding, study and supervision can be quickly initiated, without - note - no derogations from Law 4412/2016, which, as I said before - have been immobilised as a result of the sub-station and in some cases mountain and island municipalities of the total absence of technical services of OTAs. Fifthly, a new framework for cooperation between local authorities is being introduced, and the LAGs and their specific legal persons can now contribute to the exercise of local government competences to provide high-level services to citizens. Sixth, a register of local government data is first established to record all their assets and financial operations in order to develop effective and targeted development policies. Seventhly, significant changes are introduced to the institutional framework of local government in the Code of Municipalities and Communities in the "KALIKORAT" and "KLITHENI", with a view to treating pathogenesis in the economic and administrative functioning of OTAs. With regard to public administration and mobility issues, taking into account the malfunctions observed during the implementation of previous mobility cycles, where the main feature was the absence of a central overall programming of public services staff and, secondly, procedures that had not been completed in the specified time horizon, with the result that applications for relocation - secondment have not been completed and pending from the first cycles of 2018, thus not covering the needs of the services, the absence of an assessment of the operational needs of the bodies and policy should be placed solely on the safeguarding of the staff member’s right to transfer or secondment, and always involved a risk of subsistence of the services and by extension of their unstable functioning. This draft law attempts to create a central system for the administration of public services, as mobility is now directly linked to the annual planning of recruitment. As regards the matters of public administration, for the first time, legal support is provided by the establishment of the Greek State for the whole human potential of the public body. There are licensing issues specifically for employees who have sick persons in the family. Finally, let me refer very briefly to speeding up the recruitment and operating procedures of the AACC, since it is planned to speed up the work of reducing the sections of the AACC from five to three, the adoption by the AACC and not by the Minister of the Act on the fixed parts of the contents of the post-fill notices and other relevant improvements. I could also refer to other chapters of the bill, but I am sticking to them, which I consider essential for the functioning of the ATTs and the public, and I am very sure this bill, instead of the perfect mess we would have with the implementation of SYRIZA's 'CLOSHEN', aims at strengthening the development planning and strengthening of the development prospects of self-government, eliminating administrative pathogens and bureaucratic claws, the more efficient management of public administration staff, the maximum possible absorption of funds for the benefit of Greek society and Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u550	The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u551	Thank you very much, Mr President. Clearly, immigration has escaped government control. Mr Metarakis confirmed that, unfortunately. When you underestimate a problem, you usually never solve it. In order to avoid distorting information, I will start from the following: Turkey has started building a project that would cover seven hundred and sixty kilometers on the Turkish-Syrian border, a wall height of four metres of concrete, so as to prevent unwanted migration flows for the same Syrian or Kurds on its territory. This wall was completed in 2018 and is currently fully operational, excluding entry to Turkey of refugees from Syria. All the rest comes from Turkey's propaganda mechanism that is trying to terrorise the whole of Europe, with a tsunami of immigrants supposedly moving towards the Turkish border from Syria. In fact, Turkey, in hypocritically wearing the cloak of humanism, is happy to welcome Muslim populations, preferably from Pakistan, from Africa, where it offers air tickets either free of charge or at a symbolic price of EUR 50, to Istanbul, from Afghanistan, from Bangladesh, from Iran and many other Muslim countries. Its ultimate goal is to apply the saying of Ozal, according to which we do not have to make war with the Greeks, as long as we send them a few million on this side and end with them. This is precisely the well-organised draft of the hybrid war against Greece, mainly, but also of Europe. I think here that the comparison of the President of the Greek Solution of the conditions we are experiencing today with those of Istanbul in 1453 was not at all excessive. We are not experiencing an immigration problem, but we are clearly not experiencing Turkey's hybrid migration war. On the issue of ATTs now, the Community's way of governance is interlinked with Greece, it is part of the Greek psychiatry. Since ancient times Greeks have been organized in local communities, in known states - cities. These communities have been spoken about by Kontogiorgis, Karavidis, Kastoriadis, Giannaras and many others. This healthy Community tradition has not been respected by the modern Greek state, which has formed a cackle of Europeans. He created a hydro-headed state in Athens and stripped the province with taxation and immigration. Around this was the small entrepreneurship and self-employment that supported all those who did not fit into the public service in regional services. It is what is now seen by some as a sign of the regression of Greek society, but without providing alternatives. This created a state servant of the few, the governors. One of the first bills now brought by the New Democracy Government was a change in the way the municipalities are governed. His reasoning was dictated by the need to command the municipalities, because the simple analogue had created a landscape where there were no powers of one man or one party, but pluralism, i.e. the municipality. But there was no time for the institution to be tested. As if that were not enough, the referendums were abolished in Article 12. Do you know who abolished the referendums or rather the social, the Community way of governance? The Bavarians in one of the first laws - the third in fact - introduced into the then new Otto State. This law reads as follows: "Conferences of the Assembly of Citizens to a ruling on municipal or other matters are not permitted." I am referring to the law on the recommendation of the municipalities, Kingdom of Greece, since 27-12-1833. This law prescribes who can create a municipality, villages of over three hundred inhabitants, what its revenues are, what the tasks of the elected, how the elections take place and what the municipal revenues are. The text is written in English and German, while English terms are sometimes inserted. The new rulers had to lay down their rules - the present ones as well - so that change, transformation, or discontinuity would take place, by subjecting them to the rules of Hesperia. Today a law is tabled for the development of the municipalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. It is found that the municipalities are in need. The answer is to provide assistance from the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Government, from the Development Agency of Local Government, from the municipality networks and from the Management Unit of S.A. Articles 4 and 5. In other words, the central government will control, obviously beneath those who actually govern Greece, by foreigners again. He is not a democrat, however, who does not want referendums and co-operations. He's not even liberal when he doesn't let the municipalities operate on their own. If they do not have executives, then fail, accept citizens' pressures and appear new powers to replace them, as always happens in the republics, issue bonds like abroad and succeed or fail. Municipal bonds are issued in the United States, known as Municipal Bonds. Even today, when yields are below 1%, there are still municipal bonds worth 1.9 trillion dollars. Have the municipalities been bankrupt in the United States? Of course, such as the City of Detroit in 2013, the largest municipal bankruptcy in the United States with a debt of 18.5 billion dollars. The cause was the collapse of the automobile industry, while bankruptcy led to the reorganisation of the city.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u552	Just be quiet, please, from the ministerial benches! It's a lot of congestion. We're looking at the ministerial benches. The Minister is not listening, the parliamentary representative is speaking, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u553	The ministers of the New Democracy are used to it. We see it every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u554	Go on, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u555	So Detroit's bankruptcy led to the reorganization of the city and its recovery. It was the well-known creative destruction of Subeter, which Greece did not dare in 2010, choosing to rescue the French and German banks, resulting in the rolling bankruptcy that we will experience for many years even the sale of everything to the new owners of the country. It's a painless endless end instead of a painful end. Have municipalities ever been bankrupt in Greece? No, always someone rescues them, the state, increasing their debts, our debts, all of us. I will close with the ELTAs, depositing one of the many articles from 2016 that refers to gray zones and skeletons. I will submit it in the Minutes along with the balance sheet, noting that in 2011 the ELTAs were still profitable with 484 million euros, a huge turnover. Finally, you will not leave any business without bankrupt and sold, DEPA, DESFA, PPC, OSE, airports, ports, “TRAINOSE”, everything. There's nothing left in Greece. Even worse, despite the fact that we are selling out the public debt, it is continuing its upward course, recently at EUR 356 billion. Obviously, it's not something that characterizes a smart country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u556	The next speaker is Mr Vernardakis Christoforos from SYRIZA. Mr Liutas, Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou and Mr Katsis will be followed. This is the next quarter. Here, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u557	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with a little differently, starting with the amendment which has been tabled and which creates an anonymous company for the management and exploitation of the National Garden and the Philippi hill. I think we are in front of a completely outraged paradox. The Philippi hill - the rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, said so - has been an organized archaeological site since 2008 on Minister Michael Liapi. With the amendment of Article 7 of the archaeological law - passed last year - the ownership and management of the archaeological monuments was guaranteed only by the Ministry of Culture or by a legal person governed by public law belonging to the Ministry of Culture. So here we have a public limited company established by the Ministry of Interior, that is, we are overrepresented by the Ministry of Culture, a public limited company which is not part of the Ministry of Culture, nor is it a legal entity governed by public law. And instead of having the ministerial seats on fire to check this amendment - which has been tabled since last night outside the main framework of the law - we were surprised to see the Minister do what he does not understand and leave plenary, and it is a major issue that is happening today. And we must warn, of course, that this will fall, no way! What needs to be done about this unconstitutional and illegal amendment, which is being tabled. Let's go down. Mobility system. Here we have serious counter-reformation and regression. The Mobility Act currently in force identified three mobility cycles. He was even temporary in our own understanding. What do we actually want to do? I would point this out for the sake of a serious debate we have to have at some point. We need to link the public's needs to the career choices of the employees. Could we have a mobility system every day? Of course we could. And with the digital reorganisation of the public, this would be absolutely necessary. So, here, what's going on? We are trying, firstly, to limit mobility. Why? Because mobility in reality is used as a mechanism to meet the major public needs alone. The public has huge needs and will not meet them through mobility. Mobility is an ancillary tool. If the public needs, they should only be covered by new recruitments, targeted, integrated, scheduled in whatever dimension we want. But not through the law of mobility. Right now we're going back, then, instead of going ahead. Instead of going to a system that has many mobility cycles until we have a daily one - which says the word - a mobility system, using digital tools, to connect this internal labour market to the employees' choices and the needs of the public, we are actually going to a mobility cycle so that we are turning more into that old system of transfers, the distractions that went through the Minister's signature, that is, the main mechanism for the reproduction of customer relations within the public sector. The third issue is the system of selection of managers, heads. Here we have a great overthrow of all the conquests with Mr.4369 in a climate of consensus within the public administration. It is the second round of clearing after the abolition of the national register of executives, the reintroduction of political general secretaries and the other arrangements of the State of staff. And quite rightly so, our rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, has said that at some point Mr Gerapetti should come here to explain to us what exactly he is doing with the arrangements of the state of service. Because here it is not just that we have changes. That's fair underneath. Here is that we re-create selection systems entirely differently per Ministry. For example, the Special Management and Implementation Agency of the Ministry of Interior applies another system of selection of heads. Instead of having converging selection systems, we perpetuate differentiations per Ministry. And I would remind you here again of this case of the Ministry of Culture - which tends to become the model of the derogation and of the strange arrangements - where we have choices of heads in his own way outside of Mr.4369, outside of this system that the present government wants to create today. In any case, Mr Gerapetti should come here at any time to explain to us what the hell he is doing with this final state and with the legislature authorities he wanted to put in place. So what do we have with this choice of heads? We have the full reinstatement of the old administrative establishment. Because, precisely the logic that says that I share not the formal qualifications - leave the formal qualifications - not the evaluation, I derogate from and deviate from such a form that now determines the choice, the pre-service, is the best mechanism for reintroducing that old administrative mechanism, the old administrative system, which will of course be rewarded. While it had never been evaluated, while all these management functions had been assigned to it in the public sector, it is currently being financed to a certain extent very strong. In other words, we have a change in the whole of that balanced system. What was the philosophy of L.4369 in selecting staff and staff? It was that none of the criteria should have created an entirely determining factor for the choice. That there can be a medium-term balance so that all elements and evaluation and experience and pre-service and formal qualifications can be balanced. Here we have a complete overthrow of this acquis of public administration. We're going too far back, unfortunately. In my opinion - and I am ending with this - because I have listened to minor issues of consensus and articles that have been quite positive, this proposal as a whole is a model of counter-reformation and an institutional example. In this sense we must be clear about the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior that these arrangements must be re-established on a completely different basis and I hope that this will be done very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u558	Mr Liutas Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u559	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing the honour, thrill and great thanks to the Armed Forces, the Security Body and our critics, in other words, to all those who have given the great fight over the last few days. A struggle that corresponds to our national duty to defend and shield our sovereignty and our borders. It is the struggle that comes up against the absurdity of the work of human life itself. It is the fight that stands across and faces Turkey's raw provocativeness against our country. The reaction and attitude of the Greek Government and our Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, has been immediate and decisive since the first moment. The Prime Minister managed directly here in our home country at the Evros border to gather the European alliance together to defend our national laws in Greece and the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, now in the bill we are discussing today, I would like to stress that consistently and targeted the new arrangements are coming and added to our entire government's strategy for immediate, long-term and sustainable development. At the heart of today's legislative process there is the need for local government and public administration to become a catalyst for development. The regulations on local government demonstrate our immediate effort to develop growth. It is not just the central administration that has a role to play in development. It is a very important role and a key role for local authorities too. At the same time as the regulations in public administration, we focus on the core of the state. They are the arrangements that come and correct distortions so that the public administration can run, by following and supporting our overall development effort. For a modern state it is the prerequisite for a strong economy. It is a prerequisite for sustainable development. In particular, with regard to local government regulations, we are focusing on the region of our country, we are identifying the shortcomings, we are shaping the framework for the decisive implementation of projects. As a guide and objective we always have the least possible time, the least possible bureaucracy, the guarantee of maturation and finally the final implementation of all projects. Today, in the context of a rational and sustainable policy, efficiency and flexibility are key pillars for the development strategy. These pillars make it necessary to establish strategic relations and cooperation, economic, technical and advisory nature. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It is precisely this need that comes to serve the leap that is taking place with regard to development companies. The development of the consultative and developmental role of these companies - called development agencies now - is important. It is important to deal more quickly with projects of valuable and crucial importance to local communities and not just. Through the creation of the workshops, it is targeted and the painful problem facing the public administration, the problem of subscribing the services. Specific references in this direction shall also be made to technical support. The technical departments are crucial for the overall programming, maturation and implementation of one project. It is therefore clear that the scale of the problem, as it arises when these technical sections are either completely absent from the local authorities, whether they are staffed or, finally, when they are not characterised by proper knowledge and appropriate training. The possibility, therefore, of concluding TAA programmatic contracts with TAI, with the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Government, as well as with the other bodies provided, saves the projects and ultimately the development from the lake of inertia and stagnation. The implementation of projects will create jobs, income and infrastructure that can support development and ultimately infrastructures capable of providing added benefits and great value for the smooth and lasting development of our country's social fabric. I would also like to stress the important benefit that the proper implementation of mobility, which comes with this bill, can create for modernising and increasing the efficiency of public administration. Mobility and evaluation procedures have entered the political - and not just - our vocabulary since long ago. These are procedures that lead to the smooth functioning of the public administration, the ability to achieve the objectives of performance and evolution, the confidence between citizens and the state and, ultimately, the clear relationships between workers, officials and officials of the public administration. Unfortunately, in our country, distortions and pathogens have prevailed for too many years for reform and improvement. Today the Government of New Democracy comes and finds one in one of the distortions and gives solutions. With this draft law, it is the process of mobility to run directly, to run effectively this time. Our aim is for mobility not to conflict with institutional or operational obstacles, to deal with sub-commissioning and ultimately to contribute to the balanced development of our national economy. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, our Government once again answers the following question: How are we going to build the modern state necessary to be able to support the development of our economy and the well-being of our society? A few months ago, the same question gave a decisive answer to the bill for the final state, in fact by building, within the state, the objectives of merit and flexibility, the simplification of procedures, acceleration and efficiency. The vote in favour of this draft legislation will therefore lay the foundations for making local government stronger, so that public administration can run, so that we can all move forward in areas that will give our country a fresh impetus. Finally, Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to stress that our thoughts are at the border of our country, where a struggle is taking place to secure our national achievements. We are next to each other, with all our souls, in all those critical times they give this great struggle for our country. We're with them and thank them very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u560	It is now Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u561	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these critical days for our country, the presence of our Prime Minister with Europe's leadership in Evros has acquired a historic dimension, but at the same time also crucial importance for the migration - refugee issue. The thoughts of all of us these days are in our locusts. But in order to take it one step further, Mr Ministers, the thought of all of us over time should be in the Greek region, a region which undoubtedly accepted and lifted a great deal of weight from the crisis. The signs of this crisis still exist. Unfortunately, our countryside is devastated and measures are imposed to halt this phenomenon. It is more than ever necessary to support our fellow citizens in the remote areas, who are literally guarding Thermopylae. A way of achieving this objective is to decentralise and strengthen local government, which is admittedly not an easy case. The Foreign Ministry's bill under discussion is another step in this direction, as well as in the government's attempt to reconstruct and modernise public administration in general, but also to give local government a new development potential. It is very important, Mr Ministers, that the Minister for the Interior himself today in his place said that he would follow another draft law that would strengthen and strengthen the powers of local government even more. With the draft legislation under discussion, first of all, there is a new and powerful tool for development agencies. They are legal persons who will provide all kinds of support to the municipalities and small municipalities, who are often subordinated, and in the regions, and will implement development programmes in order to absorb as much funds as possible for the benefit of all local communities. At this point it was expressed by the Opposition, mainly by the Qualification, that these organizations are not public structures but private companies, and their transparency was also doubted. None of these objections, however, remains. It is clear from the text of the bill that the following insurance safeguards are involved: firstly, private or natural persons or any other form of involvement is strictly prohibited. On the contrary, the share capital includes local authorities, regional associations of municipalities, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, the Committee of Regions, higher education institutions, i.e. only legal entities governed by public law. Secondly, development agencies are supervised by the public. Thirdly, their board of directors is elected by the general meeting of the shares, i.e. by the legal entities governed by public law which are shareholders and are not appointed by the government in question. And in order to avoid the slightest shadow of the transparency of these agencies, the Minister accepted the proposal of Representation and the decisions of the administrative boards and general meetings of these organisations will be communicated within five working days to the Otta Councils, which are members of them, and will be posted to the DIAGIA programme. A flexible legal person is therefore created with a view to the absorption of funds and with absolute transparency in its establishment and functioning. Analogous criticism was further exercised in other provisions of the bill, possibly creating mistaken impressions on transparency issues. However, let us remind the people of the Opposition that all the decisions by the local authorities and the single-faced institutions and the collective bodies of Ottawa to produce legal consequences are subject to legal publicity. So everything in the light, all with absolute transparency and anyone who wants and has a legitimate interest, can also challenge these decisions. Furthermore, another important innovation of the bill is the possibility that the three major municipalities will be able to exercise at the same time and under conditions of competence belonging to other entities. The aim of the regulation is, on the one hand, to take immediate action in the event of emergencies and, on the other, to combat bureaucracy and, on the other, to help our fellow citizens quickly. And while you would expect it to be fully accepted by all the parties, there was also the argument that the provision was intended to create superhero mayors, and so on. Honestly, I cannot follow nor understand the logic of counter-population. And tell us, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, is it not practical and useful for local communities and for issues such as maintenance and improvement of the road network, lighting works, cleanliness and preventive measures to prevent fires and others, to interfere with and provide immediate solutions? Let me give you a typical example from my area. It is the pier in the area of the beach of Pieria, which, over the years, had suffered considerable damage and was at risk of collapse and material damage being caused, and even of threatening human lives. Unfortunately, it was not possible to restore the damage precisely because of the problem of interdependent responsibilities and responsibilities. Who was responsible for restoring the pier? The municipality, the Port Fund, the Port Authority, the Land Office, the Ministry of Finance? We're talking about a bureaucratic wave. Therefore, instead of applauding such arrangements, the opposition is standing across the street. Furthermore, I would like to refer to a number of provisions which are particularly social in nature which touch vulnerable social groups. First of all, the pilot program "Telemedical Prevention at Home", which is a follow-up to the successful program "Help at Home" for the inhabitants of the country's mountainous and difficult areas who find it difficult to reach a qualified doctor. You understand how important it is for these people to be able to run tests from home, how important it is not to feel cut off. This is therefore a very important arrangement that proves that we are close to those in need, regulation that gives flesh and bone to the vision of her father, telemedicine, Greek doctor and professor of Pseudos Zervos. There are other arrangements of a particular social nature, special leave for officials who have a disability problem, either themselves or members of their family. Also particularly important is the day-old leave for women for annual gynecological control. In conclusion, Mr Ministers, on the occasion of the extremely serious and topical issue of the coronary, which the Government is dealing with under the Act of Legislative Content, which sees the issue sufficiently well, I would like you to consider and assess the possibility of granting some amount to the school committees of the municipalities, because it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, in order to prevent dismissals from school establishments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u562	Mr. Marios Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u563	Thank you, Mr President. I have been waiting so long for me to talk, I have heard all the ministers who have spoken and I really have been asked a question. Mr. Ministers, really, where is all this adequacy with which you show us how you feel you are ruling? Where is this complacentness that you express from your public word? Do you feel that you're so effective? Do you feel everything's going well? Really? Yes, you know, you're probably out of place and time, in my opinion. We are extremely concerned about the situation and what is happening in the country lately. You should have realised that the sky is not more blue, as you promised by election. We can barely see a growing provocative attitude by Turkey towards Greece, which, after having conducted illegal drilling in Cyprus, has made the illegal Turkish pact and has sent Horuts Race for research into the Aegean Sea, is now working on the human suffering of immigration - refugees to achieve its pursuits in the Eastern Mediterranean and Syria. How did you respond to all this? I'm sorry. In the refugee - migration from one side to the next, tick the islanders to make other centres, and on the other you inflate the far right, which leads to self-right phenomena. Did you really hear the statement by your former Member in Lesvos, Mr. Voyatzis? He was formerly a member of the New Democracy, who said in a statement to local media that he does not honor anyone with the raids on the islands. Do you hear that? Do you hear those voices? Be serious. It's not all communication management. Stop being retreat in front of the European Union and Turkey. This tactic doesn't work. Greece must not be a soul storehouse. So challenge with all the means, here and now, a practical solution from the European Union. Do not degrade the issue from Euro-Turkish to Greek-Turkish. We are here to support a resolution based on a serious and realistic plan, defending the rights of the Greek people, respecting international law and the unnegotiable values of humanism. Let's go to the bill now. I shall mainly refer to articles relating to the provisions of the Ministry of Digital Governance and the General Press Secretariat. In Articles 81 to 89, we have the responsibility of the Ministry of Digital Governance for the National Centre for Audiovisual and Communications, the ETUC. The New Democracy continues on the streets that we, the government of SYRIZA, opened for the first time in the country, with our policy of strengthening audiovisual productions and creating a National Repository of Audiovisual Archives. We welcome the New Democracy in our policy and the arrangements of this bill are in a positive direction. The repository is a project of 10m euros that was announced and started to be implemented by the government of SYRIZA. Of course, we are telling you - and we have also stressed in the committees - that you have delayed the decision to approve the Cash Rebate project and that you have been too late in strengthening the EMEA Agency. We simply want to ask the Minister what exactly is the usefulness of Article 82, as all of this is described in Law 4339, which has been established by the EMEA, but also in the operational plan of the EMEA. I suggest you read it again. We also welcome the recognition and continuation of the Register of Regional and Local Press established by Law 4487. I guess we didn't do everything wrong after all, as you were saying in an election. Now we're going to the ELTA article. With this bill you give EUR 15 million for universal service compensation in 2020. We will vote in favour of this, because what SYRIZA first started by picking up the cracks of your governments. I would remind you that EUR 135 million was provided by the poor SYRIZA who allegedly dismantled the ELTAs, in a statement by Mr Pierrakakis, who has even disappeared these days, and we have not seen him either in committees or in plenary, as he has decided to hide behind Mr Georgioda. For the first time since 2013, the government of SYRIZA has legislated and paid sums of compensation for universal postal service, which the renowned government of Samara owed since 2013, your renowned governments of the scandal and the sale of the Post Bank, which cost EUR 221 million damage to the ELTAs. And there is even an ongoing trial with great state-run businessmen, your friends. I would also remind you that in 2014 you submitted a proposal to the Commission, so that the compensation for the provision of the universal service was the unthinkablely low amount of EUR 15 million per year as a service of general economic interest. However, the National Telecommunications and Post Committee has come to the conclusion that the Hellenic Hellenic Global Service costs EUR 40 million a year on average, resulting in further debts being collected to the ELTA totalling EUR 260 million from 2013. We have also asked you in a relevant timely question. Will you give this money so that they can take the ELTA deep breath and have time to go to the next day? You didn't answer, you don't give the money, you only make redundancies, you close shops and we have, like PPC, an increase in tariffs. A simple letter to be sent from Athens to Syros from 1,60 euros went to 2,90 euros, an increase of 81%. You said then that they do not have to pay the ELTA wages March and at the same time we asked you in committee if you were hired by the administration you have appointed, with heavy wages, advisers in excess of what is envisaged and whether the board of directors increased the remuneration for their own members. Not only did you not answer, but you also threw the ball in the platform. Ladies and gentlemen, we now go to the article on the reinforcement of newspapers. We told you all in the first place. The legal framework of the SYRIZA is sufficient, is fair and could be implemented directly from summer. Instead of applying it for six months, the government has also been making new laws to come out from the beginning. Its innovation is the advisory committee appointed by Mr Petsas. We raised this issue in committee. If you sincerely legislate the committee, solely for the sake of respect for journalistic ethics and ethics, bring in a legislative provision, a legislative improvement - you have brought so many instruments, you have not had one for what we have asked you to do - that this will be explicitly mentioned. If you do not bring this piece of legislation, it means that you are lying, because the word "in particular" remains, which means that the announcement you made is fake, and you are actually hiding behind the opinion of the committee that you define in order to legalise the criteria you have been consulting all this time with the owners of the newspapers, i.e. to strengthen forms that they owe to tax and insurance funds and their employees. It is now enough to despair and contempt the press workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And you know, the same thing you did with the amendment of the development law, so it is a political will shown by the government, a political priority, to support such projects that have such loose ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u564	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u565	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just as chief of department to give some basis to these. Another legislative initiative to simplify procedures for the public. Unfortunately, eight months later, Mr Pierracakis continues to set up committees and subcommittees, which are constantly changing responsibilities, without tangible results. On the contrary, all he does is continue to increase bureaucracy in his own ministry. Finally, we cannot comment on another fiasco of the final ball, i.e. the multi-advertised state of staff, where eight months later, the exercise of powers on matters of staff of the General Secretariat for Information and Communication, which was transferred to the Prime Minister by the Ministry of Digital Governance's Administrative Service, has continued. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one sentence. As in the central issues, the governance of the New Democracy is summarised in the following sentence: communication and not substance, management of the basilica and rumbles. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for the citizens, the 'excellent' government is still going through a great deal under the aspirations it has set itself. In just eight months he managed to disguise himself in all fields. The communication management you are trying, unfortunately for you, cannot cover your political and management inadequacy and can not take you very far away from that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u566	I would now ask Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou from Greek Solution to Step and then we will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance Mr. Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u567	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making a brief reference to what is happening these hours in Evros and by this Step forward that the Greek Solution, as our President, Mr Velopoulos, has shown, is always close to our brothers and sisters, to the locusts of Hellenism that guard our borders. Once again Greece is defending Europe from the risk of an asymmetrical threat, and I am sure that this time we will succeed, we will save our values and our culture and we will not allow the invasion of these bloody territories. I now come to our main theme and allow me to make some thoughts and comments on some points in the bill. Once again, we have a great title: 'Military Development Perspective'. You are baptising the bill, gentlemen of the government, as are the other draft laws you brought under similar titles. Unfortunately, however, the latest events, which have justified what we of the Greek Solution have told you so long, have shown that it still needs a lot of work for the famous development and the prospect. For your strategy, I should rather not speak. What is this institution that you enter, the Development Institutions of Local Government? Anonymous companies are, which in practice replace the technical services of the municipalities. A provision for such a replacement is, like you of the government, the non-technical adequacy of municipal technical services. And I ask: how exactly do you define the adequacy or inadequacy of technical services? Nobody bothered to explain it to us from the government. Clear! Let's go down. The new agencies will be provided with regular staff through legal procedures, but also with temporary staff. How will the emergency staff be hired? By decision, you say, the board of directors of the company, i.e. outside the AACC, by opaque procedures. But also for regular staff, people will be hired by OTA. In other words, from the OTA that you yourself considered not technically sufficient! Funny contradiction, which undoes the basis for the whole bill of law, unless we believe that those who have been sending to date the technical services of the municipalities will suddenly gain adequacy. You are also saying that the new law will speed up licensing and investment procedures and that will be done by by bypassing OTA technical and building services. But what will the consequences of building, the environment and our cultural heritage be? Are there any more serious problems in the name of speeding up procedures than are hypothetically resolved? Also, under Article 6 of the draft law, the rule of ambiguity with regard to administrative support for the municipalities continues, with a transitional phase of a few months. This is the time when the relevant decisions on the minimum staffing of the HFOs, i.e. the towns, are still pending, which is a precondition for the implementation of any decision. It is another contradiction of the draft law. Finally, a gap that I have identified in the draft law is in particular Article 27(1) of that article, which concerns the selection of heads of organic units. We have no reference at all to the charge headline laid down by the law. The free choice of heads is clearly contrary not only to the fundamental principle of equality imposed by the Constitution, but also to Law 3584/2007 on the Rules of Procedure of Municipal and Community Staff. It is, therefore, questioned by any of the above and by other things, whether the draft law really solves the old problems and does not create new ones. We in the Greek Solution, as developments constantly show, always talk in time and prove the right thing to do. So now, we invite you ladies and gentlemen of the government to see and appreciate what we tell you. It should be noted that the bill is a 'bowl' of many issues which is trying to suit some of the 'families'. We also consider it a great wound to the bill that citizenship is given under more relaxed conditions, without proof of the applicant's sincere desire. A process focused on the real relationship with Hellenism should be required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u568	The Deputy Minister for Digital Governance, George Georgantas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. I was saying today, ladies and gentlemen, that I will perhaps not have to repeat a few things that I mentioned in committee, in relation to the situation in the ELTAs, the situation that we received after five years of disastrous management from the previous government. I was saying that I would only take the floor if the Minister responsible for the previous government, Mr. Pappas, finally comes and sits. And although I invited him to committee the previous day to come to give some answers, he chose to hide and not come. Mr. Pierracakis has been here and has been mentioned by this Step on the issues of ELTA and has also been mentioned in the project that we are working on and which will soon be known to all of you, so that the oldest company of the Greek State can bring it back to that point to perform its social role throughout Greece. A company that has truly been identified with the Greek region and has offered maximum service throughout this period and has the potential through specific targeted structural moves to perform a new role in the competitive environment that has been created. However, earlier, because today we are obliged to pay the universal postal service advance to keep this agency alive, because some objections have been raised in relation to the previous period, I am obliged to say: An answer to what happened in previous years is this document that I have in my hands and I will submit to the Minutes of the House, which says attributes: "The company will no longer be able to meet its obligations and will soon be forced to make a payment stop. The fact that it employs thousands of workers and around 75% of its costs is labour costs, wages, wage tax, ECA contributions, etc., prescribes the enormous social costs that will be created by such a payment stop." This finding is a finding made on 17 October 2018 and notified in addition to the shareholders of ELTA S.A. and the “Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A.”. Why we need to remind colleagues that this creation of SYRIZA is what has a fundamental and a role at the moment in this company. So this letter, this cry of anxiety from the previous administration of ELTA, was directed, among others, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Mr Papa, to the office of the Secretary-General of Communications, the Secretary-General of the Ministry, as well as to the Ministry of Finance. Since October 2018, it has been known that there will be no possibility for the ELTAs to continue operating. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Digital Governance, George Georgios Georgios Georgios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] What did the previous government do about it? I'll tell you very simply. He did two very great things. One is that in Members' questions from all political groups about what he intends to do, how he will intervene, how he will reorganise the ELTAs, which were continuously detested, as they closed seventy shops in the period "15-19", Mr.Pappas comes to many continuous questions and gives a very good answer to you now: "It is noted that the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information has no competence to operate the "Greek Post S.A.", except on legislative and regulatory issues in the postal sector. The total ownership of the Greek State in ELTA has been transferred to the "Greek Company of Participants and Property S.A.". So that was the contribution of the previous government, and that was the interest and responsibility with which the previous Minister for Digital Policy, who did not come today to give an answer to the situation in which the ELTAs were received, dealt with this particular issue. But they showed a zeal somewhere, they were not completely indifferent to the operation of ELTA and ELTA Courier. We must recognise that. Do you know where they showed interest? Where we have the working rights, this beautiful SYRIZA fortress, which they defended in every way and at every level. There, therefore, showed a great interest in relation to ELTA workers. And you know what the previous administration did, of course, with tolerance or incitement - I imagine the encouragement, why else do the administration say it - and the pressure of the previous political leadership? They increased the number of staff employees. Do you know what personal work means? It is what we call the "financed" workers, who are given through parent companies to offer a service. So listen to the ELTA Courier what they achieved and did from '14 to '19. When this number of employees was in 2014, three hundred and twenty-four, do you know what it was like in '18 and '19? Six hundred nine in 18 and six hundred eighty in 19. They have therefore taken care of these workers, this process, which they have criticised and denounced in every way in connection with the violation of labour rights, to increase it and to maintain it. That's what they did. Do you know what the present 'bad' government has done in relation to this? It stopped these contracts to a very large extent and replaced them with fixed-term contracts through ASP. That's what this government did. So I think that the story of the ELTAs is a very interesting story for anyone who wants to watch the next episodes. But you should know that, regardless of the outcome of any investigations, one is certain and that is what we are telling you today: the ELTAs will continue to perform their social role for the Greek state, for the Greek society, for the Greek region and this will be done in such a way that the wage costs, where it is excessive, will be reduced, but at the same time we will also have that modernisation that is necessary to make the company competitive against a difficult, competitive environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had to make this reference, although SYRIZA is right to vote for this particular arrangement and I call on all colleagues to support it, because it is the only way we can keep this historic company of the Greek public. Be well, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, there are about fifteen more speakers left. Because time is invading for a minute, how about, with your consent, do the speech from now on, with a tolerance of half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u571	The House agrees. Very good. Thank you very much. Mr Filippos, from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u572	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like your tolerance, as I have just been informed of the reduction in time. Before I begin my position on the draft law, I should like to refer to today's attack on the political office of the Minister of Labour and my fellow Member, Yiannis Vroutsis, by the members of the anarchist group 'Ruvikon' and to point out that violence in whatever form and wherever it comes has always found us opposing intersections. So such unacceptable actions also affect democracy and institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u573	There is, Mr. Spirtzi, there is still. You'll know that better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u574	Because you've got all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u575	So let's go on an issue that is topical. The image of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in Evros, with the whole leadership of Europe next to him is historic and has a powerful symbolism. It is hope for the future of Greece and Europe itself. Thus, the government's measures on asylum do not constitute a reliance on the great universal values and principles of freedom, justice, solidarity and dignity. So nothing else makes us citizens of reduced democratic sensitivity. The whole protection of refugees is therefore the highest human authority, but also our own obligation. But avoiding the collapse of the political and social preconditions by defending national sovereignty so that the country can offer this protection with all its powers is an even greater obligation, it is our democratic duty. At the same wavelength is the statement made a few days ago by Greek American Gus Bilirakis, a member of the House of Representatives from Florida, United States, which I will present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Philippos Load, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are therefore proud that once again we are on the right side of history. Let us now come to our bill today. The most important reform interventions in the current plan are distinguished from the following six categories. Firstly, the effective functioning of the TABs, a reduction in the whole bureaucracy. Secondly, to strengthen the social services of OTA by means of key interventions. Thirdly, the modernization of services to the citizen and the conditions of acquisition of Greek citizenship. Fourth, meritful and more rapid staffing of the public administration. Fifthly, improving human resources in the public sector and sixthly, promoting environmental and climate policy through OTAs, of course. I'm going to stand on the issues of the Ministry of Interior, as I come from the area of self-government. The current bill solves basic problems of self-government and of course has very much acceptance by both the mayors and the regional authorities. So problems of everyday life are being addressed in the functioning of the TAs and facilitate the exercise of public administration's responsibilities. All technical services of the municipalities, as we all know, are subordinated. The whole thing is what we all know and of course we all know, particularly in border regions and island regions. In fact, on this issue it has been mentioned several times, and I am tabling it in the Minutes, the Regional Director of the South Aegean, George Hadjimarkos, that is to say, the huge problems with technical services from the islands, so that they cannot absorb and carry out many projects that are currently in place. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philipbos Load, presents for the minutes the letters referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With the existing bill, then, we give the municipalities, through the EBRD and the Development Associations of Self-Government, the opportunity to cooperate with private engineers at a specific time and in a specific project. So we enable municipalities to have a strong developmental role, to carry out many projects, without, of course, increasing the number of civil servants. So we solve the problem of subscribing our technical services so that the municipalities and the region - especially the municipalities - can conduct short and quick studies and implement the projects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want your tolerance, Mr President. I thank at this point the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, which, in paragraph 3 of Article 10 of the draft law, accepted by my own recommendation but also by other colleagues and the documented proposal of the very important activity, I would say, mayor of Mykonos and member of the Board. the CEDEFOP of Konstantinos Koukas, the extension to island municipalities with a population of less than twenty thousand inhabitants of the option of balancing their return services with other regular revenues. So we help in this way several tourist islands, such as Paros, Santorini, and also Mykonos, to give greater weight to their return services for residents, as well as visitors. In addition, I would suggest that you see another issue, which concerns employees of the municipalities, but also legal persons, municipalities and permanent teachers on various islands, having the right to feed and stay by municipalities, as is the case with doctors, nurses and ELAS. I am presenting all these proposals to today's sitting in the hope that they will be taken into account. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Philippos Load, presents the above proposals for the Minutes, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. I wanted to say one last thing, that very well with the legislative improvements to Article 18 of the draft law, telemedicine projects are being extended to island municipalities of less than twenty thousand inhabitants. From this use and with the application of e-health, our islands will be among the winners, because they will be able to improve all their possibilities in order to cope with their own disadvantages and create the necessary conditions for a better quality of life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u576	Mr. Loading, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u577	Finally, Mr President, I wanted to take up Amendment No 215/38, which I would like to welcome, as well as the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, for the establishment of architectural councils in specific cases, especially for island regions. The new proposed provision creates all the conditions for the rapid formation of these councils in order to deal with all the delays which we have had so far and also to settle them arbitrarily. This legislative initiative will give a breath in specific cases of settlements, such as in Ermoupolis, Syros, a historic site in which all delays in approval have led to very serious problems both for building security and for property transactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u578	Mr. Colleague, you've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u579	The acceleration, therefore, of the setting-up of architectural councils is a very important step. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law once again gives the Government's reformist signal. What does that mean? Simplification, rationalisation, resolution of chronic issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u580	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes. It's at the expense of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u581	Especially for the private municipalities in the Cyclades region, I am convinced that all the arrangements, Mr President, for the bill and for the OTAs will give the full opportunity to solve years of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u582	I'm sorry to interrupt, but we said to keep the hours. Mr Vassilis Ypsilantis from New Democracy is requested to come to Stepma. It is known that Mr. Ypsilantis never runs out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u583	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on March 7th, Greece celebrates the 72nd anniversary of the Integration of the Dodecanese with the mother country, the last part of those of the lost homeland, which after five hundred years of slavery, was found in the arms of Greece. From this step, as a representative in the National Parliament of this island region of ours, I pay tribute to our ancestors who have fought and sacrificed themselves to be proud and free today. This year's anniversary finds us at a particularly difficult time, which is about the activation by Turkey of a project which is part of the exacerbation of the immigration problem and the ultimate objective of imposing a project on the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. At all levels, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis gives its struggle to deal effectively with the problem, taking our country out of geopolitical drug abuse, poorly defined humanitarian solidarity, which harms our national interests and is bearing the status of our state, triggers the lost reflexes of the European Union in our region and demarcates by means of a package to address the problem itself, namely refugee - immigration. We propose this patriotic approach to political bilingualism and to the voluntarily blinding that has damaged our country. We call on the political forces of the country in a spirit of unity, together with the majority of the Greek people, today expressed by their democratically elected government, to abandon these hours the populist approach, taught - if anything - by the mistakes they made in the recent past and by putting a national fence together in Turkey's illegal and troubled goals. These mistakes of the recent past, which I mentioned about national issues, do not escape the ones of the local government we are called upon to deal with, in such a way that certain things are still working back. To leave, firstly, from the stagnation which has come especially in the years of the crisis and which has culminated in the electoral system of the simple analogy introduced by the SYRIZA - ANEL, in order to punish, in essence, the representatives of local government, the majority of which do not embrace either the political or the ideoleptic obsessions of today's opposition. And soon we will be leading to a new modern and effective architecture for local government, which will help in the end, and the further development of the regions, the cities and communities and the Greek region as a whole, which will facilitate the liberalisation of its productive, development forces. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law introduces, for the first time, an integrated development perspective aimed at the maximum absorption of the financed and financed programmes, through which infrastructure projects can be implemented. It is incumbent on the supervision, supervision and execution of technical projects under Union law and Law 4412/2016, a new scheme for the support of the ATTs for the exercise of the competences of the construction and technical services of the ATTs, in particular small TAs and islands. Of course, the establishment of a collective body for the development of coherent local development policies, consultative to the Minister for the Interior. Innovative tools are introduced in the exercise of the responsibilities of the TAs and the registration legislation is modernised, in full alignment with the country's digital policy. There are signs of interventions in the Code of Nationality. It streamlines the legal framework of the Single Mobility System and the selection framework for head of administration and finally amends the recruitment system through ASP to speed up, as far as possible, the recruitment process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior from my heart for accepting my proposal to the Committee on Public Administration of the Parliament to extend the special preventive medicine programme entitled 'Prevention at Home', which is part of the municipal structure 'Help to Home' and to the smaller islands of our country. Thus islanders belonging to vulnerable groups, the island population, will receive medical examinations, the results of which will be sent to qualified doctors through computer and telecommunications technologies. The second thing I would like to point out is that a solution is finally being found and their certificate is being deleted or omitted, debts from property cleanliness and lighting fees, the electricity being stopped, according to a certificate from the responsible network operator, and which, according to the owner's responsible statement, were not used during the reference period. We must point out that the responsible statement must be submitted by 30-6-2020. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I declare that I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u584	The reason for Mrs Christina Alexopoulou, from New Democracy, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u585	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by studying the draft law, which we are debating today, I felt very strongly that it is a follow-up - let us say - of the law on the ultimate state, and indeed structured follow-up, with improvements to the public administration articles and, moreover, with care for OTAs and many other important regulations. Of course, the term "final state" is one of many of this wing, which will rush through it. But what can we do? That's right. Today's bill is essentially the continuation of the state of staff, and I am particularly pleased about it. The efforts of the Government, Mr.Mitsotakis, to remove the chronic pathogens and nursings in each management body or body, continue unrelentingly against old-fashioned methods and methods of SYRIZA. And this effort is clear that it's a place. On the other hand - and I ask, why does it really surprise me - why so negative reaction from the Communist Party? Isn't there a colleague here to ask him what the reason to react like that? They know the mayor of Patras comes from their place. They may not have heard that when he hears of partnership with a private person or when he hears about development with outward capital, he immediately becomes his greatest enemy. There can be no progress so with such behavior. They try to change the bill and it does very well. On the provisions of the draft law, what I can see from a professional point of view, is the really problematic technical services of most of the ATTs. Generally speaking, this is the case, Minister, or the municipality will have a subordinated service, weak, to manage anything or to have dozens of engineers, but without being as efficient as possible, we would like. That is not rational and, of course, it must be corrected. That is why there is provision for the search for technical assistance from the Management Unit, the well-known CFO, the Ministry of Development, and that is why there is, by the development companies of the LAG and elsewhere, in order to proceed with the studies, to carry out the projects and, of course, to ensure that the funds are not lost. Citizens are interested in these things. No opaque, no rosphetological practice. On the contrary, it will be an effective practice that will offer work to local communities. On the other hand, in the context of mobility, because the TABs are also subject to mobility, the rational distribution of staff must be carried out, with social criteria always being applied. The aim of this is, moreover, also the attempted upgrading of the relevant implementation. And because, as the administrative science says, you cannot count it, it is obvious that you cannot command it, we must be pleased to upgrade the applications of the public administration and we are building new registers for it, which are able to communicate first with each other. Otherwise, we would end up at a time when we didn't even know how many civil servants this country had. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly from the tens of provisions of the draft law, let me refer to two, which are of enormous importance to me: The first concerns the special attention given to Article 49, concerning the staff member who adopts or accepts a child and the extra leave he is entitled to. I have spoken countless times about the facilities parents should receive today, in a Greece with an acute demographic problem. Parents are not only the childbearing ones, but also the adoption ones. These people have the same needs as biological parents and their children need the same. I celebrate, Minister, who, at last, thought to add these provisions. They are of particular value, because together with the other measures to support families, implemented by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his Government, it is another to add, which will help reverse this grim situation in the country. The same article amends, in the most favourable terms, provisions of a public-official code and the Code of Municipal and Community Staff, concerning all those who are ill or have in their family a member of their family, and establishes authorisations other than donors and donors of platelets, giving incentives to increase bone marrow donors. The fact that, in a bill, which is first for the TATs, such arrangements are contained, shows the human face of that government. So tell me, why wasn't there anticipated until now? And why, while so much struggle is being done to encourage transplants, the platelet donors were ignoring them for so many years? In addition, within old and afflicted Greece, one can finally put order on the most obvious hybrid threat called illegal immigration and directly threaten the social structure of our country. Until now, the designation of all those illegally entering Greece as political refugees has given everyone the right in three years to obtain a residence permit. It was a flagrant injustice against those who lived permanently and legally in Greece who acquired it after seven years. The basic principle of today's government is that asylum should be dealt with thoroughly - and soon, of course - and that anyone who pierces in our country does not get it. And he can no longer pierce in any way. It can't be done anymore. Thus, the person identified as a refugee will be able to request a residence permit, but after seven years, just like the legal alien. It must be made clear to everyone that we have both borders and active security bodies. As a result, his policy of "bulk dogs" is over. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law has the capacity to regulate many things, to prioritise priorities and to propose solutions. The Minister for the Interior, to whom many congratulations are due for his work, such as, of course, the Prime Minister, are determined to make the necessary legislative interventions to achieve the greatest possible consensus on the practical issues facing the citizen in his everyday life. It doesn't take us to propose any more ideologies and prejudices. We know that the proper functioning of the state is in everyone's interest and that this is a common interest. This presupposes the building of modern and functional Greece that we are attempting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u586	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u587	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u588	Mr President, I would like to put forward a small legislative improvement for Article 25. Soon the Minister will also come to see from the parliamentary amendments what will be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u589	Please, Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute? I just want to testify, because it will help the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u590	Please, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u591	Mr. President, I just wanted to say, if the Minister does not have this in mind, what Mr Famelos referred to. It's the opinion of EADESY, number one. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. You said that it was not asked for all the articles of the draft law, but only for Articles 2 and 18, and as a result of the opinion that Article 2 should be removed. Mr. Lebanon testified 17, not 7. So, let's testify to the seven that's about this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u592	The one you tabled to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u593	That's right. The one we have tabled to committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u594	Mr. Stylus from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u595	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by referring to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Migration Policy. This is an amendment that organises, speeds up and sets up a better functioning and organisation of administrative procedures, carried out by that ministry. In addition, it has a significant incision. It sends a very strong message that those who are entitled to asylum and receive from asylum services in the country will be able to stay in a centre, in a structure for just one month. From there on, with their papers, with their rights, they will be able, like all other citizens, to look for work and to see to it how they live in our country or elsewhere in the European Union and in the European countries. So we send a message that Greece is not a country where I come, I am in structures, I collect money from either Amnesty International, from the European Union or from the Greek state, and I can stay there as long as it is and we see and has God and we send a message to the rest of our country 'Come here because there is a good climate, hospitality, so we can use it.' It is a move in a comprehensive plan announced by our Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis that we are organising all the procedures relating to a very big issue, a very big problem, what we call refugee - immigration and which has been employed and employing and will continue to employ our country for many months and perhaps for many years from now. Yesterday I referred to the police at the Greek Army. I thanked them here for the step forward for the attitude and attitude they have shown by keeping our extreme borders in Evros. I now come to the specific bill of the Ministry of Interior, a bill which has a number of regulations and regulations on local government. I would like to point out that, above all, I should like to make two main points. The first concerns its forecasts for local government agencies, municipalities and provision for citizenship. Why am I talking more about these two arrangements? Because our municipalities, as you know, are a pillar that supports the cohesion of society, especially in the Greek region and in the outermost regions. So, with this particular bill, the government is moving forward by improving a number of institutions. The first institution to introduce is the technical assistance of management services, special development programmes, potential beneficiaries, i.e. the municipalities of the country. In this draft law, it provides for the establishment of Local Government Development Bodies as flexible and innovative legal entities of IATA I and B, to which the implementation of development programmes is entrusted. An innovative substitution and assistance system for the technical services of the municipalities is introduced. How many people throughout Greece do we not know about the slow procedures and the subordinated technical services of the municipalities that cannot implement, study, auction, monitor the supervision of projects and procedures? One step forward. With this bill, training, the preparation of operational programmes by the Local Government agencies with a grid of auxiliary provisions is accelerated. In other words, they are given the opportunity to have the institutional tools that will help them to achieve the purpose for which they exist. Based on all the above, this piece of legislation is intended to lay the foundations for our municipalities, and in particular those of the region, the main pillars of the development of the country, the development of economic, social and technical projects, which would either be excessively delayed or could not be executed, with the predictions and technical support of the municipalities from the EBRD and the TCF will be definitively on the road to their rapid implementation. The engineers of the EBRD and of the EBRD will be activated per study and per project. We have spoken during the debate on the Budget in the House on the under-utilisation of the Public Investment Programme and we have all lived to approve projects, take codes, but make it impossible for the municipalities to carry out these projects and make it impossible to absorb all the money and funds we give from our own money, not to mention the money that we could not absorb and return to the European Union in all three previous Community frameworks. I am referring very briefly to an important and substantial reform, a great prediction concerning mountain municipalities, the municipalities of the small islands. I am referring to helping the "Help at Home", the telemedicine system, where it shows the social sensitivity of our Government to those who are locusts and need more care and care from the Greek state. It is therefore clear - and I shall end, Mr President - that the services which are so much in need of Greece, unfortunately, because of demographic problems, are ageing. A reference to the government's green message. Vehicles relating to the State and public services will now be environmentally friendly under the specific rules in the bill. It is a move encouraging electricity and sending out a message for the green economy, green growth and it is a combination through a series of legislations and initiatives taken by the government. Finally, in relation to the suspension of Article 32 of Law 4604/2019 on citizenship, what is the reality? This law was passed by the previous government, but it provided for a number of ministerial decisions, which were never adopted. Therefore, this article did not work, it did not apply. In my opinion, therefore, and in the view of the Government, we must now go to the suspension, look at how naturalisation and citizenship will be given from now on, and we are soon awaiting the government with its own legislative initiatives, which surely means that naturalisation processes are not stopped, but they must be as appropriate in a modern, European, organised state. Thank you very much, I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your time tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u596	The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a statement on the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Immigration, which we believe does not provide the solution that must be found as formulated and our vote will be judged on whether or not we accept the proposal we are going to make. I would therefore ask the Minister, Mr Livanios, and of course Mr Mitarakis - who will be informed, obviously - to ask for the provision in the legislation, in the amendment, of the support of those who will take the decision on protection, asylum, so that on the 30th day of the month that they will leave - if this is one month or two or I do not know how many will be - what we consider crucial is the day that they will have already joined the CRL programme, the guaranteed income, and to receive another month. There is no way, unless we support these people on the day of leaving the structure in a certain way that we are telling you - why integration into the guaranteed means some things - I repeat, there is no way that new problems will not arise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u598	Demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u599	Of course. Listen. The one who gets the certificate that he has asylum now has all the rights. In the month until he gets out, the state will have to take care of his application to get his VAT, get his AMCA, get the prerequisites. So on the 30th of the month, when you say that he will come out, he will have what the citizen, who is in financial weakness, has. Without that, I think we are doing a hole in the water, even though we are showing a wrong person that the Greek people do not have, in relation to Turkey's fast news. You will confirm what Erdogan says, that we do not respect international agreements on refugees. And this must be avoided in every way, because there is now a war and propaganda. It's not just what we see at the border. It is not only what is being done in the relocations or the provocation effort. That is why I call on Mr Mitarakis, at least at the very last hour, to include in his amendment the minimum conditions so that the man who comes out will not be the prerogative of the traffickers who will act again, regardless of whether or not he has the asylum paper. Of course, we will judge our vote on the improvement that will have to do with this minimum welfare for social and economic integration. It's minimal. I could put three - four topics. I don't do it because at the last minute they can't get in. It can therefore also come into play that by means of joint ministerial decisions by the Minister for Immigration, with the interior, finance and labour, it can also see additional measures for the social integration of these people. That is what we want, that must be done, so that we are well in line with our international obligations, but also have a result in connection with the decongestion of the centres and structures today, so that we do not create new informal structures in every square, in every village. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u600	That was an interesting proposal, though. Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis, Member of the SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u601	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary, we have been here today for a debate on the substance, as we have been doing since the beginning of the drafting of this bill. We understand the importance of supporting local government. We understand very well, very well, the problems faced by the municipalities and, in particular, the small municipalities, whether the mountains or the small islands of our country, and that is why as a serious opposition, you know very well, we have come with proposals, with amendments, we have worked very hard and I think all the parties or most of the opposition parties have worked very seriously to propose and try to improve the legislation that we have today for voting. I must confess - and I am prepared today to give credit, but also to keep a few comments - that, throughout the committees, there has been a real dialogue, as appropriate for parliamentary procedures. You have accepted a number of things and tabled amendments which improve the current draft law. We believe and hope that you will accept the amendments that we have tabled to you because you realise that we did not do it for opposition reasons, but because we believe that it will improve the provision that we all think the municipalities should have in general local authorities. You know that there are problems and all these comments we have made to you throughout this week clearly stem from our fear that specific provisions may be contrary to European law. That's what we were trying to avoid. We told you in every way. Because yes, we can legislate today, but ultimately the question of whether they will be contracting authorities, if they are not, whether they will be able to carry out programming contracts, will be judged in the course of things and will not be judged today. The Court of Auditors' case-law and the case-law of the European Court of Justice have thus shown. Evidently, the European directives are too obsolete. Obviously, we need to respect them and I wish it were adopted, with all the amendments that I hope will be accepted, that we can really give our hand and not put a hole in the water and simply build new agencies that will cause problems. But I have to put some red lines on, we have told you, and thankfully on some issues, you have backed up. For us, the issue of transparency is a predominant one. It is good to create structures that will be helpful, but they must above all be transparent. We told you in Article 16 - and at least from what I have seen and colleagues in the New Democracy have agreed - that the structures already in existence should not be jeopardised, the development companies that manage too many projects that are very important to local economies and private and municipal. Two, three things, unfortunately, can be seen as being a little horrific. I cannot understand why local referendums should be suspended, for example. Are there any issues on which decisions must be taken quickly and who is more competent in small societies to decide on matters relating only to their place? We shouldn't be afraid of people's opinion. I also think that you are systematically degrading - and I think this is an institutional mistake - the municipal councils of the municipalities and their decisive powers. I understand that you want to help mayors who, for the majority of them, belong to your ideological arch, but we cannot degrade municipal councils in this way. They may not pass on any provisions which require the assent of the mayor in decision-making of municipal councils. It is an institutional diversion and we will unfortunately all find it before us. We have made all these remarks, many of you have accepted them. I shall conclude, Mr President, with the amendment tabled today. First of all, we agree with the remedial remarks tabled by the Change Movement by the Parliamentary Representative. We think it's the least we can do. I will be a little strict, to tell you the truth, because I believe that the Minister brings this amendment for purely communication reasons, so that I can be perfectly honest. I think that the statement by the European Commissioner for the Interior was confirmed today, it was clear that no move has really been made at the moment, no request to relocate refugees from here. I think that with everyone's well-collected request to dismantle the islands you have found a communal trick to empty structures to relocate refugees or immigrants from the islands and put them in, indifferently, as all previous speakers of counterpopulation have rightly said, about where these people are going, under what conditions. We are talking about people - to be clear - who have already taken asylum. If they want to leave, they are free to leave for the whole of the European Union. They have papers, they have to be given papers and the minimum you can do to show that you don't only care about communication is to accept two, three things that the Change Movement and we sign up. And I believe that no one will object, so that these people, the refugees, who are now recognizably recognized, who are protected by all the international treaties, do not have the ballots on the squares and streets of our country, trapped, making our country a storeroom of broken souls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u602	Mr Athanasios Ljupi from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u603	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of today's bill is to strengthen self-government 1 and 2 degrees so as to constitute development actors and strong players in local and regional administration. It is local government which is close to the citizens and by definition faces their most immediate daily problems. In recent years, the dazzling bureaucratic processes have set up infrastructure projects absolutely necessary for local societies and economies. The bill under discussion gives solutions to the key issues facing municipalities and regions and speeds up procedures, always respecting the principles of transparency and legality. In this direction, it is important to set up a Development Planning Committee, which will play an advisory role to the Minister for the Interior. The aim is to make best use of the funding of LAGs and to monitor the development of projects at local and regional level with the help of the Electronic Register of Local Government Data. The role played by the new local government agencies, focusing on the scientific, advisory and technical support of OTAs, is also crucial. Development agencies are in no way burdening the state budget or the finances of the EBRD. The shareholders include mainly Local Government and Regional Municipal Associations, which have the majority, while the participation of individuals is clearly excluded, so that there is no suspicion of clear orientation in the support of local government and not in the service of private interests. One of the fundamental improvements made is the possibility for the subordinated technical services of the municipalities to conclude a programme contract with the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Government, as well as with the development organisations and the "IOI S.A.". In this way, the well-known problems commonly faced by municipalities for the implementation of studies and projects are overcome, and procedures are very accelerated. The bill includes other important provisions, such as those on public health, where in parallel with the "Help at Home" programme, the "Prevention at Home" programme is being developed. As we all know, the government has set as a key pillar the defence of public health prevention at all levels. Especially for remote, inappropriate areas of Greek territory, the new prevention programme is very important, as residents, especially those belonging to vulnerable groups, will be able to plan exams at home. In fact, using telemedicine will send their results for evaluation to the physicians involved. It is a basic obligation and at the same time a success for the state to be next to all citizens, no matter how far they are. The draft law also regulates issues relating to registries with a view to simplifying procedures, so that minor corrections and changes do not require judicial decisions. Decisions relating to public administration are also important. In particular, for the first time, leave is given to women workers for preventive control, as are multitude families with enlargement from two to four years of reduced working hours for those who have a fourth child. A number of changes are made to the AACC procedure, removing time-consuming and worthless conditions, such as the signature of the Minister and the translation of the diplomas, so that time can be significantly reduced, without creating a risk of completeness of the procedure. Finally, a little reference to the provision that provides for the financial support of our athletes who will take part in the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games and Paralympics. The Digital Platform "We are with you 2020" will record the contributions of all those who want to help our athletes and who will then be distributed in a worthwhile manner to everyone. In conclusion, it is no coincidence that this draft law has generally left positive impressions during the debate at the committee stage and also that a constructive interaction has taken place between the Government and the opposition parties in order to achieve the maximum possible improvement in the provisions. And that is because the bill finally does the self-evident thing, it solves the hands of the local municipalities, who, because of the subdelegation of technical services, could not proceed to development projects. Such problems were mainly caused by many island municipalities, such as the island municipalities of Magnesia, Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos. The provisions we are voting on today at last give a solution to these years' problems and allow the local government to really be self-sufficient and make the most of the resources at its disposal to improve the lives of citizens that are the real issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u604	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr Paulakis Paulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u605	Thank you, Mr President. Let's get a little alive, 'cause I see very quiet. I won't say much about the bill. I told the committees. Our rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, has been very detailed. I shall say one word, Mr Secretary, the one I have said to the committees. As long as the central state does not decide to grant substantial and licensed municipalities, all these are aspirin for the dying man. And you'll see it with the application. I will devote my speech to a number of topical issues that have been raised today and which have been buried by my favorite channels of interactivity, by the media that your mechanism controls. And I'm doing fast. First, it started today - you know that? - the trial of Mrs Stournara, Mrs Nikolapoulou - Stournara, the woman of the archipezite for the direct assignment of EUR 715,000 for the organisation of the 2014 E-Health FORUM. And I was saying this morning that I went to the questions, why do I see Adonai and he doesn't open me up, but he's looking straight? He went in there with a defense witness! Because by decision of his own, the procedure for entrusting him was initiated. It's the evidence I went in 2016. It's started ever since. And Mrs. Nikolapoulou - Stournara put a million stumbling blocks in order not to end the preliminary interrogation and interrogation. And he said in the media that I want to be tried to prove my innocence! And what did he do today? He filed ten applications that the offence of EUR 715,000 has been dropped and that the procedure is void. And who were the witnesses? Adonis Georgiadis, the Minister, the "buldozier" of the Greek and the archilagos Poulis, who sold the lentils with 12,5 euros! They were all together, all of them ate them, 1-0! Two, imagine it was me and the Blonde Health Ministers and going out of the CEDEFOP, ETA in his phone line and answer to citizens that the Transmission and the Divine Society, the spoon, do not transmit the virus? What medieval time have we come back to? We held a stand of responsibility. We didn't look like you. Last year, with thirty-nine people killed by the flu, you've smashed us with your media and your herbs. This year, seventy-two dead have arrived, and nobody says a word! It's Thursday and Wednesday. But this? Is EDEY, the National Public Health Agency coming out and answering citizens that with divine society the virus is not transmitted, that is, if you swallow the translation from spoon that another has swallowed? Where are we back? This is Middle Ages. Not to mention the wrong management. And it's not the doctors' fault in Patras or Amaliada. From the interns there, the incident that went, suspected it was a suspect. And yet, they said that we have a directive that Israel does not have many cases and Egypt cannot act on the protocol. Hey, take twenty a case now! Who's to blame for that? Can you imagine it was us upstairs, what would happen? They would have guarded the channels for the "criminals" Blonde and Polakis who lead to death! Be serious about dealing with it a little bit. It's not communication! The health issue is a very serious issue in order to handle it by communicators. I'm going to third. Today Nikos Pappas humiliated you. He humiliated you! He set up a story or far-right wing under Mr. Samaras and Mr.Georgiadis with instrumentals Pleri and Markopoulos, that the "NOVARTIS" case - which the whole planet says is a scandal and is already beginning and falling the first bells in America in "NOVARTIS" and in its price manipulation subsidiaries - here in Greece is a service. It didn't happen! Only the doctors ate them! The civilian staff knew nothing about the murder when Harvard Project was being implemented and ten times as much as normal people had to get in! You said Papagelopoulos made a make-up. And because you fell into a wall on "NOVARTIS", you turned it over to the Mioney and Philippaki case. And today what proved to be the case? I'm posting them because they've already been publicized. He testified that the first meeting was with Mr. Samaras present, who begged him not to write anything about Minonis and that for Papastavros he knew what he was doing and would send him away. And the first compromise is ever since. So call Samaras, Papastavros, Mion's lawyers, Philippakis' lawyers, testify to the committee to prove what the construction is and who are going to set up Papagelopoulos to cover their courses. Because that's the reality. The compromise agreement they had drawn up since 2013 against Samara was also tabled! That is where the government's humiliation has arrived on the assumption that the "NOVARTIS", organized by Papaggiopoulou, is a construction. Mr. Athanasios, you're President now, and I don't have an order for you. Listen. I'll say two things about the refugee. Last week - and I am addressing you - with a military operation you have gone to impose - on what you were electorally saying that they will not happen, you will wipe out the refugees from the islands - closed detention centres on the islands and on the island that you are elected as a MP. We left it with 5,500 refugees and you did it with your extreme right and neoliberal idealism. When your abbreviations kicked out of there, I didn't see you anywhere. You were missing. But I saw you - and it is shameful, because you are Vice-Chairman of the Greek Parliament - going with these extreme right-wing groups of the'red-province' of the past that began to beat NGOs, journalists, to close the road to Moria. You had gone there - they told me - by patrolling ahead, police officers who had their hands in this way, while far-right and para-state tramps made bullying either in refugees and immigrants, either in members of NGOs or in journalists or in left-wing democratic people. I heard you did this. Are you going to turn the chop you ate a week ago, cultivating nationalist hysteria and extreme racist logic? I tell you two words and thank you for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u606	Because you referred to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u607	I'm done. I'll say two words. Press the European Union with a veto threat to all its decisions to become a Council summit. It's not a problem that this country will solve on its own. He's here to stay the refugee. Erdogan's blackmailing. The Evros border won't be broken. At the border in the Aegean Sea there will be application of the law of the sea. We won't drown people. And be careful, do not with an incident or some provocation open the way for possible conflagrations - what is Erdogan's ultimate goal - of natural gas deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean. You'll be accountable to history. All you've done these days is 700 million euros. What are you gonna do with it? Not to expel them, but to keep them here in closed centers, in prisons of human souls. That's what you won. No conviction, no sanction! We will do everything we can to make the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u608	Mr. Polakis, you referred to me. Of course, because it is not the main issue, the President of the House or the President-in-Office cannot speak on the substance of the matter. But I have to tell you a few things. Firstly, on Tuesday when the incidents occurred, the plenary was scheduled here for the waiver of immunity of Members and as you know - or if you don't know you can see it, find out - is always chairing the Vice-President, who is Chairman of the Committee on Parliament's Ethics. On Wednesday, the next day, I was there and with contacts all the time with the Prime Minister there was the departure of MATs and, of course, the appointment of Maximos, so the issues that existed were settled. The legislative act has also been followed, which I recommend you read carefully. Second, I go to Moria every time I go to Mytilini. The day I went to Moria, we went to stand by her world. It is inaccurate what you read and say and what the local MP of your party is saying. It is completely inaccurate that we have encouraged far-righters, etc. Close the streets, etc. We went there because it was overcrowded by the Moria Reception Center and there was not first, not a square meter to stay and, secondly, there was the risk of lack of control of the coronary. Thirdly, the situation of immigration on the islands was created by your government. I inform you that by 2014, when both the great human-slaves in Aleppo and other cities took place, they entered our islands sixty-seven thousand immigrants or refugees - they were potential refugees. On your day, with the doctrine of open borders, they only entered the islands of eight hundred and thirty - eight thousand of them, the five hundred sixteen thousand of whom went through Lesvos. Why? What did you say? That there are no borders. In fact, the then Prime Minister said there were no sea borders. It has already come back, fortunately, to demand that we guard the borders, and so on. Fourthly, by May 2019 - your government was - there are two thousand four hundred eighty-three immigrants whose asylum has been rejected. The question is: why, having rejected their asylum in turn, have they not returned to the countries, as provided for by international conventions, which you have invoked? Fifthly, all you have said is correct - we have had a great increase in flows, which, of course, the Prime Minister himself said - have found us unprepared, because we could not predict them. But at the moment there is a ferry in the port of Mytilini, it is filled with those who are no longer entitled to enter the international protection procedure. And of course it's decongested on the island. That's for restoring the truth. I do not accept that it was personally what you said, but I had to tell Parliament. And more we could say, because you do not forget that the European Union - Turkey - declaration is not an agreement, it is not an agreement, because it has not been ratified by any competent body and has not come to Parliament in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution to ratify and have any value - which has a worthy of good will, abyss and morality between states, you have brought it. And when Turkey did not apply it - and I am referring to Article 3 of the Convention on the obligations of Turkey - you have never asked for this provision to be applied. So don't tell us that. We're on. Mr. Psychoyus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u609	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u610	After Mr. Psychoyoyo, to get the situation off the ground. And another thing I forgot to say. In a small harbor there, in Thermi, he had a boat with women and children. He couldn’t get closer, and when I asked and gave some money to get water and sandwiches to the kids, they had to find out who we were struggling and who we were struggling for. Therefore, do not tell us about humanity and about what the Lesbians and my patriots have done, who are only racists and are not possessed by xenophobic complexes. Come on, Mr. Psychoyte.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u611	Thank you, Mr President. Certainly - to begin with the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey - the government has not been applying the possibility of removing the geographical restriction for vulnerable groups for months now. This has created overcrowding in the islands, social automation and all these phenomena that we have been following lately. I would like to begin with the bill and refer not to the provisions of self-government, which we discussed within the committee, but mainly to citizenship. We are defending, ladies and gentlemen, Law 4604/19 and its provisions, and we consider it to be in the wrong direction and the abolitions that are made, but also the suspensions. We consider it important that one of our claims was accepted and that the provision for children of foreigners with disabilities was withdrawn more than 80%, but in the next period we will surely collide, because the transparent and fair system that we had established is now being abolished. I would also like to say that there is a provision, which Mr Metarakis welcomed, concerning the granting of citizenship to refugees. I want you to know this: To get asylum one needs an average of two to three years already. Therefore, time to acquire Greek citizenship counts from there, that is, two to three years plus three years, which now lead to the acquisition of Greek citizenship, which is happening not only in Greece, but also in many other European countries. Because, as colleagues have already said, the recognised refugees, who have international protection, are fully covered by other provisions, have the rights enjoyed by both the citizens of the country and the three years is a perfectly reasonable time, which is to be added to the time they have already spent in order to get asylum. So it makes no sense, it has no sense, it has no basis, it exposes us again. The only thing that serves is to again satisfy a far-right audience, which wants to hear or see the deterrence of even people who have passed beyond to take international protection, from acquiring Greek citizenship and having rights and obligations such as Greek citizens. I'm continuing with the refugee. It is truly awkward to shake the finger and criticize this government in SYRIZA for managing the refugee - immigration. He really wants, after all these revolts, the complete failure in any plan - if that exists - to invoke SYRIZA that he had put it out of control or that it was a pull polo. Look, the evidence speaks for themselves and we'll invite you to file evidence just about what you've done. On the 6-7-2019 the islands had a total of seventeen thousand people. On 26-2-2020 the islands had about forty - three thousand people. And it is obviously not, Mr President, only the flows. It is also the fact that there was no plan, there was no decongestion and there was no provision from a relevant Ministry to coordinate the work. We delivered twenty thousand places in twenty-eight hosting structures, twenty-five thousand places in houses of the "ESTIA" program and seven thousand places in hotels with "Philoxenia", five thousand apartments in apartments for recognised refugees under the "HLIOS" programme - on which I will come back on the basis of the amendment you tabled - while the asylum procedure by two hundred people who served when we took over in 2015, we reached the thousands of two hundred, to make the most accelerable acceleration with twenty committees of the Refugee Authority. We have given full access to health, which has shielded both the public health of the country and the international obligations Greece has and twelve and a half thousand children in schools to join them smoothly. These are some of what SYRIZA has done, but also his porters, our porters, the porters of the country with four hundred and thirty thousand rescues, with research and rescue in the Aegean, which has made us proud. It was also a negotiating paper that we were fully observing international law and, of course, solidarity with other sensible deterrents prevailed. He said that - and we have all seen it - the Presidents of the institutions of the European Union are here. I did not see the Prime Minister raise the question of sanctions for Turkey, for which it is also in breach of sanctions in the Member States for the fact that responsibility is not shared in this matter. Of course the revelation came from Mrs Johanson, the Internal Affairs Commissioner, who said that no new relocation programme has been requested by Greece. Of course, Article 78(3) is well activated for the protection of borders, but it should also be activated for family reunification, resettlement, resettlement and all the other obligations that Europe has in connection with an issue which also arises from its involvement in various conflicts. I'm going to the amendments. I shall start with Article 5 of the amendment, tabled by the Ministry of Migration Policy, which provides for the possibility of taking up duties of asylum officers and reception by civil servants as well as private posted officials. For some civil servants, there is no problem, but here post-mortem officials are appointed by a simple administrative act of the Minister, without there being a mobilisation procedure for the qualifications required. The post-consignees exercise consultative services and in neural areas such as reception and asylum. They are not bound by the budgetary code and ethics, and of course there are no specific criteria for moleculosis to meet their duties. So you come and change the administrations of these services, which are extremely critical of the management of the refugee - immigration, with thick wages and with six new posters, who will enter without criteria and without procedures. As for Article 3, which amends your article of Law No 4636/19, where, after our interventions and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who had requested it, you have made six months of the period of withdrawal of recognised refugees, which we have also done, but we have connected it with the ELIOS programme, so that there can be a smooth transition to their integration. In fact, what you are doing is condemning the homelessness and the intolerability, without any care, of hundreds of people who will find it difficult to survive, but possibly at risk of social cohesion. We therefore say that there should be specific checks here. All this time, you have not made any move - but few places in the hinterland - to transfer people from the islands. You did not ask for an increase in the 'Estimation' programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u612	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u613	I shall conclude, Mr President. You took 700m euros, which you could use to build structures to house asylum seekers and refugees. Of course you did not apply the CCT decision on a level playing field throughout the territory. So, we're saying this move is only communist in substance. It is a tactic which is not based on the real facts and ignores both the needs of this population and Greek territory in relation to the integration of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u614	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has asked for the floor for a minute. Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u615	Thank you, Mr President. I apologise in advance for the public officials who have been helping us so late and by fellow Members, but as you know, it is important to give some answers to political issues to be recorded in the Minutes for the history of the future. I begin with the last thing Mr. Paulakis said about immigration. Firstly, I sincerely believe that - through you, I address the floor - it unfairs itself. Many times - and today - he says right things, but in the way he expresses them, he loses his right. You answered the issues of Lesbos and the personal issues. I just wanted to say that in the previous debates we had in the Chamber - and today Mr Kumucaku's letter and the Council of Ministers' decision - there is one issue - Mr Psychoyos said that there has been no new application. In the morning, he told us there was no application made. Now later tonight he says there's no new application. This is going to be progressively. The Minister explained it to you. In relation to the control of the media, I'd just say don't judge the odds yourself. We believe in freedom of speech and freedom of the press, but obviously we do not control the means. You also understand and understand this House and the Greek people realise that we are not here to judge judicial proceedings. What you said, we can't even comment on it. In any case, however, they know that in a rule of law every defendant has the right to exercise his rights and he and his lawyers. With regard to this part, which you said we were bringing the country to the Middle Ages, I think that is the wrong characterisation. It also characterizes you and us, the whole political world, and it would be nice not to use it because you automatically break up as a progressive force and of course you abuse us who obviously want to live long after the Renaissance, in the modern world that we are trying to create. I shall end with the subject of 'NOVARTIS'. I think you're misarmed, and I saw you guys getting upset. We don't have to lift the tons. This pre-review committee, we are all aware of those who are not in it, operates rapidly and with very good and democratic processes. We'll see what the result is. However, what we have seen so far from the leaks - I imagine you too have the picture of the leaks - is clear from the statements made by the prosecutors, but also from the statements made by the protected witnesses and Mr Mionis that there was clearly a system here, which was trying to create a political process. At the same time, it is clear that it has leaked to the public a compromise - first and foremost - about the history not only of this country, but of all democratic Europe and of all democratic world - where two entrepreneurs within the Maximos Mansion under the lips and the look of the Minister of State at that time, in a government of Tsipras, signed a contract that laid down all judicial procedures. If this is normal for you, for us it's not and it's definitely not for the Greek people. I would therefore like to say by closing down that you have every right to fight, to express your opinion and to support your colleagues. However, from that point on, we will no longer tolerate this way of operation or Parliament, but we will not tolerate the mud and turn it back on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u616	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u617	There's no staff. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u618	He said I'm throwing mud.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u619	Mr President, we're being eaten by pre-inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u620	Mr President, he said I'm flying mud. I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u621	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u622	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u623	Minister, after Mr Kegeroglu, tell us what amendments you will be accepting so that the Integration Service can also be prepared. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u624	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor to address the legislative improvements that we are proposing, because the Minister, Mr Metarakis, must also take into account them if he is to accept them. We typing them to give them electronics. In particular: in the first paragraph of Article 3 of the amendment concerning Article 114 of Law 4636, the article at issue, after the words ‘by decision of the Minister for Immigration and Asylum’, is added the words ‘issued within an exclusive period of 15 days following the publication of the law’. It is this decision that will provide for who will stay and who will leave, so it needs to be adopted soon. Second point: in Article 3 - and after the second paragraph, the following paragraph is added: ‘Before the date of cessation of the provision of material reception conditions, as referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article, with regard to the services of the Ministries of Migration and Asylum and Labour, refugees, for whom the status of international or subsidiary protection has been granted, are to the minimum guaranteed income and to the HELIOS programme’. The exit from the benefit system shall be effected at the same time as two (2) monthly instalments of the Guaranteeed Income and in the event of non-payment, the exit shall be extended until this is effected. By common decision of the Ministers for Immigration and Asylum and Labour, issued on 15 days' sole date, the terms and conditions for the implementation of this paragraph shall be laid down.’; It is very clear, it is under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Immigration to accept it, and typically, by law, Mr Theodorikos, and to have a composition so that this transition becomes too smooth and if the man who takes the certificate in his hands wants to go abroad, he also has the ticket in his hand. If he wants to stay here, he has the ability for a few days to search for work, to do, to show, without being driven to the fingernails of the "Aetonich" - to tell them so - neither in the square, nor in the Virgin Mary, nor anywhere else, but with the support of the state to join. I think it is necessary for Mr Mitterrand to accept it, and I think, Mr President, that you should take an initiative to be notified to receive them. I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u625	In view of the lack of Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, Mr Spirjis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u626	I'm here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u627	I'm sorry, you changed your position and I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u628	Here it is, Mr President. Not at all, but Mr. Metarakis likes her. It's the only motive for Mr. Mateatakis to come back, Mr. President. I would like to say, therefore, that we fully agree with the amendment tabled by KINAL, just please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u629	If you say KINAL, we don't want the support!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u630	The Change Movement, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u631	That's how it's been filed in the Marble Ice. The full name is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u632	I simply ask Mr Kegeroglu to present it in a separate article and not as an additional paragraph so that we can vote on it. Because with the rest of the article, we disagree. If Mr Metarakis accepts it, we'll have another government assailant in relation to everything he's done, the abolition of the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u633	Mr. Theodorikos, so they don't want you to accept it, because if you accept it, they say you're fucking. So they don't want you to accept it, so they have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u634	Mrs. Pulou Panagios by SYRIZA is invited to Step. He's not here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u635	It's coming, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u636	Good. Is Mrs. Konnakas coming, Mr. Synhronakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u637	He'll be here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u638	Then let us give the floor to the Minister. Minister, are you ready? Here, you have the floor, to say and record which parliamentary amendments you are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u639	There are some who sleep all day and wake up at night and are in the mood, Mr President, as far as I understand it. I feel a little bad about all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u640	That's the time the amendments have matured, too, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u641	Evidently all the ministerial amendments are accepted and the following parliamentary amendments are accepted: Amendment Nos 220 and 43, Amendment No 223 and specific No 46, Amendment No 222 and Special Amendment No 45, with the exception of paragraph 2, and finally, Amendment No 213 and Amendment No 36. With regard to the latter regarding the section of immigration policy, what you have said will be transferred to the Minister for Migration Policy and at a later stage you will be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u642	Mr President, can you make an effort to alert Mr. Metarakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u643	I'm guessing he'll be alerted. Let's move on. Mr. Kalamatiano, as far as I can see, he's not here. Mr. Spankis is here. You want to talk now, Mr. Spankee? I'm sorry, but in the meantime, Mrs. Pulou came in before her. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Pulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u644	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate my intervention in the section of the bill on local government, but before that I would also like to express my concern about what has been happening lately in our country. The Government of New Democracy after eight months has no plan for managing the refugee crisis. Just today, the creation of two closed centres, one in Serres, was announced to carry two thousand refugees and immigrants from the islands, but also the two who illegally crossed the Evros border. Is this an integrated crisis management plan, or are they fragmentary reactions under the pressure of its long-standing failure? Her ideological obsessions lead to the violation of international law, thereby exposing our country internationally. It speaks of an asymmetric threat, of health bombs, of invasion and other ideologies and undermines xenophobia, of racism, of reactionary reflexes in Greek society and threatens social cohesion. And while it was apologising for its operational action on the islands with the civil war situation that it has now caused, for a communication diversion, but also for its internal equilibrium, the snake of nationalism from its hibernation is awakening. When the New Democracy was opposition, it devastated the Macedonians, promising the cancellation of the Prespecies Agreement. Today, in order to attract this public again, it has found a new national account, the defence of our borders, and it is cultivating a climate of pseudo-patriotism and alleged solidarity, as if we were at war. At the same time, it allows for the development of dangerous phenomena, verbal violence against people in need, with the culmination of beatings of foreign journalists and citizens. This way of managing the crisis, as well as inappropriation and amateurs at foreign policy level, has pushed the country into a dead end and dangerous warp. SYRIZA as a responsible opposition and with the experience of government management of refugee - immigration has proposed concrete actions at national and European level. He has said by mouth of his President, but also of all the bodies of the Party, that for these large national issues there is a need for national understanding and that we are here to help with national planning, with respect for international conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Interior we are considering today includes provisions of four other ministries, resulting in a bill which has been put in consultation with 39 articles ending in plenary with 92 articles, and that is the way the New Democracy has systematically legislated since the beginning of its governance. The government's interventions to local government have so far not been successful if someone appreciates the amendments - more than 40 already - and their results. With the law on the governance of the municipalities, the deorganisation of the self-government institution began, attempted to weaken the mere analogy and the prospect of programming convergences and consensus at local level, weakened the municipal councils, altered the compositions of the administrative boards of the municipalities, and disfellowshipped the presidents of the local communities with legislative intervention which was judged by many special anti-constitutional bodies. This bill also requires the mayor's consent - Article 12(7). Ladies and gentlemen, the government is advertising that it introduces an integrated framework of development perspective, which hopes to be the point of reference to local development, and even for the first time since the establishment of the OTAs, as we read in the explanatory statement. But does it respond to the real development needs of the municipalities? No, because it does not introduce directions or a framework for development, but with a string of arrangements it designs a new framework of reliance on the municipalities from the Ministry of Interior and certainly does not forget its dear services. Considers that the development of the municipalities is identical to the implementation of some projects and comes to facilitate them, but on private terms, in this need. Specifically, under the pretext of the scientific, advisory and technical support of OTAs I and II grades for the development of projects introduces the new legal person of development agencies in the form of an anonymous company. Despite the improvements and amendments of the SYRIZA that the Minister has accepted during the drafting of the bill in committees and they prevent it from being shot down in the first appeal, not all issues of constitutional legitimacy have been resolved, such as the exercise of decisive competence by staff in relation to fixed-term private-law work. In Articles 4 and 5, the mayor is also required to certify the technical competence of his technical services or to replace the Head of the Technical Service and the Construction Service. It can therefore also legalise arbitrary structures, such as Article 12(9), where the integrated recycling centres and the multi-centre recycling centres of up to 60 square metres in designated public areas are excluded, photographing homes of particular companies. The regulation is not so photographic that it contains terms, such as the recycling multi-centres used by a particular company, but they do not even exist in the terminology of our national design. Truly, what purposes or any service is hidden behind these provisions? Is it a service to be involved? Because it certainly serves its customer system, which also serves with the creation of an army of post-advisor officials for new development agencies. There has also been an attempt to circumvent the SAAP. The New Democracy, as much as its interest in the functioning of the OTAs with its neoliberal ideological perspective, continues to see OTAs as business, mayors as managers and municipal councils as an obstacle, so it continues to downgrade democratic local administration and suspend local and regional referendums for the duration of this term. Ladies and gentlemen - to respect the time - we also have disagreements on Articles 41 and 42 concerning Greek citizenship, as well as on the fifth chapter on human resources in public administration. Gentlemen of the government, after eight months of government, you have not convinced us of your good intentions, but unfortunately neither of your inadequacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u645	Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u646	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to my position only to the amendment by the Ministry of Immigration, because it really impresses how it was presented as a cumulative solution for islanders. As a Member of Lesvos, I, too, have been following over the past few days the government's attempt to adopt what it has failed to impose on the islanders and to accept as a one-way path the permanent capture of thousands of refugees and migrants on the islands. You are still ignoring the palliative demand of the islands, from which you are asking to accept the role of the European Union's prisoner, by refusing even now to question the cause of their caging, the unacceptable agreement of the European Union with Turkey, when its most categorical failure is revealed. On the contrary, you are asking for its application. You are still insisting today on the fact that this agreement has become a rampant one, that you ask for it to be maintained and that you do not question the obligation to convert the islands into European Union prisons. The very development of events is what confirms in the most emphatic way the need to close all the hot spots from the islands and not to create new, closed or open. It confirms the need to decapitate all refugees and immigrants from the islands now. The directity with which the state chartered ships to bring and withdraw the MATs from the islands shows that what is lacking to move on to relocations and speed up asylum procedures is not the emergency arrangements to proceed with the exceptional procedures introduced by today's amendment, but the intention to question the European Union's policy, with which you, like SYRIZA, manage caging as before. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The provision in the amendment on the confidentiality procedures to be followed in the new structures, in information systems, in the registration of refugees and migrants also raises questions. All these days you play with the tolerances of people on the islands, shaping the ground, but also triggering - with the attitude of top government officials - dangerous groups making public calls of violence and acting as para-state enforcement mechanisms, terrorizing refugees, workers, journalists and anyone standing up against such detestable calls. I would call it a joke, if it were not criminal, the measure you present as a solution to allegedly alleviate the situation on the islands. What will you do with the obligation to leave hospitality structures and stop the material reception conditions from those who are recognised asylum beneficiaries in just thirty days' time? In other words, you are cutting off the already inadequate six-month period in which those who were entitled to asylum were included in the 'ESSTIA' programme by the High Commissioner. You will thus massively take the street homeless, hungry people without any possibility of medical care, education and all these enclaves in the islands and in the country. How will the refugee in a month be able to learn the language, work, earnestly to ensure his survival while excluding them from leaving the European Union, even when they have members of their family in these countries? What do you say? To remain locked in the country, in the islands, but to be homeless and exposed, with all the dangers that this means to them and to the rest of the population. The problem will be recycled, it will become more explosive, while you remain committed to the policy of caging. If there is now no question of questioning and conflicting with the Dublin Regulation and the agreements of the European Union and Turkey, no measures of repression, no hypocritical voice of support and the wishes of solidarity from European Union officials are going to face the deepening of the problem. The force you wanted to show the islanders, which you show to those who are rooted out of their homes, the interests which all governments are pilgrimizing, to show it to the true guilty, to the European Union, to distribute the refugees to its Member States who wish to reach and not to fund their caging in our country. This proposal, this is a solution that is in line with their rights, with international law, which will relieve them, which will relieve both the population on the islands and the rest of the country. The same hypocritical, of course, is what you are saying in various respects that you were supposed to be expecting your Europeans and NATO friends to be more stringent than the Turkish Government's completely uncovered behaviour. But who is this negotiator of the Turkish bourgeoisie, when they put their backs on and justify Turkish intervention in Syria to serve their own competitions, too? They themselves are responsible for the dissolution of the countries, for the uprooting of the peoples and the conditions for their caging. For these border violations, the Greek Government did not find a word to say. The European Union, the UN, if they really want to support the rights of refugees and show solidarity with the peoples, must organise asylum procedures within Turkey, at the border with Greece, at the border with Syria, through direct moves to their countries of destination. This measure will put an end to the extortion and the problems all these people pay for, it will also put an end to the problem of caging. The Greek people, particularly the population of the islands and the border regions, must now organise their struggle by turning their fires against the real leaders and the causes of the problem. It must strengthen the voice of dismantling the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, the Dublin Regulation, which leads thousands of people to caging, stop our country's participation in supporting and involving NATO's actions and operations, the United States in the Middle East region, which support Turkey's invasion of Syria, which support the interventions in Libya and perpetuate, of course, the war and the disasters that have caused the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u647	Thank you very much. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u648	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are called upon to vote for a framework law for the future of local government, as well as public administration, of the public administration that the SYRIZA government has exemplarily earned and, at the same time, undermined the daily lives of all citizens. But we must also recognise in this Chamber that local government is a key pillar for the country's development prospects, for improving the quality of life of all citizens. In critical times local government, local government workers, civil servants have demonstrated that priority is given to and has the public interest. Today we are going to discuss ninety-four articles which form the framework for the municipalities, for the regions, for the services we want to build. It is a bill that promotes strategic development and gives the local government perspective. We have had the opportunity in the past few days to present all our concerns and, above all, to make proposals to the committee responsible in this House. Proposals coming out of our daily contact with the citizens, with the workers. I saw the Ministry of Interior's political leadership, the secretaries, the advisers to record with particular interest the Members' proposals, others to be accepted and others to be processed for subsequent bills. This is also the institutional role of a Member. Today, however, we are talking about a bill that gives self-government flexibility, which gives self-government constant footprints to perform its institutional role. Of course, there are many others that we need to improve and improve quickly. We must, however, say that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the New Democracy Government, has shown strong reflexiveness, has gone through legislation to improve the services provided to the citizen, to improve the daily lives of all citizens. They are created in this bill by Local Government Development Organisations for specific purposes, to defend the public interest, which will help significantly the development of local communities and the implementation of visions of municipalities and regions. In short, with this bill, we are opening the door to self-government in the new decade, leaving behind all that has tortured self-government in the past decade. Development agencies will give real prospects, develop areas, meet future needs for many neighbourhoods across the country. Minister, I know your sensitivity to many Attica neighborhoods. I propose that we begin with the establishment of a Moschato Beach Development Agency, in order for the municipality and Region of Attica, by the side, to develop an area that is needed by the society of the southern suburbs, the society of Moschatos, the neighbourhood of the Moschato region, to finally give our children what we and our fathers, walking spaces, sports areas, green areas, spaces for everyone. Because I have listened very carefully to Mr Kegeroglou, the other colleagues of SYRIZA, the Communist Party, the Greek Solution, the Mera25, if you want to see the advantages of the Development Organisations, imagine how much advantages they can give if, for example, Tae Kivon Do is granted to the Old Faliro or Beach Volleyball, which the inhabitants of the region have seen for some twenty years in order to support the Attica region. So we see that we in this bill are talking in future about self-government. As we all know, the self-government in the decade has been beaten in every way, so I propose, Minister and dear rapporteurs, Mr Snowides, former Mayor, the reinstatement of the allowances, the expenses of representation of municipal councillors for a meeting this month, that is, for twelve meetings a year, irrespective of the number of meetings, as a sign of recognition of the work of the representatives of those who are stricken up to the problems of each neighborhood. This compensation will be borne by the budgets of the relevant OTAs and we will leave behind after the Katrugalu law on insurance, the Skourletis law on self-government. After all, the New Democracy's resignation over time has supported local government with important legislation and the era of Kostas Karamanlis, as well as the era of Antonis Samaras. It is true that the subsidization that has several services, such as technical services, OTA building services, are temporarily resolved by this bill, without that meaning that our long-term objective does not continue to be to strengthen the municipalities with permanent staff, with appropriate staff. There are important provisions in this bill, such as the Local Government Data Register, which will help improve the funding of municipalities and regions, but to have a comprehensive map, it creates flexibility to deal with several problems, several "holes" from the municipalities of the country and at the same time, it solves issues relating to education, where self-government plays an important role. Included are provisions for the relatives of the victims in Matti, clearing out how the chiefs are chosen, important provisions are in place for legal persons of the ATT, and there is a need to look for a further bill in order to strengthen the links of the municipalities that play an important role with special scientific staff, such as the SPA in my constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill I wanted to speak as a man who has served self-government for at least eight years, because I believe in strengthening self-government through a systematic dialogue, through the composition of opinions, but with protagonists for local communities, each having its own characteristics, its own advantages and disadvantages. In conclusion, I would like to say that the respect and encouragement of the hereditaries of those who contribute to the development of local government is above every article in this bill, a bill that finally creates a register of Philosophy Associations and Unions for the implementation of policies on stray pet animals, resolves issues relating to forest cooperatives, property leased by municipalities for the housing of infants, infants and children's stations, and goes on to the restructuring of serious public sector services. For all these reasons, and given the acceptance of my proposals, Minister, for the establishment of a Development Agency for the Development and Management of the Beach of Moscat, of a total of two hundred acres, the reintroduction of the compensation representation costs to the municipal councils for their participation in the meetings of the municipal councils, I would like to call on all the wings of this Chamber to vote in favour of this bill on the future of government and public administration. Let me tell you that I am pleased that my proposal was accepted in committee, which was a proposal from other colleagues, so that those who have finished polytechnic schools have additional molecules in choice - take care not to have misunderstandings - with a technical object and say that we have a lot ahead of us in other services, such as the upgrading and exploitation of the public sector economists, which is a constant request from the Chamber of Finance of Greece. With this in mind, therefore, I would like all the parties to vote in favour of this bill. It's a good base. It is a framework law, where we can build the self-government that we have seen for years, because many of us have served self-government, such as our rapporteur, Savvas Snowides. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u649	Thank you, too. The speakers are done. We shall now go to the rapporteurs and special speakers. You all want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u650	Mr President, we should confine ourselves to giving up this right, because I think we have all said it. That's my place. Mr. Metarakis, however, we are looking for Mr. Metarakis. We do not have an answer as to whether he accepts our amendment. He came, told us and left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u651	We're looking for him. We can't find him. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u652	Minister, you have brought four amendments with thirty articles together. They alone constitute an additional draft law. I am saying this in relation to your pompous declarations on the principle of good lawmaking, which, of course, go for a walk. We, of course, are not surprised by this practice. It was a practice of the previous governments too. Besides, this is urban democracy. And all this in the face of the anguish of the New Democracy Government, as SYRIZA did in his term, to launch barbaric measures against refugees and immigrants, reducing the country's aid and stay from six months to one month. Accompanying the provisions, the draft law is supplemented by amendments that further downgrade the role of municipal councils in the name of cybercrificy, in order to achieve measures to strengthen private capital in works and cleanliness services, green and lighting, the tradition of archaeological and historical sites to private individuals, such as the case of the National Garden and Philippi, as well as the completion of the commercialisation of electricity with the Energy Exchange and as well. As far as the amendments are concerned, we are starting with the amendment with a general number of 214 and a special number of 37. We have said that this particular amendment in itself is a bill with sixteen articles. As a whole, we are voting against it. In Article 1, which concerns legal control in the decisions of the municipal councils, we are negative. In fact, it repeats the provisions that were in place for the strictest. Where it fails to sideline the municipal regional councils is increasing the threat of repressive control by introducing the disciplinary offence, so that decisions of the regional authorities in question are not reversed, especially in voting and amending budgets, balance sheets and go by saying. Article 4, which concerns the amendment of the Code of Nationality, will be voted against. Three years to incorporate these people hypocritically states the draft law is not enough, including them in the category of applicants for the acquisition of Greek citizenship as a precondition before submitting an application for seven years. This is unacceptable, punishing regulation, which, among other things, does not ensure that, after seven years of age, Greek citizenship will ultimately be acquired. In Article 7, which deals with the suspension of the examination of applications for staff of nursing establishments, we will say'residents'. Our Parliamentary spokesman for these matters was particularly concerned. It suspends the examination of health-based personnel’s applications based on the forecasts of coronary mobility and, he says, on the proper functioning of the health system. The problem with the coming epidemic is understandable and real. What the government cannot hide, however, is that the responsibility of all governments remains largely subordinated to all public health units. So such a policy to curb recruitment, despite the government's declarations of preparedness and other tyrants, has a negative impact both on the defence of the health of the healthy population and on the conditions of work of the health workers. That is why the explanatory statement mentions the review after the current crisis and if the needs allow it. In Article 8, on the establishment of the protection scales of unaccompanied minors, we will also say'residents'. Such a measure is fragmentary once the public structures relating to the protection of unaccompanied minors are insufficient and understaffed and as the involvement of the various non-governmental organisations continues. In Article 9 of this amendment we will say 'no'. It concerns regional composition, the decision of the Ministries of Finance and Interior and at the level of the Directorate-General, special inter-university technical services, new study organisational tools under the close supervision of the Government and the Ministry of Interior to probably run the reasonable business projects that are leading the municipalities, the absorption and the orientation of the NRP funds. Of course, these structures go hand in hand with the weakening of technical services in the municipalities. We have referred in detail to our introductory speech. Article 10 concerns the establishment of a public limited company for the National Garden and Philippi. We will say 'no'. An anonymous company under the name "National Garden". Metropolitan Green S.A.’. With this amendment, which is not even signed by the co-legislative Minister for Culture, the management of the National Garden and the Philippi hill is handed over to a public limited company, which, together with the Municipality of Athens - which will be paid by him - will operate on the basis of specific private economic criteria and can even lease spaces to third parties. We believe that the management of these sites should be in the direction of safeguarding the special characteristics that have their protection, their unobstructed performance with the Athenians, the people in general, and the banning of their commercial activity. For people's markets and the introduction of fixed clean-up loans in Articles 15 and 16, respectively, we say 'yes'. In the amendment with a general number 215 and a special 38 for the company "Greek Energy Exchange Anonymous Company" we will say "no". SYRIZA legislated it on Law 4512/2018. We were then placed by an oral secretary of our party. King's King, SYRIZA in the electricity sector, proceeded with the "Energy Exchange" to give a vital place to place more plentiful capital in the exploitation of electricity. Now the New Democracy Government is generalizing it. SYRIZA paved the way, came and completed by New Democracy. It goes on to take the next step with this amendment. It takes off the "Energy Exchange" from the public and the wider public sector and passes to the full control of the monopolistic groups in energy, in order to avoid buying cheap electricity to shield their profits. The result is the higher launching of the cost of spending paid by people's households on energy. I would like to end by saying that Amendment No 219, and Amendment No 42, is a general amendment. Article 1 is unacceptable. It further reduces the role of municipal councils in the name of cybercrificiality, transferring powers to conclude and award public contracts for the execution of solid waste and recyclable materials, cleanliness, green and lighting services to the economic committee, as well as the power to submit proposals by the municipality to finance or grant actions and projects by private entities. This is an amendment demanding private capital contractors to proceed with the deletion of these services without any hindrance at all. The next step is to remove the municipal councils too! We are voting against Article 3. It's about the same as under Article 92 of the draft law. Under Article 3 of the amendment, the Government submits that since the three directors-general have the right to a final signature for the decision on the basis of Article 109 of Law No4622/2019, their simultaneous participation in the Museum Council is not allowed, in accordance with Article 7 of Law No.2690/1099. However, the specific Article in paragraph 2 which describes the cases of the incompatibility states that the members and members of the collective bodies must refrain from any action or procedure involving participation in a decision or opinion, provided that: firstly, the fulfilment of their personal interest is linked to the outcome of the case; secondly, they are spouses or relatives of blood or stress as a fourth grade with some of the parties concerned; thirdly, they have a particular link or particular relationship or animosity with the parties concerned; and, thirdly, restrictions which do not concern the general directors as positions or responsibilities, but as natural persons such as any other member of the Museum Council. That is why we are voting against. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u653	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is adjourned. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, ninety-one articles, eight amendments, the nominated article and all. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u654	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u655	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u656	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior ‘Privatial Development Perspective of Local Government Institutions, regulation of matters of competence of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u657	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u658	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The Minutes of Thursday 9 January 2020, Friday 10 January 2020, Monday 13 January 2020, Thursday 16 January 2020 and Friday 17 January 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u659	The minutes of Thursday 9 January 2020, Friday 10 January 2020, Monday 13 January 2020, Thursday 16 January 2020 and Friday 17 January 2020 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-05-S1-commons.u660	With the consent of the House at 23.42 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, March 6, 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a. Refers to International Women's Day, b. parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and debate No. 14-8-20-2-2020 topical question by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, on the subject of "Destructive and impractical transition proposed by Mr Mitsotakis to the lignite regions of Greece".
