ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2021’. I am pleased to inform you that all colleagues will speak. Indeed, for the first time after many years, the last speakers of the last cycle will also have tolerance, while we have usually cut time, so that they can speak and vote. This year we have no problem. So you will also speak to the twelve colleagues. It is left - it is not here, but it will come - a parliamentary representative, Mr Gregoriadis. For anyone who wants from the parliament, there will be a six-minute speech, a dentist, and around 13:30' will start going up in the Step in the reverse, with the leaders of our parties, with the legitimate hope that we will end quite early in connection with other years, somewhere between 20.00' and 21.00'. We won't have to go until midnight. Of course, they are both the ministers, the Finance and the State, who are usually speaking between Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis. So we shall begin with our first colleague, Mr Christodoulou Stefanade, from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, we are living at a time when we have imagined impossible in the past few years in our own country. With a lot of trouble, deprivation and great difficulties, the country managed to stand up from a crisis and enter a development period. The country had therefore entered a period of growth and good prospects. The new, however, unprecedented test, the COVID pandemic -19, came to clean up our economy again, a pandemic which has tried hard in recent months the national health system and which has caused it to collapse in other countries and even developed health. However, the enormous economic and social consequences that it has caused will unfortunately be seen more in 2021, both in Greece, of course, and worldwide. In particular for Europe, on the occasion of the pandemic, it will be necessary to redefine the value code - on which the European Union is structured - and with the pillars, which are peace, security, stability, democracy and prosperity. In particular, the acquis of security, stability and prosperity in particular must be safeguarded. The fundamental factor is the development of the pandemic and the consequences that will exist in both the international and the Greek economy. Although there is relative uncertainty as to the future development of the pandemic, which involves possible mutations of the hazardous virus or other parameters, with any impact on the international and Greek economy, science progresses rapidly to give effective solutions. COVID -19, ladies and gentlemen, initially found the global scientific community unprepared. However, within record time vaccines were discovered, tested, passed all test phases and ready for use in the community. Very soon the Greeks will also be made available to us and, more protected now, we will be called upon to deal with the consequences of the greatest health crisis in the hundreds of years. It is even said that the economic crisis, which is the result of the pandemic of COVID -19, is the most important thing that globalism has ever known since the major recession in 1929. The World Bank's forecasts refer to declining the world economy by 5.6% and advanced West economies by 7%. The pandemic that humanity experiences has brought to light many of the bad texts of the global health system, which, in many countries, such as neighbouring Italy, has unfortunately collapsed, cannot be effectively managed by the large number of patients, especially the severe illnesses. So far, thankfully, we have not experienced the dramatic scenario for intensive care units to be forced to choose which patients will benefit from mechanically assisted breathing. However, the health system in our country is tested daily. At this point, we should point out that the Ministry of Health and the Government have so far managed to keep the country on a very good level, especially as regards dealing with the huge volume of patients in all parts of the country and especially in northern Greece. The budget, ladies and gentlemen, of 2021, which we are called upon to vote in this unfavourable environment, sets objectively realistic objectives for both containment and recovery of the economy and support for the health system with the new data that we are facing. In particular, it is a difficult but effective objective. It's evolution, rapid recovery and growth after. This will be achieved by proper management and financial allocation. It is worth noting that in 2019 growth in Greece was above the average European level, which would certainly have continued if we were not faced with the new pandemic and its dramatic consequences. The Ministry of Finance is working on a national strategic development plan. For this year alone, liquidity injection is expected to exceed EUR 12 billion. The budget is of a reformist nature and of course, as in 2020, it is easily adaptable to the growing needs that appear, increased needs in all sectors, especially health. In 2020, the National Health System was staffed with more staff and equipment, strengthening health expenditure by about EUR 800 million. But are these health investments enough in an area that is constantly being tested? Of course not. That is why it is important to increase funds for the health system for 2021. This will continue to support the ERC with additional staff, modernising structures and new infrastructure. Overall, support measures related to the treatment of pandemic are estimated at EUR 7.5 billion. At the same time, there are very important social benefits in this budget, involving both natural persons and businesses. Finally, the budget for next year provides for a rise of 4.8%. Is that possible? If we consider the effectiveness shown so far by the Government of New Democracy, the effectiveness of the Ministry of Finance and the desire of a large majority of the Greek people, we believe that it is possible. To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but mention the problems of the eastern Aegean and, in particular, the many people of Samos who are directly associated with the budget being voted on. Although the news lights left the island, the tragic effects of the catastrophic earthquake remain and concern the large number of homeless people, thousands of damaged homes, hundreds of damaged businesses and unprecedented disasters on roads, ports, churches and archaeological sites. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis rushed to the island in the first 24 hours of the earthquake. It ordered immediate measures to be taken concerning the healing of wounds and the restoration of damage, by way of any bureaucratic delay procedure. Government and administration have indeed become aware and are moving in the right direction. Nevertheless, it is necessary to speed up the procedures with coordinated action by the relevant ministries so that the coming winter does not find damaged homes, businesses, infrastructures and ruined lives. He has suffered enough and Samos suffers from the migration problem. The attending minister is well aware of the matter. I believe that the new budget has the budgetary margin to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Eleftheriadou Sultana.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last four days, Ministers and Blue MPs have been paralyzing this step and repeating the same. "Room," they say. ‘Third in 2020 for the Government of New Democracy’. "The Mitsotakis example for Europe and for Greece, a true, true leader". Congratulations and bows to his majesty. I wonder, honestly, you are not at all concerned about the fact that your Chief was on a pandemic all summer, while he had opened the border without a plan, why was he raped to celebrate his so-called victory over the pandemic? Does not it concern you that while the world is suffering, he constantly demonstrates his riches along with his wife and supposedly aristocratic origin? Doesn't it bother you that your Chief just a few weeks ago has learned that there are people living from their wages and yet does he think that the Greeks are saving in the middle of a pandemic? To avoid talking about his dozens of homes, his loans, his relationships with offshore and businessmen, such as Marvas's benefactor, who we declared him a national benefactor for ridiculous porpoises and ultimately the nation is his benefactor. Does his bike not bother you in Parnitha, his irresponsible and inadmissible behavior? Not to say about your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, who apart from saying the background that he does not want the troika to take the glory to him and that it is his decision to subsecute the HSH, in the midst of a pandemic he said the ridiculous argument that Greeks do not need any more money to keep them from getting fat. He came here yesterday to fight SYRIZA's MPs, because we relied on ELSTAT's evidence, the champion in lies and "associated." While you know that you have failed miserably, you are coming here to justify your unjustified and satisfy your self-centered, "...", your careless Chief. At best, some of you are talking about mistakes and omissions, without, of course, mentioning something specific, while it goes without saying that we are living in an unprecedented situation, and it is self-evident and now proven that the mistakes and omissions, the criminal errors you have made, are not due to either failure or lack of a plan. It was a conscious, ideological and political choice of your Chief and your resignation. You chose to bring society to despair in the midst of a pandemic. You have chosen to support private interests, friends and “loan” by scattering public money with hundreds of direct assignments. You have chosen to give the workers the tribute and leave them to the mercy of the pandemic. You chose to subscribe public structures and sell the public property at this particular point in time and timing. And the worst part is you'll repeat it with your choices. The Pissaridis project and the way the government chooses to waste the money from the Recovery Fund will lead the country with mathematical accuracy in a lasting crisis of social cohesion. They will lead to a rapid reduction in incomes, an increase in unemployment, an increase in backpacks in businesses and a rapid social inequality, because according to the Pissaridis plan, the troubled small and medium-sized enterprises from the ten-year crisis are 'jobbs' and their owners', because according to the Pissaridis report, the underpaid wage and unemployment benefit should be abolished, while allowances should only be given to the extreme poor, because supplementary pensions will only be in the time of history. It is easy to say that your opposition is easily criticised and populated. What do you have to say, however, about what the social partners tell you? First, they tell you that you failed to manage the pandemic. Tens of complaints from the beginning of the previous quarantine until today that the Government did neither a sufficient number of tests nor with reliable statistics did the hospitals strengthen nor took effective measures to avoid lockdown. The sanitaries filed press reports against you. They filed press reports against any possible government responsible, based on specific, substantiated reports of shortcomings in the treatment of patients for the ICUs. They stress that the government on its own sole responsibility has completely ceased its communication with the hospital doctors. They stress that in many cases it did the opposite of what the hospital doctors required. You have even reached the point of concealing the official suggestions of university epidemiologists from the public. I'm talking about the letter of 16-32020 in the university, which you were advised to conduct a mass test, except for others. The results are to have about three thousand seven hundred deaths in one and a half months, a negative European record in deaths per 100 000 population. And what are you doing? You're lying to doctors, you're trying to load your criminal responsibilities on them, and you're sending them to disciplinary if they get sick. And of course what are you doing in this budget? No additional costs for dealing with the pandemic are foreseen for ERC equipment and infrastructure, nor for permanent recruitment of doctors, and you are still voting for it. Secondly, you are told that you have failed to manage the economy. The GFCM says that the survival of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises is left to chance, that there are no substantial support measures. The ESS says that the profits you give are only for strong trade and not for small and medium-sized enterprises. You're a bell ringing at the Athens Chamber of Commerce and he tells you that a hundred and fifty thousand businesses will close. You are begging for commercial clubs and chambers throughout Greece, hotel owners, accommodation owners, cafes, restaurants are begging you for help because they have been destroyed. I'm not talking about the free professionals who have reached the absolute dead end. What did you do? You have only spent EUR 6.7 billion on strengthening the economy, of which EUR 3 billion on loans. We have the second worst performance in the recession in the European Union in the third quarter of Lockdown and the turnover of stores has fallen by 60%. In the paper you are reported by GSEE, the labour centres and the primary unions. “We are hungry”, workers in tourism and foodstuff tell you by their announcement. At this point you have made them. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did you do? You have subsidised unemployment, not labour. You have optimised employment contracts, reduced wages, brought no framework for teleworking now imposed by the State. And what are you doing now? No support to your budget for workers in tourism, seasonal, professionals, scientists, the long-term unemployed, culture, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what you vote on. You have failed in education completely. Why does this Education Minister remain and what interests does he serve? Nobody knows. He has lost the trust of students, parents and teachers. He failed to meet the needs of the pandemic, by ensuring, with the responsibility of the State, the necessary technological equipment for children, he failed to open up with design and success the schools, and he certainly brought bills - during the pandemic, with almost closed Parliament - reactionary, anachronistic and deep neoliberal, which brought the entire educational community against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u5	Slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u6	Just one more minute, Mr President, and I'm closing. You failed foreign policy. At the recent European Council, Mr Mitsotakis recorded a huge failure and bears the burden of responsibility. In social solidarity and welfare you have also failed, and while you know that everyone's income has collapsed - and not just minimum incomes, but also medium-sized ones - you have reduced the state's aid in this area too. Your state only concerns extreme poverty and not society as a whole. In migration too, you have failed miserably. A slap on the government's new report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u7	All right, you're done, Mrs. Eleftheriadou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u8	All you have achieved is communication, doing what your Chief said: "We are interested in communication rather than substance." You are therefore a failed government and you have a failed Prime Minister, who exposes you every day with his carelessness. You are the worst government ever since the Migration in Greece, fake and provocative. A false and provocative budget is also yours, which unfortunately demonstrates that morality does not exist in politics. There is only appropriateness and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u9	Listen. Every member who goes to Stepma is in charge of his words and freely expresses his views. According to Article 77, however, freedom of speech cannot reach insults. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you described the Prime Minister of the country as "......". I ask you, with your consent, to delete the designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u10	I do not take the label back because there are dozens - not to say hundreds - of articles in the middle of a pandemic which both the Prime Minister and his wife show their wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u11	You know what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u12	Calm down! Mr. Ministers, calm down! Mr President, if you think that you're not getting caught by the Bureau, you're wrong. You said you didn't call it off. After you deny it, I am using my own right and I would ask that Mrs Eleftheriadou be deleted from the Minutes under this designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u13	"Supporter" means saying, not ".........".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u14	He doesn't know what he said!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Besyropoulou, did anyone give you the floor? With what you're saying, you give her an alibi. I accept that she knows very well what she said and that is why I made her note. This designation shall be deleted from the minutes. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u16	I said he displayed his riches and his christening life in the middle of a pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u17	You wanted to say "protectionist"?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u18	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u19	Good. You said one more thing. Correct it, then! Did it have to be a whole fuss to understand it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u20	They got it all right. We don't have to scream and ring the beads.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u21	Mr Giannoulis, the one who reads the Minutes in the future, cannot know what the speaker has in mind. He reads what he reads. Others, therefore, are the "demonstrator" and the ".........". Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we must all say that we are lucky that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is the one that holds the fate of our country in this difficult pandemic crisis and can stand the boat up. Eleftheriadou before, in a crescendo of arrogance, tried to level everything, tried to level the social sensitivity of the government, tried to level what has been done this time, so that the Greek society could stand up and above all the sanitary part of our country. We are therefore pleased that this government has dealt with so sensitive and responsiblely all these facts. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to have a debate with an accountable character and it is useful to rely on facts, facts and facts that cannot be disputed. It cannot be disputed that in an unprecedented situation worldwide the government supported the economy and society with measures of EUR 24 billion in 2020. The National Health System, the workers, the unemployed, the professionals and enterprises with liquidity injections and incentives to maintain employment were strengthened. Subsidies were granted for first-stage loans and total sectors were supported which were most hit. It cannot be disputed that, thanks to these measures, the recession was reduced by seven whole percentage points. In other words, it would be about 40% deeper. And this retention is translated into businesses and professionals who have remained standing and standing, to workers who have continued to have income, to consumers who have continued to buy goods and services, to households who have been able to meet their obligations. It cannot be disputed that, together with the blows made by the pandemic to the economy, unforeseen and urgent needs brought additional burdens for the management of refugees and migrants and the armoring of borders, for the damages and works that were required following the natural disasters of 'January', the floods in Evia or the earthquake in Samos or for the reimbursement of pension cuts. It cannot yet be called into question that, despite the fact that since March the government has been constantly running an unprecedented state of emergency, it has continued to work to deal with problems it has inherited and to lay the foundations for a dynamic next day for our country, for investment projects that have been dragging back for years, for public enterprises that have been on the brink of bankruptcy, for red loans to be reduced to have a second chance for people and businesses caught up in their debts. These, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be called into question. In a year that went completely backwards, there was a government that did what was going through its hand to keep the country up. That's why they offend the people's intelligence that those from time to time write and say, without any signs of shame, that the New Democracy has brought the crisis. The New Democracy Government was and will be, for as long as necessary here, a support for all those who are tested, having foreseen measures of EUR 7.5 billion in 2021 to support incomes, workers and businesses, but also a special reserve of EUR 3 billion to fight, if the consequences of the pandemic are worse than expected, which we all miss. At the same time, however, it continues to prepare the ground so that the economy will quickly recover and stay behind by those who have been hit irreparablely since this year's recession. It prepares with a plan the use of EUR 32 billion by the so-called recovery mechanism with the first instalments to be expected within 2021, but also the EUR 40 billion available through the European programmes for the period 2021-2027. It goes on to make use of public property, with the revenues from privatisation of companies and infrastructure, such as regional ports, estimated at around EUR 3,9 billion for 2021. It supports our most vulnerable fellow citizens by increasing by EUR 600 million the social benefits that OPEK will pay next year, and within them and the long-term unemployed with an ambitious programme for the creation of tens of thousands of jobs. It continues to strengthen the National Health System with people, infrastructure and equipment, as well as education, having planned several recruitments of permanent teachers. These are the elements that allow us to hope that growth will begin to be reversed in the second quarter of next year. They allow us to hope with an upward course with a duration of time, whose results will be tangible to the many. We know that we still have a road before us with traps and blind turns, as the factors of uncertainty remain. We have, however, demonstrated that we have the readiness, the means, the speed and the flexibility to act as and when necessary. Spread a protection net for those in need, up to where our strength arrives, and without taking the country to the rocks, as if we could hear it "give me a bar" of counterpopulation. The next day of the pandemic must find the country with the least possible losses, ready to take the big step forward. So within the uncertainty of the time, our fellow citizens can be certain of one thing: that they have a government working for it, a government on which they can rely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Before we move on, ladies and gentlemen, let me inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Wednesday 16 December 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Lambropoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Practical information for the register of farmers and farmers from professional farmers who have lost the deadline'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 245/11-12-2020 topical question by MP I Athens of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christoforou Vernardakis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Supervisory exercise by the Ministry of the Interior (YPA) in the Municipality of Athens". 3. The question by No 263/14-12/2020, by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Coverishment of the lost income of vineyard growers'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 246/11-12-2020, by Mr. Larisa, Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Vassilis Kossilis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Support for cotton". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 266/14-12-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Problems of the small and medium-sized olive producers of Crete". 3. Under No 248/11-12-20, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theanos Fotio to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Thousands of beneficiaries of the European Aid Fund to the Most deprived of the food and first-demand species that are entitled to benefit from the Minimum Guaranteed Income (EEA) (e.g. (CRLs) in the context of a health and economic crisis.’ 4. The question under number 250/13-12-2020 by SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Urgent need to take measures to support Greek beekeepers". Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue on the budget. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask colleagues in this debate who have exhausted many arguments, not only to be sensitive to words, but also to the results and concepts and picture that exist in Greek society today. In the context of national understanding, which in recent days you are urging us to follow after the successive failures on specific issues, I intended to begin with a self-criticism, with an apology, if and wherever necessary, in order to have national understanding. But yesterday I, too, received an acoustic, sound attack from the Minister of Development, which reminded me of an incident. It's not a joke. It's a reality. Many years ago in Katerini, a farmer decided, due to the tourist movement, to open a car rental shop. A European tourist in Katerini came many years ago to rent a car. So he was trying to get in touch with the new owner of the store. At some point he's been asked for a diploma in Greek. Obviously, man does not understand what 'diploma' means. He insists: 'a diploma, to rent it for you'. The tourist doesn't understand. He's trying to ask him if he knows English. At the end, the owner of the car store found the solution: "WI - WILL - MA!" The European tourists did not understand again. The owner thought that by increasing the intensity of his voice, the language also changed. So, as far as the acoustic attack is concerned, Mr Georgiadis' sound attack yesterday, one thing should be left: the guilty one goes up decibel. And the one who celebrates the victims of the pandemic is not entitled to speak. The concepts "autocritical" and "excuse" are words unknown to Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The careless human Prime Minister would set an example or model for all Greeks to do what no one should do. However, we cannot seek logic in the New Democracy. You are tired of the delayed exhortations: make suggestions, make suggestions, make suggestions, because when a long period of deaf dialogue took place, that is to say, the opposition and the government proposed, on the chariot of arrogance, reject them categorically. You have been instructed to rule, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Government Mitsotakis. You've received a strong command. Of course you've done it with a documented, conscious lies. But I will remind you - and I will not stop doing so - how consistent you were before the pandemic, so that we can also have a order of magnitude of your honesty, honesty and consistency. If Mr Stagioras were here - or if Mr Besiropoulos could take it to him - it still sounds like one of the measures, one of the eighteen of Mitsotakis - now that PPC's accounts are increased and no one admits it from the government - which would put us on the highways of development, it was that he would abolish the rewarding end of ERT. It announced that it would be possible for the middle-class to take a breath, reduce indirect taxes and charges from the ERT payroll, which is the only main shareholder in the Ministry of Finance. Is it abolished? Is it reduced? On the contrary! You have opened the door of public service broadcasting and you have set up the red carpet of recruitment and waste that your signature again had in 2009 when you went bankrupt. Looking for the budget, the one you have brought to the vote, Mr Ministers, the most favourable regulation that exists in all this wave of problems is that of the owners of television stations. Their liability for the price of licences is transferred, transferred, transported, transferred. It's the most favourable arrangement. Of course, we understand what this practice ensures. We are not going to get to know each other now, nor do I need to repeat once again that you have failed. You failed in the second wave in health, pandemic, economics, support for the weak and many. But you underestimate our intelligence and that's not right. You describe another country than the one we live in. You think we all live in front of a TV screen and we don't understand anything about the rest. You said you wouldn't leave anyone alone. I have numbered: Long-term unemployed, you leave them alone. Seasonal workers, you leave them alone. Working teachers in the professional school of apprenticeships, in another Chamber you are planning with a bill from the Ministry of Education almost their dismissal. They are teachers who have for years set back on a more modern approach to vocational education that will bring Greece a step further in the face of the European acquis. Physical treatment, swimming. Our children are drowning in the summer. In the next room, in the Ministry of Education bill - because you want to lighten the budget - you are once again planning their dismissal or placement on holiday. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please have your tolerance for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u25	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u26	I would like to tell you that no one is pleased about all this, ladies and gentlemen. No one triumphs. No one says that image is satisfying us. Apart from one, but you found him and put him in Mr. Pikramenos's counseling. And he laughs and cries and everyone bitter about the fact that Mr. Gregory Psarianos, the man who argued "happily the virus will reap some systolics to clear up the place", is now a member of your Government and you are not ashamed! You're talking about suggestions. With the tolerance of Mr Kaklamani, I am entering the last seconds of an equally substantial side. If it broke the wall of the one-sided and cynical propaganda that Mr Petsas originally secured, and then Mr Staikoras, public opinion would be frightened by the proposals that were made, which were not accepted and the solutions that were preferred. We have proposed that there should be universal control of the community by testing. You don't care! We suggested opening up tourism with strict protocols and controls. You're criminally indifferent. Three weeks were entered by Balkan tourists from Promahona, without a workshop of EGEH being there. We propose to you the early strengthening of the ESS in specific ways, recognising that the success of the first wave is credited to both you and the citizens. You've come up with fissures in Santorini! As the Minister of Development said, the noisy Mr. Georgiadis - who celebrates that we only have a hundred dead a day! - Mr. Mitsotakis made the need for an emoticon and was spinning with a towel on the shoulder from the beach to the beach, to promote - he says - the country's tourist image. We ask you even now what you say only to your monologues on the channels. Nobody alone! An extraordinary income for all those who do not have one euro for the next few months. There's no money. But there are 3 million people in this period for the Greeks, our compatriots, to know how to vote. Three million! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I've been through a lot of time. Heavy and unhealthy to doctors, unpaid overtime, insecurity, hostility to health, applause with no effect and all because in your life and your conscience the only responsibility that exists is against party and political survival. I also wanted to say something about transport and Mr Karamanlis - I will not do it - about the bitter truth about urban transport in Athens and Thessaloniki. I will submit a detailed answer to the Minutes describing everything, what you have not done for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u27	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u28	That's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. I just want to remind you of two things. Remember that in 2016 the OSH in Thessaloniki went bankrupt. He's in debt! The only way out was for all the people on the street to shut down and throw away and the city to stay without transportation. And everything you say, Mr Karamanlis, I remind you that the current Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, Mr Karaoglou, was saying exactly the same. And he arrived in court in July 2019, a few days after his oath, asking for apologies, public apologies, and reconstructing his slanders. Mr. Karaoglu! Don't find yourself, Mr. Karamanlis, in his place! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Sedetakis will now take the floor, then Mr. Zouraris, Mr. Gülekas and Mr. Ragus. After Mr Ragosissi, because he has not spoken at all as a parliamentarian on four days, Mr Gregoriadis will be speaking as a Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25. And there are four colleagues left to complete the twelfth: Mr Georgios Amanatidis, Mrs Cassimatis, Mr Salmas and Mr Janakopoulos. Here, Mr. Sedetakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the adventures the country experienced this year will go through, despite the tragic losses. The danger of pandemic, we'll all get through it together. The state has taken care that people are now being vaccinated. We will gradually be returning to normality from the beginning of the new year. The 2021 budget, which we are discussing today, therefore, actually opens the debate on the next day when we have defeated the virus. Political questions remain and refer to objectives. Can Greece return to normality? Greece can not only return to normality, but can claim even higher positions in international competitiveness. Can Greece become a smart country? Greece must become a smart state that will serve the citizens intelligently. Can Greece finally come out of the multiannual crisis? It is time that Greece will run at high growth rates. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to put the bar high, now is the time to highlight the positive agenda, to stimulate the morality of citizens. The health crisis has created uncertainty, insecurity and pessimism for citizens. And because we all know that the economy is psychology, in this debate on the budget of 2021 we have to talk about the future, about a new starting point, obviously without illusions, without delusion. Evidence of the vast work carried out under unprecedented, unrealistic, almost warfare. The government was invited to manage both the health crisis and the crisis in Greek-Turkish. But he did. What should anyone be invited first? The meth beds that more than doubled in a short time? The thousands of new recruitments of medical and nursing personnel organised? The EUR 24 billion measures found and made available in 2020 for the pandemic crisis? The taxes and social security contributions that continued to be reduced? The organisation and upgrading of civil protection that wins the battles of pandemic and extreme weather phenomena? The organization of teleworking and digital transition? The organization of tele-education? The effective prevention of the Turkish threat to Evros, Flevaris and the Aegean in the summer? Half, about, billion euros for the Armed Forces? In health, education, work, economy, civil protection, defence, the state gave them all tests and passed them with almost perfect ones. Where questions came from, there were answers. Where problems arise, there were solutions. How many times and the majority of citizens have not wondered what would have happened if it were not the government that would have been called upon to raise this unprecedented burden? In order not to be far away, all this work, all this methodicity and responsibility shown by the Greek state in the previous period, are reflected in a word: 'confidence'. Confidence of citizens, who together we are all facing this unprecedented crisis, trust and markets from which we have secured the necessary money to stand up to pandemic. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if we had not recovered, if we had not upgraded this precious asset called 'confidence', the markets would not have been friendly with us, nor would our partners be in solidarity with each other and generous. It is the confidence that the government has inspired from the outset, which allowed it to borrow in comfort and in very good terms. And it is the confidence that has provided the EUR 32 billion European funds agreed at the recent European Union Council and will invade the next period in our country, EUR 18 billion in loans and EUR 14 billion in subsidies. It is not a small amount, and we need to use it all. State and business will give tests, we will work together, so that we can make use of the funds within timescales. Everything that's not absorbed will be lost. The development plan that we are debating with the European Commission is the roadmap for our immediate future. We know that there will be no budgetary diversions and diversions. The cost of the financial adjustment paid by the citizens over the past few years will not be lost, because there is now a prudent government. We also know that the reforms that started between 2012 and 2015 and which yielded fruit will continue with even greater zeal over the coming period. After all, they have already made significant progress this year in adverse conditions. They won't stop the new year in normal conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, the next day's bet is big, but we know how to turn the pandemic into an opportunity. The green transition is a gigantic project and a political choice of the highest strategic importance. On the other hand, digital upgrading is the challenge and the opportunity for the new era. Already the country enters the first era of the fifth generation networks, while the digital transformation book with a range of projects that offer incredible added value to new business initiatives will create new high-paid jobs. The gradual reduction of taxes and insurance contributions in conjunction with the digital state will create the pro-investment environment for the influx of new capital and the creation of new jobs. And, of course, all of this requires security, an additional EUR 2.5 billion for the upgrading of the Armed Forces' dignity is planned for the new year. I repeat, we do not cultivate illusions, we do not have deceit. We know what we have done, we know what we are doing, and we know what we are going to do, to bring Greece back to growth and prosperity with solid production bases and infrastructures. I am voting in favour of the 2021 budget, in order to distinguish our country from the competitive environment of globalisation, which is where the Greeks know how to distinguish ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u31	My colleague will now take the floor from SYRIZA Mr Konstantinos Zouraris. Here, Mr. Zurari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, my respects and my pleasure to speak under your presidency.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u34	Berezina! Berezina, as you know, was preceded by Vatterlo. "Berzeina" had the government at the Synod the day before yesterday, because it sunk in those maritime areas of the "blue country" of the Agarenes. "Berzeina": At two o'clock at night he was, of course, thrown away by our Prime Minister, because he was also given a given and given because he was tied up. Sanctions go too because sanctions are not necessary, we are basically sufficen to have a tourist raid in March for the two hundred years of Reis outside the Scaramaga shipyards. So far it'll arrive, then maybe it'll be the Waterlo. We are now in 'Beresina'. And suddenly my fiancé Prime Minister and my personal surrogate and Thanasis succeeded in this, too, this incredible 'basse classe' situation to describe that the employees are dependant, not so called 'dependent' - depended, yes - i.e. they need rehab. Well, what kind of spiritual disgust is that? Is it possible by our only Prime Minister? And the other, his soft-ass minister, when in his panties he devours us Thessalonians - us Thessalonians! - because we are unspeakable in our behaviour and forgets the flowers of the Balkans that came in the summer and dispersed without any control. And suddenly it's the ICUs, the Thessalonians, and possibly our dead. The sucker's back together or toss him back where he comes from, from nothing. And of course it seems that the 'Wheat, scribes and Pharisees' said it about your government. It's unbelievable. Suddenly, "You men are devouring the houses of the widows." Woe unto you, secretarial ministers and Pharisee hypocrites, that ye also shall devour the first habitation of the widows, the rest, all men, and all! Destroy your first residence! And, of course, we have forgotten - and I say this for my good friend, Kostas Gülekas - that we have a possibility in these years, where you will re-feel the people for the necessary expenses, which have not been in the construction sector, because the Agarines have been surprised for us over the last thousand years. That's what's been going on for the last thousand years, so there's no surprise. So I would say this: Costa, in 377 BC. The Hellenic Republic voted for the thousands of two hundred - a thousand two hundred, says the resolution - the richest gangbangers. The Hellenic Republic divided them into twenty gangs of the sixty people each and paid the "purpose gangs" of the twenty gangs in 377 BC. The one for the three, the one for the frying, the forging, the forging. Do it again! Put in an emergency contribution for the "gangs richest." Suggest it! Therefore, since we have this situation, where we are waiting with some awe of Waterlo, because we have already suffered from Berezina, I would say that we have even one possibility to invoke: "Sir, the Powers, reinstated the Government in the first good", "Sir, the Powers, reinstated the Government in a similar way, from which we come here". I will say it in the name of the universality and our Muslim sisters "changing abbar", the god will give, reinstate to the first good, reinstate these rulers here in a similar way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u35	However, Mr Zurari, you too had time tolerance, like all colleagues. Mr Constantine Güulekas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I was telling my friend Mr Zurari that I never believed after so many years in this Step that the word 'a gangster' would be heard. I would also like to say to Mr Zourri, who has proposed to the enthusiastic Greeks that this thought really exists. It has been proposed by many in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to create a national defence fund. It's a very serious proposal. I would also like to say that there are entrepreneurs, such as the Emphietzoglou Prodrogue which, as I read recently, has set up a association to strengthen the fleet. There are similar initiatives from elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to come to our attention a little, this is indeed the most complex and difficult budget. Since World War II, in such unprecedented conditions of recession, it has never been called upon to draw up such a budget. However, since I have listened to many colleagues, and almost all the previous speakers have referred to the figures in the budget, let me confine myself to the subject of the committee to which I have the responsibility of chairing the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, in other words the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security. This is not because of institutional status - and indeed the relevant ministers, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for National Defence, have spoken - but because I consider it my duty, my duty, to speak about the other crisis that we are going through at the same time as the battle we are fighting for our health, for the crisis with Turkey, which is an unprecedented crisis in the course and intensity. Since 1974, Greece has never faced such a great crisis and tension. I am not going to talk about Turkish provocation but about Turkish aggression, because that is what our country is facing. If one excludes the Imias, where we lost our three young men at the pantheon of our heroes, since 1974 we have not been faced with such a major crisis. And I would also add that the question is not what others are doing for us, but what we and what our state are doing. I say that, because a success will be a success for Greece. Of course the government is responsible, and above all Mr Mitsotakis, the current Prime Minister, for the handling and decision-making. However, success will have national dimensions, as will one, the non-genus, failure would be a huge damage that we will all suffer. That is why I am talking about Turkish aggression and the way in which we tried and try to deal with it. Just last week, a Council, the summit in the European Union, ended. And we have actually seen that some states in the European Union have shown that, unfortunately, because of their behaviour, the political stature of the European building has much less bait than the one the creators of the great European family would like. Once again Europe has reacted timidly and reluctantly to an open challenge and has demonstrated that ultimately the political, military and economic interests of some countries are beyond the common values of the European construction. For how else can anyone characterise the Europe that reacted to a country that threatens peace and security in the region and plays a destabilising role in the wider region? See what he did in Libya, what he did in Iraq, what he did in Syria, what he did to the Caucasus! And not only that, but it is traded with jihadists and uses as a refugee tool to provide financial benefits to it. And, of course, this Turkey - a candidate for membership of the European Union - is threatening an open state - a Member State threatens openly two Member States - members of the Union, Cyprus and Greece, and even Greece with a threat of war if it exercises its inalienable right, which is to extend its territorial waters from six to twelve nautical miles, which is based not only on International Law and the Law of the Sea, but here, because we are talking about the Union, it is also part of the European acquis. However, it is not Europe's attitude, as I have said. It is our attitude to all of this. Whatever happens, we must be ready to deal with the situation, because we are the direct beneficiaries of Turkish aggression. So let us see what Greece is doing, what the current government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is doing in this direction. Greece is moving and, in fact, actively in three axes, in the political, diplomatic and operational military. Our country has been disembodied in a marathon of contacts and information. It goes on to continue to tighten relations with traditional allies, such as the United States of America, with which our relations have been at the best level in recent decades. The same goes for France. However, we are tightening up bilateral relations, which is a new foreign policy area. There is particular emphasis on bilateral relations, the growing of bilateral relations, which we have seen produce results. We also saw results in the recent visit of Prime Minister and Foreign Minister and Minister of National Defence to the United Arab Emirates, where it was first signed after World War II from our country, a strategic partnership agreement and an agreement on defence and foreign policy with the United Arab Emirates. It is a very important agreement and you will see it, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Parliament. We do the same with other states. We went ahead and closed the disputes with Italy for decades. We have defined the maritime zones. We partially demarcated the EEZ with Egypt and continue. I was at the recent meeting with the President of Parliament and with the Egyptian President Mr Sisi, who told us there that we are moving in the next steps and we want excellent relations with Greece. That is what we are seeking, and that is what we will do. I think all of this really shows that there is a continuous, as I described it, marathon. But our committee, in the context of parliamentary diplomacy, in a letter sent to all the chairmen of the respective foreign and defence committees, to all parliaments in Europe, the European Union, NATO, to members of the Security Council, permanently and non-attached, has informed and denounced Turkish aggression. And we continue with teleconferencing with the chairmen of various committees and inform the parliaments. So that is what happens all the time, precisely so that we can deal with Turkish aggression as a country. We are working on peace, and that is the message it sends Greece. Greece is working for peace. It is a security and peace stabilising factor in the region, but, on the other hand, it must fortify, secure this peace and prepare for any possibility. We're not in danger. We are, however, saying that, at the moment we are living, neither naive nor risk to our national issues. That is why you see that, in addition to foreign policy moves, there are many very serious moves - not with splendid expressions, but as must be done - in the last year and a half in the area of defence. We're on our way to the Rafale Fighting Air Force Market. We are moving on to the market for new helicopters with special anti-corruption capabilities for the Romeo helicopters. We move to the market of new wells and upgrade the four MEKO wells. We buy new anti-aircraft systems, new directed missiles, new heavy torpedoes. I am sorry to say this because at the time when the Greek people need money to face the crisis, health and economic, Greece is forced to spend money on cannons and tanks. But it is the position of Greece that dictates this very attitude, because we are between the burrow and the bay, and we will not be forgiven by any oligarchy. I'm sorry it was heard at some point at the National Representation by some colleagues: "You're not bored, brother! Let's take a chance with the Turks. What will happen?’ What if it doesn't? What are we going to say to the next generations? Are we going to say that we were naive and didn't understand what was going on? In any case, there is a huge effort in the defence sector, due to the rapid design, planning and execution of the General Staff and the National Defence General Staff, the OHIM. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that all this is not self-evident. It is not self-evident that since February they have been locked up, the borders have been sealed. No, it's not self-evident! They are the men and women of the Armed Forces who give titanic efforts there at the border, at sea and on land, so that they can secure our peace. We owe them our gratitude, and this is where these things must be heard. We must send the message everywhere, from the last soldier and the last police officer, to the leadership, the Chiefs of Staff, the Chief of Police, the Fire Department and the Port Authority, the Chief of HNDGS General Florus and tell them that we thank them for what they are doing, because if we live safely, it is not - I repeat - self-evident. It's thanks to the superhuman efforts...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Güleka, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing the Vice-Presidents in particular - I do not know what you will vote against and what you will vote against. It is a democratic right for everyone to choose. Alas, of course, if it were different! But all I would like to say is that for the first time this year, expenditure on defence has increased 63%. Expenditure has increased by EUR 2 billion to deal with the risk from the East. For this reason, at least the expenditure on defence would call on the National Representation to vote on them, not for anything else, but for Greece to respond unitedly to this risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u39	Mr Giannis Ragousis will now be given the floor from SYRIZA and then, as I said, the parliamentary representative from Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, now after so many days of Parliament's sittings with more than two hundred speeches that have taken place, I think it would be totally foolish to say that it is in the mood to repeat with arguments that have already been heard from us on the first day, from all the parties and obviously from the government that said its own views. So I, in fact, want two or three words. The first is that I really do not remember how many times in the past, in my opinion, this far-reaching distance between government political speech and society has been presented. In fact, I think it may be one of the most extreme cases that has been observed these days. Inside the Chamber - it could not be done differently - who gave the tone for what I'm saying? Obviously not so much the Members of the House as the Government itself and, above all, the Minister of Finance himself. I think that the political government was stigmatized these days from the fact that Mr Stagioras came to the National Representation with a point of view completely inconsistent with social and economic reality. Just to substantiate what I am saying, I will mention that in this very dystopic year of 2020 the recession, which has reached 10% - and it is certain that the next period will also go beyond that, because when it was estimated that 10.5% of the quarantine had not been calculated - the Minister of Government of Mr Mitsotakis came here and said in his speech that in September 2020 unemployment is less than that of September 2019 and by 2.7 points less than in September 2018. In other words, he came here and said that at a time when the economy collapses, because 10% is equal to a collapse. 10% recession equals EUR 18-20 billion lost by the economy, i.e. there were last year and there are not this year. Well, it is not possible - and it is scientifically possible - to say that in these circumstances there is an increase. And yet, that was claimed by the Minister for Finance of the Government. I was going to tell you honestly that when I listened to Mr Stakoura the day before yesterday, I was saying something reminds me. So I raised because something really reminded me of it, and I found out why it reminded me of something and what it was. So it reminded me of the speech made by the predecessor of the country's Minister of Finance, Mr. Alossukoufis in 2008 before the economic crisis broke out before bankruptcy broke out. If you see the speech Haloskouf in December 2008 and read the speech Stakoura in 2020, you will find great similarities. There is, however, one point. Haloskoufis, when he said those nice things before this tragedy broke out for the Greek people with the three Memorandums, had not yet broken out. The huge financial problem of the country that has been involved in bankruptcy and in the memoranda has not yet come to the surface, and we now know that. Although there is a tolerance today, I do not want to waste time and read it out. I will give it to the Minutes, so that any fellow is interested in seeing the full correlation between the two speeches. That's all in the Chamber. Outside the Chamber, a tragedy for society, for Greeks and Greek women, for health and economics, as well as for the social level. We have an extension of quarantine at a time when I no longer know whether there are some of the questions that, even today, may not continue to concern us. What do I mean in particular? Firstly, there is no longer a question whether what the Greek people are living in is entirely burdensome. Furthermore, in my opinion - and this is my second claim - there is no question 'where is that due'? There is not - to be more specific - a question of whether they are just objective and sanitary reasons for this tragedy that the Greek people live in or are subjective political reasons. And why isn't that question? Because already, even if one says that it disagrees with our claims, with our own evidence and with our arguments, there are statements. There are statements from the Communism itself, from the government itself. Mr Varzopoulou said: 'We opened up to the extent that we opened this summer'. Mr Georgiadis, these two well-known words: 'We went out'. Districtlors, mayors. But above all, what did Prime Minister Mitsotakis, who said a few days ago at the interview he gave at the ALPHA TV station, Mr. Srotter? He said, and I read his words, "We knew he would come back..." - means the coronary - "but somewhere I think we were all back from the success of the first wave." Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the country, as we know, is neither a columnist nor a journalist nor a MP nor even - I would say - a minister. The Prime Minister of the country is the head of the executive. These words, when they come out of the Prime Minister's mouth, the first one you can say is 'all right, good, confess, said what is real and honest'. But that has consequences. When the Prime Minister acknowledges this month in November that we were calm and did not deal with the second wave, then automatically tells the Greek and Greeks the answer to the question he has: 'Hey, why am I paying all this? Is it only the coronary?’ Oh, no. Following this statement by Mr Mitsotakis, he has been confessed by the Greek Prime Minister himself and his Government to co-responsibility, co-responsibility and co-responsibility for this tragedy that the Greek people live in. If Mr Mitsotakis and his Government had not been reassured, they would not have been these dramatic results for the Greek people, for the health and economic level and for the social level. So there is no longer any question, ladies and gentlemen, whether what the Greek people are living for is dramatic or whether it is responsible - and I am grateful - for the government to the extent that it corresponds to what the Greek people are living for because they have responded. And, of course, nothing in politics - and you know it and we all know it very well - is not without result, it is without consequences. What is the consequence in this case? The consequence is basically one, that at present in the country there is a government of reduced social and national confidence. And the worst of that, though, ladies and gentlemen, is that the country now has a government of reduced national and social confidence, while the difficult ones are ahead of it. Because for Greek society and for Greece, as a country and as a country, the difficult and health-care crisis with the coronary and economic level with the recession, unemployment, the closure of shops, the destruction of the productive fabric of our country, but also in our national issues, such as the Greek Turkish crisis, which is under way, all these difficulties, for all these major fields, are at the front and, unfortunately, the Greek people are now called upon to live the management of all these things in the acidification process, the intensification we will be aware of the next time in the hands of a Prime Minister and a government that has confessed to their cohesiveness for all the dramas that are happening and at the same time, they have become a government and Prime Minister of reduced confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u41	Now Mr. Gregoriadis will take the floor. There are four colleagues left who will certainly speak. I already told them. It's Mr. Amanatidis, Mrs. Kasimatis, Mr. Salmas and Mr. Janakopoulos. Then we shall start again on the second part of the parliament. Mr. Gregoriadis, in order not to call you twice, do you now want to use your dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u42	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u43	Good. Mr Georgiadis therefore also has the floor as a Parliamentary representative of Mera25. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, for everything that you give me in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, as you certainly cannot remember, last year - in fact, on the 17th of that month - speaking again as a representative of Mera25 and speaking again and then of the annual budget submitted by your government at that time, I mentioned the famous saying of French Prime Minister during the Interim War of Reymon Poancare, who had said during a statement, in fact, that there are three types of lies: genuine lies, deceit and budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, if, as we fear - and with us and a very large part of the Greek people are afraid - you carry out your threat and vote here later tonight, tonight, the budget you have prepared for 2021, you will really have succeeded in the incomprehensible, to destroy the said saying, which it has endured - to mark - over a century and to place in its place a completely new one, which all the students of the economic universities of the world must henceforth be taught. This new phrase, whose father - self-righteously, of course - must be seen today as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis - will be the following: In this life there are four types of lies, genuinely, the treaty, the budgets and the budgets of the Government of New Democracy for 2021. You will tell me: Well, what has our Prime Minister now added to be seen as a new saying? The budgets were little - they have always been written lies. I answer directly: Yes, but up to a limit. In this letter of request for gifts and a list of wishes, which could not be fulfilled even if the only work of God was the support of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who certainly should not be our Parliament, the House of Greeks, but Santa Claus himself, as he alone could carry out the miracle of increasing your tax revenue by about 3.6 billion this year, almost 4 billion this year compared to last year. They were enriched, it seems, by the Greeks the time they spent and have a tax capacity regenerated. Honestly, I ask you: are you kidding the Greek people only or have you finally come from a habit of mocking yourself? Let's start over. Last March you had budgeted the recession that would occur because of the pandemic by the Minister himself, Mr Staikoura, at zero. He had said zero here and mocked Mr. Varoufakis from here at the same time as he said it would be 10%, maybe more than 10%. So you had a budget in zero. You reassessed it, thankfully, at 4% to 4.5% at the beginning of the summer. Remember what exactly summer? I'll remind you. That summer, when you fully opened tourism and would bring brave revenue to home at the same time. Do you know which tourism? Tourism that you opened with random sample tests, which only one of the seventy people who wanted to visit our country, and which eventually brought us much less of the medical expenses that you loaded in your last year's budget, as it finally brought out the pandemic outside of every control and now see what that choice entails, both in human lives and in financial costs. After having reassessed for yourself just before half-time at 4% by 4.5%, when it has failed miserably and economically and healthfully to open up tourism, you have reassessed it at 8.2%. Go away, alas, you also needed a fourth reassessment, your current - let us hope for the last - which appreciates this one, let me say, a recession now of 10.5% for 2020. I cannot imagine shocking you, then, after so many failures and reassessments in your prediction - the recession, I mean - now that we are telling you that unfortunately the actual recession for 2020 will certainly be much greater - and from 10% we mean - somewhere between 12% and 15%. If your absolute inability to predict the recession for the year that has been added your estimate of growth in the coming year, an estimate of the order of 4.8% against the re-estimation of you of the same people for growth allegedly 7.5%, who naturally also disproved, as well as all your abovementioned forecasts for the 2020 recession and the stones now know that any chance of returning to growth for our country requires a global victory against the pandemic before summer, so as to open and operate the entire heavy industry of our country called tourism, it is easy to understand how lame and wishful it is to predict such growth before you can even see if tourism is allowed worldwide during the summer of 2021 and how many fellow humans will have after an entire year of pandemic yet the economic potential to become tourists. It is easy to conclude that the growth rates that may exist will certainly move well, well below 4% of your latest reassessment. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, following the information I have just given you, it is not really a question of wondering about the assessment of your Government, the New Democracy, of the deficit in relation to the National Gross Product of 2021, which reminds you that you had only two months ago estimated it to 1.1%, that you finally reassessed it, the same government we had two months ago, re-estimated it today by climbing it up to 3.88% of our National Gross Product. We don't want to mistreat you, ladies Ministers and MPs, but we've heard from you. During the course of the year you will certainly have to re-evaluate - you do nothing more, you will tell me, for so many months now - quite upwards, perhaps even twice as much as that. What, though, is the result of so many miscalculations and forecasts? The answer is clearly described within your own budget, because your budget takes as a working scenario the smoothing of absolute and returning to our pre-Koron regularity for our economy and society in 2021 and at the latest, in order to prevent our tourism, until the middle of the year. Can I tell you something? Honestly, I wish! I wish - with all our soul - that the situation be completely normalised and that the normality of our economy and our society restored in 2021. But, seriously, can one here, in fact, consider a government anywhere in the world, not Greece, which dares to guarantee this prediction that everything will have been done properly by May? But it's funny. Your budget - I am sorry - but that is exactly what it is doing, and that is why I said to you beginning with my speech a moment ago that it could very well be a letter to Santa Claus. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, what's the harm with Santa? That in a hard way we all learn, somewhere around our five years, that Santa Claus unfortunately doesn't exist. Let us now move on to the costs of dealing with the pandemic in 2021, which, according to your budget, will reach five and a half billion euros, of which two and a half billion, a little less than half, will concern the planned disbursements and the other three billion euros - and I would like to say that, in your explanatory statement, I read as a pillow to be used if necessary. This wording, which exists, as I said in the explanatory statement, clearly indicates that the Mitsotakis Government still does not consider the immediate strengthening of our national health system to be necessary for the time being. What time? At a time when our intensive efforts have not yet been enough, in at least half, in northern Greece, when our doctors and sanitaries have been so few - and have remained under your responsibility so few, very few - no longer have any time to sleep and to rest, while the whole system is clearly on the brink of total collapse, if it has not already started to collapse, in numbers - attention - dead, intact and so on, do not expect a party like Mera25 to refer to cheap impressions and political gains. You know what to expect? But wait for us to stop screaming at every opportunity that with EUR 1.8 billion, which you hold in the drawer for later, we can now create a public network of mass tests and strengthen our national health system with permanent staff at last. It is obvious that your Government, in belief in the doctrine of "the minded children...", you know, is about to make the same childish mistake for a second time. You keep three billion in the fund on the basis of using them later, if they need to, you know why? Why refuse to see that they already need eleven months. You can't see it, so you keep it. When in a few months' time you run back behind the pandemic just as you are now running behind the economy, you will finally understand that they had to put that money away from now on in the simulation of all subsidiary doctors and health care and mass testing, but it will be too late again. It is, therefore, clear to us, that you are showing a rare incompetence in the budget both in the course of the economy and in the course of the pandemic. On the other hand, do you know what we think? We believe that there is one area of the budget that you can certainly do excellently. We believe that you will be able to budget, with excellent accuracy, for the year 2021, how many young people more than last year will be able to arrest completely unreasonable. You know how? You know. First, you get an order for banning meetings of more than four people and thus forbid them - with a two-horn of two birds! - and the gatherings of a complaint, for example, on your unacceptable work bills, since you have, in the meantime, falsely claimed that the high health committee allegedly bans concentrations, for which the Sanctions Committee has never placed it, I can assure you. We have seen it by requesting its correspondence with the Council of State. So you get an order that is allowed to meet outdoors for up to four persons, immediately after you are set up and start catching random people who walk lonelyly or two - two on the road. Then you wait so long that five to six such lonely people or two - three couples, if you prefer, which of course are not related in any way, but they don't even know each other, and then all of a sudden, that's what I want, the head of there found cops calls them all arbitrarily a group, and that's how these people are converted into an illegal gang that of course needs immediate provocation and why not even arrest. You know where I'm talking. It just happened last week. Listen, it could all be that I told you to be just a nice fat-cut joke if this was not actually a huge risk to our democracy. This risk appeared with the 'good morning' of your government, when you considered that after ten years of monuments, the first medicine that you needed - urgently and that is why you offered it with your first bill - was the abolition of university asylum, a risk that continued with the ridiculous attempts at collapsing with the Chief of Parliamentary Group, simply because he insisted on moving from home to Parliament and from Parliament, so he collapsed when we came here to discuss the lifting of his immunity, by Giannis Varoufakis. This risk reached a peak with the ban on mergers, the blockade of seven MPs to walk freely on Greek territory, the beating of three MPs from another parliamentary group, the illegal production and detention of lawyers - even at a time of duty - as well as numerous trade unionists, regional consultants, municipal councillors, dissenting students and ordinary people. This danger showed his abominable face, just last week, using the speech of the Citizen's Minister himself, Mr Chrysochide, when he said - I read about no misunderstandings - 'Thousands of spoiled people are left, which I mentioned, and those who represent an euphoric seller, in the past, of hypersensitivity rights. I say this to them again: the logic comes back, democracy comes back, the immunity of children with molotovs and some of the namelines does not exist. The law is one, legality is one. Some 'good' society in Athens is not excluded. Those who shout are not excluded. That requires the law. This is democracy.’ Look, this style, this wording, this incoherently formulated ideological - I am sorry for the expression - 'acharma' is, in my opinion, the very person of fascism, which threatens us today. I want to be clear here. I am not saying in any way that Mr Chrysochoidis is a fascist. I say that I hope that he too, on a day of great tension in the streets and in his ministry, has unfortunately been offended, and that he must apologise to the Left as a whole and state very clearly that he did not mean everything he said in this statement. Before a Citizen's Minister dares make such a statement, he should at least have captured the serial moral autonician in murders and the official chief of the crime organization Golden Dawn, already condemned by Greek justice and released completely free, "Anemello" and - with the forgiveness of the expression - "good" within the territory and even much worse away from and outside the territory, Christos Papapas. I said it's a joke, sir. So the Minister would much better support his words, that the law in Greece is now one and legality is one. When you catch Mr. Pappa, maybe we'll get closer there. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, these small, slippery steps towards the deflection that you allow to take under your nose are a great risk, not only to us left-wing people but to all people who consider this incomplete, used and oppressed democracy to be the greatest conquest of our civilisation. So, if you really want to protect her, you must stop them yourself, in every way, because - take care - as our recent political history has taught us, when - although - the non-genus - finally arrives at this terrible time of diversion, which is now the 'wild' of which you are now tolerated, perhaps with us, then you yourself will be arrested, as happened in the seven-year dictatorship of the colonists. I will close my speech on the budget, once again on artists and on all the people who work in arts. These people have been trained, for years now, to work impoverished, often in very bad conditions and always with a permanent daily professional risk: that their work can be over now, the next second. Most important of them often die poor and ungodly, the most important of them have never been interested in becoming at some point rich and famous. They always wanted to create art or even work in art. They are in a few words, ladies and gentlemen, artists and workers in culture learnt from very early to difficult, from young children. Often, the dominant ideology describes them as supposedly “negligent hobbyists”, but, believe me, it is not like that. Every six months, at the latest, these people are unemployed, every six months at the latest, and then, when they find it, in the years of our memorials, a producer, forced by his tolerance, proposes only "black money". "Take it or have it" tells them. And yes, sometimes, they do. Do you know why? Because they just have to keep surviving. And then there appears, by magic, a Minister who lives comfortably, and equally comfortable, unfoundedly told them, blames them for being so many years invisible to our state, because they have chosen to move in the field of 'black labour' and that is why our good state - although very much would want it, has no other priority - can't find a way to help them. These, meanwhile, artists and workers in the arts, having a glimpse of unemployment even many years before the pandemic, even before the memorials, are able to survive at all times, self-evident and almost self-evident at the same time as the passion of their creation and report. For ten months then, you have known very well that these people have no income anymore, nor even the possibility of almost any artistic creation. Stocks and aids from relatives and friends have now been depraved. They ask the government for five very specific things. I'll repeat it quickly, because it's worth it. First, they request that they join the special purpose compensation and those who did not have the time to register in the artists' register but fulfil the other formal requirements. Secondly, with regard to the special purpose allowance of EUR 800 in category L1, they are asking that there should be no end date for registration, unless the 20th of October that you set up, but the 15th was in force and a world flew out. Thirdly, they request an automatic extension and immediate disbursement of the allowance for the months November and December at least, and then the rest of the period in which the cultural areas will remain closed. Fourthly, those who are compensated through a register are asking to be beneficiaries and to reduce rents, as is the case with all job suspensions. Fifthly, they call for the suspension of late payment of tax debts, banks, TEKOs, all types of telephone connections, municipal fees, as well as, of course, a ban on power and elevations. You found out who didn't have her power to pay for days ago. But do you know what they are asking for above all, above all five requests, with a tenacity, months, and is not satisfied? Do you know what it is? They are merely asking you to accept them, their trade unions, namely, to accept the three co-presidents responsible for the matter, ministries, culture, finance and labour. Why? To discuss with you and suggest very specific ways that have already been considered for so many months, to help workers in culture survive. Listen, many branches were tested last year by the pandemic. Everyone, however, has worked even for a short time, and the workers in them have worked at short intervals, even at short intervals. The workers in our culture are the only ones who have never worked, as the announced activity of the Ministry of Culture, the famous "All Greece a Culture", already extremely inadequate by its nature and its capture, in practice, almost disappeared, immediately after its beginning, from the summer feast of the pandemic, which forced mayors and districters to ban most of the events. So as you budget it in a way, let me say, your merciful budget - a letter to Santa Claus for 2021 - should something really do for these people, starting -? - from starting to talk to them. Otherwise, even the Utian but also the scandalous 0.2% of GDP, which you predict for culture - and in fact what you expect is 0.1%, because at least half of it will go to sport, we are, of course, the second, after sport, in this country - even this trivial and universal fraction of the budget, which you budget for arts and culture, will be lost in 2021, if you do not see them and do nothing now. Why? Because there will be no more people in 2021 dealing with arts and culture in this place. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Until the Step is ready, I will say that four Members will follow the position of four Members of Parliament as follows: Mr Amanatidis, Mrs Kasimatis, Mr Salma and Mr Janakopoulou, and that is where the list of Members is closed. Then - I say it so that they know it from now - Parliamentary representatives will be given the floor, in opposite order, that is to say from the smaller to the larger parties, except Mr Gregoriadis, who has taken his second language, so that all Parliamentary representatives will be seconded for six minutes. And now we are ready to invite the New Democracy MP, George Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the tolerance with which the Bureau started this morning and will include me, I appreciate, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u47	Obviously this tolerance applies to everyone, in the context of logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Ministers, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget has, of course, been drawn up and also tabled at a time when societies, health systems and economies are being tested by the most serious health crisis. To find a corresponding, we will have to go back to the end of World War I. I remind you of the Spanish flu. At the same time, we have experienced the greatest economic crisis since World War II. The pandemic found Greece heavily taken by a nearly ten years of recession. However, the Greek Government has shown flexibility and great adaptability. We lived it in the previous space. The priorities for economic policy have been considerably differentiated and a budgetly expansion policy has been pursued in order to strengthen the National Health System with staff and equipment of EUR 800 million - in 2020, I would remind you - to strengthen the affected, while trying to provide liquidity to businesses, to support the world of employment, to strengthen the unemployed and the seasonal workers and to help sectors that have been severely affected by the health crisis, such as tourism, focus, culture, and the primary sector. We have heard from the ministers last few days that the government has already made funds totalling EUR 31.5 billion and is allocated to sixty two categories of intervention. Why? To support businesses, workers, professionals, unemployed and those affected by the pandemic, namely to support the world of work and society with EUR 23.9 billion in 2020. They've heard again. It's okay, let's hear them again. There are all 7.6 billion provided for in the budget to meet needs in the new year. At the same time, an amount of around EUR 3 billion is also anticipated. There has been a reference to this earlier. But there's been a negative report. I'm going to make a positive reference to this. There is also a special reserve which will be used not if and whenever it is to be. And this is very important to cover general government expenditure, including, of course, health care expenditure. At the same time, our country is facing geopolitical challenges. We have forgotten this: increased flows of migrants, which, as far as we can keep them and major natural disasters, can be retained. In this context, therefore, this is the field in which this budget is under way. And, of course, in this liquid environment, the budget that aims, firstly, to overcome the crisis with the economy in operation and society standing up. We've heard that many times. Sets the foundations for rapid recovery after the end of the pandemic, with high, sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. Of course, even in normal periods of complete normality, as we could say, how much more now, the drafting of the new budget poses risks of incorrect forecasts because it is an estimate of future revenue and expenditure. The additionality of this budget, however, is that the pandemic conditions make the predictions even more precarious. Before criticising, we must all realise that we are heading into uncharted waters and that we are forced to operate on a fully intensified logic of'seeing and doing', of course, without being a national peculiarity. It's something that's true in all countries. In the debate, which took place in the last few days, I heard criticism from the opposition about changing the forecasts in the draft budget. Indeed, there is a difference between the final draft which has been introduced for discussion and which we are discussing. Yes, the forecast for the 2020 recession is now 10.5% compared to 8.2%, the recovery of 4.8% compared with 7.5%. But why would criticism be so easy? Shouldn't we be aware of what environment we're moving in? So the criticism of the opposition is lame. This is because last month, as the State Budget Office confirmed in the House, we have had two data. Firstly, in recent times a second wave of pandemic and the need, of course, to take restrictive measures. We also had a downward revision of the level of GDP by the Greek Statistical Authority for the period 2015-2018. Furthermore, the opposition does not intentionally state that the government has accordingly changed the support measures of society between a draft and a draft budget. More specifically, while we had in the preliminary draft EUR 2.7 billion of economic support measures in 2021, this amount in this draft budget was 7.5%. I mention this because the selective ticking of numbers at this juncture does not serve the truth but little political purposes. So what are the characteristics of the budget for 2021? Is he a developmentist? Yeah. The pandemic has interrupted the upward course that the Greek economy had started to enter since the second half of 2019 with the application of a different mix of economic policy. Is the budget pro-investor? The answer here is positive. But not because a majority MEP calls it, but for four reasons. Firstly, it incorporates tax reductions and insurance contributions. Secondly, as in 2020, there is not even an additional tax on households and businesses. Thirdly, it maintains in force the permanent reductions in taxes and social security contributions that preceded them. Fourthly, it contains initiatives to strengthen liquidity in the real economy. I would remind you that in the health crisis liquidity tools have been created in the real economy. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] To question whether he is socially fair, the answer is: yes. As an example, I mention the increase in the costs of the OPECA. Of course, the costs of operating the OPEKA are directed at society. In closing down slowly and coming from the Kosani prefecture, I could not ask a further question. Is the 2021 budget and the environmental budget? I would call it green, let me have the term. I would like to stress the special focus of the government on degreasing, with brave backward measures for local communities on the basis of a programme already drawn up. In particular, I am talking about a total amount of EUR 5 billion with leverage, which will be financed in implementation of the master plan in western Macedonia and Megalopolis, which was also presented by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. Here, let me stress something. I identify the need for joint pledging and coexistence of the central ministries with the RIS with the local societies that form the substrate in which all initiatives will be developed. A request for a second point concerning western Macedonia, since the Deputy Minister of Finance himself is present. Minister, if you have not already signed the ministerial decision - probably it has not been signed - I would ask the beneficiaries of the heating allowance to be added to the district heating consumers. It will be another social action of our government towards the region. The pandemic for our region is equivalent to the phase of defoliation. I know the figures. Allow me to say that it will only be necessary to provide for the addition of the word 'electricity' to the beneficiaries, such as wood, pelt and oil. There will be no need to change the amounts that have been planned, since these are affected, as we know, by the weather. Ladies and gentlemen, with these thoughts and proposals of a local nature, let me say that I am convinced that this budget is realistic. That is why I am voting for him. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u49	Mrs Cassimatis, Member of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, for seven minutes, has a small tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget debate is taking place, in fact, since a terrible year for the world and, of course, for Greece, because of the pandemic of the new krone. 2020 was annus horribilis from whatever side you see. But COVID -19 wasn't the only evil that found our country. For Greeks and Greeks - and anyone else who lives - this is not only the time but also the terrible administration of the New Democracy, gentlemen, because as governors you have not shown any wisdom or justice in dealing with pandemic and in managing the resources for the recovery of its financial consequences. And how could you, since your acronym-liberal ideology and ideology doesn't allow you to see the boundaries of your evangelizing system, even though the pandemic raised them in the most convincing way? The result is, today we are talking about, the ESS, which was held up in the middle of memoranda by SYRIZA and whoever guaranteed the people's access again to the National Health System, to collapse and remain standing only thanks to the self-sacrifice of health personnel. Three and a half thousand people have died, three thousand in November. Families have been plunged into mourning. Others are hospitalized or live and work with the fear of disease. The economy is in a deep recession. We're in second lockdown. Small and medium-sized businessmen kill themselves from debts. The market and the retail trade are emitting 'SOS'. The schools are closed and the children - some children who have the ability, not all - are teletrained until they get back to their dense classes. You did not want to spend, invest in structures such as health and education, which are costs that increase public consumption and have a direct impact on GDP. They're increasing it evenly. You did not want to do this expenditure which will have two benefits, since it would mitigate the second wave of economic effects and the very evolution of the diaspora. Of course, these 'faults' achieve in your own country the strategic objectives of the major restructuring of capitalist relations which are carried out in a global dimension in favour of big capital and, of course, at the expense of the people and at the expense of democracy. It is now visible to all Greeks that you are unconscious of the situation, but not because you are simply careless or uncomfortable or blunt. Oh, no! You are representatives of a ruling class that has nothing to do with the place, the people and the interests of this people. You have the characteristics of a social layer that is cut off from society and about material practices and expectations and attitudes. Move to the pedal. And the symptoms of sushidism of the past months and days are numerous, because this is your truth, who you are, who you are, who you are, who you are, who you really are and who you are and who you are not, as much as you control and exercise in the media or censorship. The Prime Minister - who was also a candidate in Piraeus II, and unfortunately the result of the elections in Piraeus II has made the New Democracy a little avenger against this historic region, and that is why it will be good to stop these moods - relax, making "motocross" in Parnitha, while a hundred people die every day. The Mayor of Athens makes the pandemic PNPs an opportunity to fly 2m euros for the "Great Walk". Another vice mayor of Baden-Baden dreams of his Ashton Martin. The other vice mayor sees communists as cockroaches and rodents. Another journalist thinks that because the Magdal Bridge is from Perama or Keracini is exceptionally well-paid. Mars Poutsalte reads "e-class" in Google and considers that the Greeks are looking to buy a car "Mercedes e-class", while every Greek family is simply struggling to enter the digital classes, although it has the logistics infrastructure. And you, Mr. Papadimitriou, must not be complaining. Along with Mr. Portasalte, you were saying to break down public hospitals and now you have placed a New Democracy Secretary General on the budget of 2021, who is the pretext of a new memorandum, which you know very well, because you yourself were a fanatical supporter of the first memorandum, even the wrong financial factors of the IMF. You defended them then. Then something else. I think this contempt, even in symbolism, shows something about this government. It came to finish what the social forces and the political forces themselves started in 2010 to support you. You have envyed the glory of market forces that provide you with many services. You do not support the small and medium-sized enterprises, not as a result - as we see it - but as a project resulting from the Pissaridis report. Above all, I would say that, from elsewhere, I do not know anywhere in the world how to carry out such a coherent neoliberal plan, perhaps apart from Brazil in Bolsonarro, and it condenses precisely this practice of demolition. The main shape of the report, which is your budget brother, is that, in fact, you are depleting and crushing already lost resources and rights for the social state and for the employed work. You are talking about an idea of a state of accumulation and concentration of large few businesses, which will create economies of scale. That means - which you do not say, but it means - that the remaining middles are crushed and proletariatised. It will result from the pressure and extermination of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the profession, the professions and the self-employed, with all that that means to the nature of this country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A voice in the Pissaridis report that says nothing about how the product is produced, while the country has a particularly productive deficit. Nothing in relation to the country's productive structures and its comparative advantages does not respond, it does not affect. And it ties up with the law yours to the bankruptcy officer a few days ago. It's all a package, your plan, your strategy. And, of course, we must not forget the reductions in the insurance contributions that you bring, which the insurance funds are dying of, lead to the collapse of, in order to resort to the private sector, to the creation of new insurance products which will once again explode, which the people will save again and go by saying. No, you're not incompetent, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. You are capable of everything, as long as you remain pleasing to your superiors, making the country exist. And, of course, this is reflected in the results of foreign policy. Foreign factor game our nation, as proved at the last summit with the known results. The Greek nation, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, gives a struggle for existence. In the two hundred years since the Revolution Greece has been at a time of unprecedented geopolitical and geo-economic tension at many levels and with the intentions of the eastern neighbour, who are completely expansionary. That's the box. Cyprus can't be left alone. This is a criticism to your Government and you know it comes from Cyprus as well. It's not just us here. Greece must not only react to the attack it is taking - and it does not do so - it must act firmly and highlight the Turkish problem on all issues, on all international organisations. All the country's political and diplomatic chapter must turn to this issue. It is both a national issue and a humanitarian issue. It is the country's contribution to the region and to the world to halt barbarism. And that must be the content of a national policy, if we want to leave the declarations and go to the essence of the issues. But there is no national strategy in the country. Of course, how can there be a national strategy, when even within the government is there a division and two lines? And that's well known. In order to cope with all of this, the political class of the country and respond to the government must be aware of this country, this history, of this culture. It presupposes that he is conscious of the place and the time rather than doing press actions to pass laws on lending antiquities for a century abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u51	Finish in a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u52	In a minute, Mr President. Thank you. This shows that you are not aware of history, of the risks, but also of what culture means for a country like Greece. Because when we hear from the programme statements by the Minister of Culture about rebranding Greek culture, one understands where you are and where you are standing. Because everyone should know that he is being promoted and regenerated by creators and not by technocrats, bureaucrats of the ministries. We enter the year we celebrate the two hundred years since the Revolution. The order of Makrigiannis, which said "these not for ten thousand heels do not accept leaving the country, which is why we fought for statues", you have taken it and done it waste, with what it symbolizes - you understand, I believe - as wicked citizens. We are voting against your budget, which is a budget and a draft politically wicked states, which certainly does not give rise to any good intentions for the historical and living continuity of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u54	You can't, Mr. Papadimitriou. Only if there was a personal matter, otherwise you can't. Only the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u55	Yes, but when my colleague says...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, for personal reasons he wants the floor. The SYRIZA spokesman was quoted three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u57	You take the microphone for a minute, after you understood it, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u58	It was personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u59	I can't do it. And I can't do it because it didn't happen to anyone. We must continue with Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, it was personally addressed to me that I have said something, which is a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u61	So, do you have any staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u62	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u63	Tell me what the staff is. Take the floor for a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u64	I would like to say to my dear colleague that it is a good thing, when we say and call someone at such a juncture, and you repeat things, which are completely false, that the debate you are talking about, and which has taken place a long time ago - three years ago, that is, - was about the issue of endosocomial infections. Greece, unfortunately, is a country suffering from this. We have about a thousand seven hundred victims, deaths due to intrasomal infections, most of them in intensive care units. At the conference of the infectious diseases that took place at that time and which I attended in close cooperation - and in a particular debate - it was said that the situation in our old hospitals is so heavy that we cannot cope with it unless we build new hospitals in their place. This debate we transferred to a journalistic work. And I do not allow you to be described in this way, in which you did so, that we - that is to say, here in the Chamber and my colleague at the radio station at the time - asked to close public hospitals. He's a liar. Repeat a lie, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u65	Let me give you a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u66	We shouldn't keep giving up, Mrs. Cassimatis. Give the comfort to Mr. Janakopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u67	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u68	What do you mean, Mrs. Cassimatis? You said what you said. You got an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u69	He said I was lying, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u70	Here, say in a minute what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u71	Mr Papadimitriou, I initially thought you took the floor to renounce the memorandum and the great success it brought to the country. You didn't do that. So that's what I've fallen into. As, of course, I think we've all heard your relative sound and know your views...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u72	You haven't heard. Apparently not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u73	...and aggression against public health, the system of national public health and the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u74	All right, Mrs. Cassimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u75	Please, Mr President, just a minute. ...and the way you place yourself in matters. You had to turn, come back, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u76	Let us not extend the matter now, Mrs Kasimatis. Mr Janakopoulos has the floor in order to complete the list of Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, thank you very much. I wonder whether the problem of hospital infections is limited to public hospitals or whether this is also about private hospitals. But it's probably the public's fault, so let's tear this down and keep the private, Mr. Papadimitriou, isn't it? Anyway... I have been listening for days, Members of the Com mittee, the Government, to rejoice, to celebrate, to admire, as they have been doing almost since the summer, for the very great successes of the government. I really wonder what exactly successes you're talking about. In the pandemic sector, we have an ERC literally on the verge of collapse. You falsely claim that you supported it with 786 million in a coronary period, whereas in reality the increase in state spending in hospitals, so far, lies, at around 200 million and brings us to the bottom of the OECD list. We are last, when the hospital staff have not been paid their newspapers for a year and a half in the large hospitals and six months in the youngest. And refuse to take the step of adopting SYRIZA's proposal here, the SYRIZA's amendment, to immediately pay the newspapers of doctors and nurses, whom you otherwise applaud. I'll tell you a story. Do you know what happened at Drama Hospital? They were at the edge of the collapse of people who needed to be hospitalized in intensive care units, dying in simple beds of pathological clinics, and the doctors had to take off for three months. Do you know when you refused to send doctors to Drama Hospital? Two days after Mr. Tsipras' visit. Is that the logic of the National Health System? So, only where inconceivable inadequacies, oligories, indifference, try to communicate to cover this inconceivable inconvenience you have created in the National Health System? This is a disgrace to you. It's a political shame! What successes? In the economy? An economy on the edge of the cliff? You dated March and said that while the whole of Europe will have a recession - you, Mr Stavoura, said so - we will meet at 0%. After two months you told us 4%. After three months you told us 8.5%. And today you come here and see 10.5%. So something you've done wrong. It's your responsibility if your prediction fell out. That proves it. Because when you anticipate 0% or 4% and end up in 10.5%, it means something didn't do well. Because it is not that you did not know that there would be a second wave of pandemic, that there would be a problem with tourism, that there would be a problem with lockdown. It's not like you didn't know all this. You have taken this into account and made these calculations. Unless you were just mocking people. There's that explanation too. You either fooled the world or something didn't do well. You have to accept one of the two. You cannot charge everything to the objective difficulty. When the whole of the European Union knew it would be at very high rates of recession, why did you come here and predict 0 and 2 and 3 and 4? You haven't explained it! You refused to increase expenditure while you know that in a time of crisis and a deep recession the only way, in order to limit the consequences, to limit the recession, is to increase social costs. In fact, you refused to increase them, in the context of a - supposedly - prudent fiscal policy, which leads to self-esteeming prophecy in what you are supposed to avoid. It leads to a collapse of GDP, a fall in public debt - it will reach 210% - and an undermining of the possibility of recovery of the Greek economy. Already, while you were talking about a V-type recovery, that is, in 2021 we will cover the 2020 losses, you have reached your prediction of 4.5%. And it'll be much less, sir. Stasura. You know that, too. The OECD, at the moment, makes provision for growth in 2021 to 0.9%. Do you know what that means? That it is precisely because of your strategic choice not to increase expenditure that you are actually driving the country precisely to what you are supposed to not want, that is, to the logic that led to the three Memorandums. Why are you doing this? Why don't you support small and medium-sized enterprises? Why don't you increase social costs? To create new conditions of accumulation in the Greek economy for the benefit of specific interests. That's exactly what's going on today and with the click away. What's the click away doing? Yesterday the Minister of Development admitted it himself. On the substance, it means the large business groups. Your entire policy has been doing just this, restructured the Greek economy for the benefit of certain interests, in order to create new conditions for the accumulation of capital and, in essence, create the conditions for the service of the interests you represent. It's not bad to say. The same and worse on the labour market. This is 'we are making the crisis an opportunity'. Deregulation, reduction of wages, crash of the working class. And that is strategic choice, neither inadequacy nor incompetence. It's a tough class choice. It is no coincidence, therefore, that Greece is currently third to the loss of income for employees, according to EUROSTAT data. It is precisely the logic, which you have been implementing since July 2019, that the reduction of wages and the deregulation of the labour market, the liquidation of labour acquired will act as a supposed investment incentive. This is the logic of the great promise of neoliberalism, which, of course, remains in the biennial unpaid: Squeeze the livelihood, tolerate the reduction of wages, to invest and then increase the pie and all to live happy and in terms of social well-being. This is the great lie, the political ideological lie you serve. And in this humanitarian disaster treaty, an orgy! - opacity, direct outbursts to companies that blow up like mushrooms. Millions of millions! And if you think that the totalitarian treaty in the media will prevent social processes, discontent, labor struggles, anger, if you have believed your own propaganda, that is your problem, Mr Stourra and gentlemen of the government. But I will tell you another story, which you will remember, when that hour comes in due course, very soon. There is the known cartoon "Tom and Jerry". There very often we see a scene where the cat, Tom, the poor and sympathetic cat, runs and passes the cliff, but continues to walk in the air. And when does it fall? It only falls when he looks down and sees that he doesn't support anything. This is exactly the function of fantasy in the Latin universe. That's how fantasy works in the Latin conceptual system. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is exactly the situation you are in. You've already crossed the cliff, and sooner or later you'll look somewhere. You will then see that the sense of your political and ideological sovereignty is just a fantasy. And when that's understood, the fall will be very steep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. The great list of fellow Members has been completed and - I would say - at ease and with the ability of all. Before we go to what I have already announced, I shall read a letter from the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, which he sent to the Bureau for six minutes. Mr President, my continued hospitality in the 'Evangelism' does not allow both my presence and my live participation in the debate on the budget for 2021. First, let me thank the doctors, the nursing staff, the workers in the "Evangelism" for their interest, care, the battle that they have for each and every patient who has been ill by COVID -19. With their help I soon hope to be close to my family, but also to return to my duties. Mr President, I hope that on the one hand the imminent vaccination will allow the situation to be progressively normalised and, on the other, support from the government to the economy, through the brave development and reforming changes, will enable us to see with optimism the recovery of positive growth rates in 2021. The Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy participates with all its forces in this great effort with concrete measures, which are described in detail in my speech. To sum up, I note that the main reform axes of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy focus on supporting Greek shipping and shipping, the most effective protection of our maritime borders, the maximisation of the safety and protection of human life at sea and the beaches, the strengthening of the Greek ports' development prospects, the development of maritime tourism, the promotion of island and marine space as a key part of the country's productive fabric. Mr President, we are supporting seafarers and shipping through the budget of 2021. We are implementing reforms at all levels. We give substance and meaning to islandity. We are creating the modern operating framework in which the whole maritime industry will grow even more in the years ahead. Anyone who knows little about shipping understands that these objectives are quite realistic and absolutely necessary. Mr President, I would like to ask you, like this letter and my attached speech, to be tabled in the Minutes of this House and to be distributed to the ladies and gentlemen. With appreciation, Yiannis Pakisotakis, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy.’ Ladies and gentlemen, the speech by the Minister, as he himself states, will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u79	Passing by to the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u80	Passing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u81	For his sake, thank you! I believe that all the wishes will sound in his ears, because I believe he's seeing us already. Of all the parties and all our colleagues, the wish! Now you will allow me to say that there must be no complaint from the parliamentary representatives, since they have taken the floor whenever they have asked for it, very positively and democratically, which also helps the citizen understand and, more generally, helps democracy to work even better. I won't tell them in detail, they're registered. Parliamentary representatives - and indeed different parties - have been given the floor many times. As the Chiefs were pre-determined and notified, around 13.00, Mr. Varoufakis will speak. It'll start around 13.05. I would ask that the six minutes be respected, and I want all of us to respect this, that is, you and me, who I am chairing. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Mylonakis has been the first to speak for six minutes. Five o'clock sounds like the bell, please let us stop at six. Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by wishing for myself, and also on behalf of the Greek Solution, to Giannis Placiotakis, a serious and selective colleague, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, and say to those who are fighting this disease. In a few hours' time, ladies and gentlemen, and after listening to the speeches of the political leaders, it will be time to vote on a budget that has been tabled and, as we have said from the very beginning, it is a budget which is uncertain and, in our view, practically impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, we must consider from now on what is going on and what has been done by the Greek people. I think we are all walking as far as we can now - because communication has been cut almost completely - along with the Greek citizen. I can't believe it. I do not know, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Staikora, where you are going, in your own country, where you are elected, if the same problems are experienced by people. I think what has happened to the Greek is that he has lost his dreams. He's lost his goals, Minister. He's seen everything collapse in front of him from one day to the next. Your effort now is to make the Greek people get used to and adapt to a new lifestyle, which is simple, living, living at EUR 300, EUR 400, with allowances of EUR 500, looking for work and not finding out, working half a day, ten, twelve hours and paying half the money, not having its own home, not having a good public health system, not knowing whether to get a pension tomorrow. No young man knows if he'll be retired tomorrow. Minister, you know, because we've spent several decades on our back, I just want to ask you where the Greek people's money went that he's paid for his safety. One generation worked for the next one to retire. Now what's going on? Anti-falsely, yes! What about the money so far? The property of the Greek people who have passed, the insurance funds? Leave the PSI you stole, the governments stole it, because you're all responsible here. The property has been in the U.S. for a century. So we're starting from scratch. Loans, loans, loans to governments and instalments, instalments, instalments, the 'dog' for the Greek people. I would like to ask something, Mr. Ministers, which makes it seem to me: Are you insane about the Greek? Minister, what are these English girls, the calican girls you've been teaching him lately? We started with the take away. Did anyone in Lamia know there in the villages, Mrs Katina, what does take away? Yes, sir. Then we went to the click away. Unbelievable. You're laughing. Mrs Katina found out the click away. Yeah, click on our minds. English must learn the world, English. The Babiniot is out of his mind. He's completely bald. And now we're coming to the new one. Well, yesterday Adoni Georgiadis, Mr. Rusopoule, I asked him and he said that Mr. Papathanassis was not responsible. Mr Papathanassis is coming out and now he is listening to the new: 'drive through'. I knew, Clana, the "drive in". Do you remember "drive in"? We went to the movies, we took a girl next door, we spent two or three hours, "drive in". Or the well-known "Opera" for the Thessalonians there in Katerini. Now we have learned 'drive through' and fine! Can't you let them open the stores, people go shopping? So here's the thing. As I tell you, this will be the case, Minister. Since the 18th the Cretans have decided to open their shops under the two hundred square blocks and they will. Did you see what they said? 'Let them come and arrest us!'. People can't stand it anymore. The focus is ruined. So, what if he went to a family, father, mother and two children, Mr. Papadimitriou, to a distance tavern, as he should? And one hour to go, one hour to come back, two and one, an hour and a half to eat, fine. You destroyed everything, closed everything. None of the questions we asked the ministers yesterday was answered seriously, none of them! In the health of enormous problems, in immigration, there is a loss of 60% - it says - they are not entitled to asylum. And where are they? And what did Mr. Kumucascus say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u83	Close, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u84	I'm hanging up. And what did he say? 'What do you want, we put them in a box to send them with 'DHL'?' Is that a minister's answer? Where's 60% that's not entitled to immunity? Did they leave for their countries?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u86	The Department of National Defense I think we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u87	Don't go to that now. Go from Ministry to Ministry! Your president will see you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u88	I'm done, Mr. President. Finally, what I have seen is an attempt by the New Democracy - I repeat - and SYRIZA to co-operate or, as Mr Voutsis says, to go to elections. Now you have to find them there in the SYRIZA, or collide with the New Democracy, or go to elections. I don't know what you both want. The Greek Solution is voting against the budget. It only supports and votes for the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much. To prepare a health check, please, so that the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement can speak, Mr. Loverdos, and explain something. Both Mr Grigoriadis and Mr Pafilis on their own request, a proposal - as you would like to take it - made use of the terminology and of the denology. I would just mention this so that someone is not considered to be excluded. Mr Loverdos, you have the floor and you are always consistent with your duties, but especially with time, and I ask you to keep him for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Stavoura, I am very pleased that the third time I raise an issue - let me think about it - transparency, you are present. I know your sensations and you will not misunderstand me, but I also asked Mr.Georgiades yesterday - he respected the question, but he did not give me an answer - to tell me why we are reading it on Sunday's financial press - I read it on "KATHEMERIN" - that you refused to give an extension of the deadline for the submission of tenders for the largest construction project in the last decade in Greece on the Egnatia Road. So if the Council of State does not take any insurance measures, it does not decide the insurance measures, i.e. temporary suspension of execution, we will have the negative for the investment climate that we may only have one participant in the tender, and from what I read in the press there are two other offers, in the name of them and in the consortia that participate, important, serious, large companies. Why? This is an unanswered question that certainly raises the question of your policy in relation to the investment climate. You are deprived of a very large public project - I say again the largest construction project in the last decade - a lot of participation in the competition, which can only be good for our country. So the question remains. It is the third time that I have not answered and I will insist that it be answered until some time. It doesn't cover me the fact that this has gone to justice. One more, the other one. What I ask is what the government does. The second issue relates, ladies and gentlemen, to the issue of waste. I have made my speech and seven speeches to discuss with ministers. So let me consider it to be a serious issue of second-hand Parliamentary representatives on the budget, the issue of waste management. Mr Hatzidakis, whom I am following on this issue, which is of major importance for the national economy and development, has made repeated statements. I noticed, I recorded and entered in my file his statement months ago, a statement at the beginning of 2020, that, this year, seventeen waste treatment plants will be auctioned, because we only have five. I heard him say yesterday - and I was surprised - that the next year will be auctioned and twenty will be settled. No auctions, that is, no auctions! So on this huge issue, which one aspect of it is the treatment of waste, while we are talking about reforms and while the government's dominant reason is reformist, I say again in my denture that there is a question. You legislate or announce reform policies without content. Your contents contradict your policies and the laws you are voting on. This is a very, very specific and tangible example, as well as what I have set out during these five days of our debate. I now come to a matter of foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, PASOK, the Change Movement, with me as responsible for external issues, is the first party in Greece to speak since Turkish provoking became aggression, that is, within the year 2020, about state - turmoil. The sanctions imposed by the United States are imposed on states - turmoil and imposed on Iran, with regard to North Korea, which are atrocities, and, of course, against Russia, which is another separate case. Sanctions were imposed on Turkey following the decision of the House of Representatives, which was taken by a 300-five-five-fifths majority in favour of seventy-eight-fifths. So veto, as far as the House of Representatives is concerned, is concerned, two thirds of the majority required on the veto are data. It therefore votes 'in favour' of sanctions, which we learned from yesterday's newspaper 'TAH', where at least I saw them, but this morning there is, indeed, appropriate information from all the media. The Senate then passed the sanctions by a majority of eighty-four against thirteen. Of course, here the majority concerned a set of defence policy issues in the United States and not an individual issue of sanctions. President Trump premises with a tweet, as he does, that he will exercise veto. He hasn't practiced it so far. And since we are all saying that the question is what the next President of the United States, President Biden, will do, then we can understand that since the Democrats have moved to both these United States legislators and have taken the initiative on these sanctions, this will be - more or less - and the policy of the next American President. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be in ten seconds, Mr. President. In contrast to the Americans - and a man who does not belong to those who are struggling for foreign policy issues to do 'they' in our domestic policy - let us see what the European Union of Chancellor Merkel has done, which has the dominant influence. Chancellor Merkel in 2009-2010 almost let our country fall on the rocks. It has made a huge problem for Europe's overall economy with its procrastination and policy 'to see what we are going to do', 'let's see what we're going to do'. In 2015, it provoked its procrastination and attitude to Turkey the growth of migrant-refugee. And now that, as I said yesterday to the Minister responsible, Mr Mitsarakis, we have been told that the European Union is working on a new legal framework for immigration and refugee matters, the German Presidency has not made any progress at all. We are in what Marguerite Schinnas said as his programme statements for the committee about a year and a half ago, to nothing about it. And now with Turkey, Mr President, with Turkish aggression, he has done absolutely nothing, he has taken everything back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u91	Please hang up, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u92	I'm closing, Mr. President. I wonder, when this was the context and when we all knew very well - I wrote it, I read it to many others - that this European Council was not Turkey, why did the government lift up the bar so high that it could go down? And I don't care that a government passes underneath, I care that the Greek people feel was defeated by this story. The government should be much more careful in the months ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Loverdos, I said I would be confirmed in my prediction when you said you would finish in ten seconds, but then I lost time and I wasn't confirmed! I therefore call on the Step for six minutes - and I believe that as an economist it will be consistent with time - the Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr Tsakalotos. Please approach the time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. It would be a pleasure to be able to say that we had a good exchange of views, but I cannot say it. But that's not the most important thing. It is not the government's insistence to distort evidence and not to tell the truth. The Greek people and history will forget all the things we have heard, such as the tables that do not apply and all that. Nor is it the lack of involvement in the arguments under the figures, on the argument of how much we should spend and when we should spend it. Instead of arguments, we had the funnyness of Mr. Psulakakis that we were saying that we should spend 40 million while always from the outset and in all the texts, we said in all the interviews that we did not want to spend at least 15 billion on the pillow, nor 10 billion above. to be ‘kavanja’. So the debate was for 10-12 billion. That was the serious conversation! When do you, how much do you do, how fast and what are the consequences if you don't? What's the most important thing? That even in this crisis, in COVID, you did not learn how much the world appreciates, but also in Greece, health. You have not taken this opportunity - you have also had Mr Pissaridis who does not say anything about the National Health System - to change direction and you are simply telling us that there may be a reduction, but we have a 'kavanja' of EUR 3 billion. We'll see what we'll do. The most serious of the future is that of all the things that we have taken over ten years both from the economic crisis and from the pandemic, nothing has really changed. Shouldn't we change priorities? With regard to the incredible report by Mr Pissaridis, these terrible inequalities that I have explained to you, but others too, and Mr Scandalidis and Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Pafilis, we will face them with another attack on the workers and their workers and their rights. As regards all the poverty and inequalities, we do not need to see the importance of jobs again and to support them, for example, women who do work in care and health! Nothing changes: liberalisation in insurance, liberalisation in labour markets and what the private sector wants for investment. We will call on them to write us what investments we will make for the EUR 32 billion. And if you hear the MPs of the New Democracy and the Ministers, you will hear, if you notice, under what they say, the raw language of power. It can't change anything, because there are the financial markets that will judge us. It can't change anything, because we don't have a standard, some country that does it differently. So what do you think? It can't change anything, because that's the way the world is, and we have to accept this reality. So why are you presenting us with a report from the 'CREDIT SWISS' on inequalities? C'est la vie, that's the way it is! It's what it is and it can't change. This is the raw language of power that we have heard from authority for hundreds of years. Nothing can change. So what is the message from the Members of the New Democracy and the Ministers? "Hit on your eggs. Don't risk anything. Do not look for radical solutions in another direction. We live in the best world there can be. Unfortunately, he is not perfect, but he is." This is the strategy of individual survival, that is, on your own, trying to find a job, on your own, to try the community to find some support from the family. This is the strategy of individual survival. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left - and I think this is all about the Left - will insist on what has brought us to the social state and what is good at the moment that you want to destroy it. He'll insist on the resistance strategy. We cannot accept that things cannot be different, that a person who works in the financial sector must always be evaluated above by a nurse or a nurse. We cannot believe that things should always be that way and we cannot have another system. We cannot believe that there can be no institutions that operate in favour of equality. We call on society on social terms to listen to the voice that says that these ten years that we spent could have been otherwise, that together it is worth fighting for something different, which puts justice, freedom, solidarity and which does not accept that the only game played is survival strategy, but the resistance strategy, which also has creative proposals for another world. We also call on all the political forces of the Left to discuss - at first in individual areas - how we transform the strategy of resistance to a political majority that does not accept the language of raw power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u95	We are also grateful to Mr Tsakalotos for making a good approach next year. I believe that the last of the parliamentary representatives should also be justified, to be considered objective in terms of the use of time. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Lebanese, has the floor for six minutes. Stay at six minutes, then, with this very small tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u96	I will try, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are heading towards the end of this top parliamentary procedure after five days of intense dialogue, reflection and controversy. It is important for our democracy that even in this difficult period of restrictive measures we have been able to have this debate in the Greek Parliament. I would therefore like to thank, on behalf of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, the officials who have exaggerated themselves from carrying out this task. The message we all emit together today is a resounding one: The House does not enter quarantine, our democracy remains strong. During this five-day marathon, the differences between the New Democracy and SYRIZA, which are now being concealed in two ways: on the one hand there is rationalization and logic, the resolution of the problems of society, the change of the economic model, the strengthening of the middle class, the programming speech and planning. This is the policy of Mr. Mitsotakis. On the other hand, there is again populism, inequality, irresponsibility, bisecting rhetoric. The opposition of the 'opposite', without the political, without the programme, without any proposals. The value of rationalisation and documented reason has been demonstrated. The Minister of Finance and the Minister's colleagues at the Ministry of Finance - and I would like to congratulate them on their extremely responsible attitude and position throughout this debate - they were placed in all their interventions with data and data, with tables and numbers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you realise that the numbers cannot lie. Five days now you have been fortified in your glass house, in your lie, in your delusion. You accept the fire of all the Parliament's wings for your failed government service and you apologize. You cannot create a political reason and a concrete action plan. On the contrary, you literally drowned in an ideological redefinition effort to justify your political void. We have lived the paradox over these five days to identify you social democracy, Simitis, PASOK, with neoliberalism - well, we obviously - and at the same time accept the fire of the true Left for an absolute match of yours with neocapitalism. Absolute scrubbing! In this context, we have all accepted - especially the New Democracy MPs - theoretical lessons of solidarity and humanism, absolute creative ambiguity by former SYRIZA ministers who are still unrepentant, still chasing ideological chimeres, and they have not asked for an apology from the Greek people and the very story of the results of their government service, after putting the economy at risk, and much more, the lives of the Greeks and Greeks who once trusted them and now reject them celebrityly. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will vote, representing the great majority of the Greek people, with the mind and heart of the 2021 budget, giving a strong vote of confidence to the government and the Prime Minister, a strong vote of confidence to continue the work of dealing with the pandemic, the path towards the economic process, the change in the political model and the transformation of society. Ladies and gentlemen, let me close by focusing on three crucial priorities of hope and perspective. First of all, I'm going to be on vaccination. We all need to send a message in favour of the vaccine, the only one that ensures that we leave the coronary nightmare behind. It takes responsibility and proper reason, trust in scientists and not fishing for votes in the cloudy waters of populism and conspiracy. Secondly, in deepening and continuing reforms. We need to continue with perseverance and patience so that we change our state, that the digital revolution takes place, that major infrastructure projects go ahead, that we change our productive model in the end. This course must not be interrupted and will not be interrupted. Thirdly - and more importantly - we must not let the opportunity of the Recovery Fund be lost. This fund is the great opportunity, the great hope and the great challenge for our country. That is why we call on all the wings, each one of their own starting points, to table proposals - but not isoproposive political proposals - to reconcile rather than reject them from the outset. The proper management of funds is not only a case of the Greek Government, it is a matter of all Greeks, since it will shape our country's course for the next few decades. The effective response to the triple crisis that we are experiencing can and must be the starting point for creating a better society for all. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy, with an absolute sense of its historical responsibility and with a sincere attitude to national understanding, calls upon all political forces of the place, all responsible political forces of the place, to contribute positively to the regeneration of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. I thank all the colleagues who have spoken. At the same time, I thank the rapporteurs and the special rapporteurs and last but not least the Parliamentary representatives, who have indeed complied with this agreement that we have made on adolescences. We are entering the last section of this top parliamentary and democratic process, namely the 2021 budget debate, with the last section, the speeches of the political leaders. I call on the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group to take the floor in Stepma. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, the word for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while carefully reading the budget, I have seen that for every great riddle of Greek society there is an analysis and a solution that is clear, simple, clear and at the same time mistaken. You are starting with the wrong analysis, you are going to go through wrong predictions and end up in policies from which the majority of citizens, unfortunately, will suffer. The worst part is that I'm very afraid you don't care very much. You don't care, because you think you can stay in things for a while yet, no matter whether you bring in a new lost decade. You do not care, because your objective - it is clear now, after a year and a half - is to serve oligarchal interests, which you consider to have the power to keep you in things, which you consider less likely, perhaps even right, if you serve the interests of many, but you displease the very few. You see, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that when I am called upon to choose between an interpretation of your errors, your failures, either on the basis of personal incompetence or the greedyness of those who move your yarns, I remain faithful to the belief that the greediness of those who move your yarns is always better than incompetent. I remember to the Prime Minister here in March from the Step of the House I was telling him - you were, too, if I am not mistaken, Minister - that at best in cases - if we were lucky - we might have escaped a 10% recession. I remember the irony you looked at me with at that time. Let's be a little accurate. I said - listen once again to say this, because it has been left on videos - that we would be lucky if we had escaped with 10%. I said it, and then I said that for me, it's going to 15%. That's how it's done. It's just like that. Do you want to confirm me again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u99	You were saying 15 percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u100	I heard that, Mr. Varoufakis, I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u101	I'm not talking to you, Mr. Loverdo. I am addressing my colleagues in the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u102	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u103	A few days later, if you remember, the IMF and repeat that prediction. Only in Mera25 at the first moment have we predicted with great precision not only the size of percentage but also the amount of GDP with which we would remain at the end of 2020. We had said about EUR 162 billion that we would have nominal GDP in 2020. You confirm that. I see it in your budget. Your forecast is EUR 163.4 billion. The nominal values are the only ones that count, Mr. Stakoura. I've told you before. One month later, I remember that the Prime Minister's answer was that no one can predict the magnitude of the recession. Hey, we anticipated it! You predict, unlike your Prime Minister, that there will be no recession. You were saying 0%. A month later, you did it by 4.7%. At the same time, the undocumented Governor of the Bank of Greece said 4% and said it for months later and in the summer, 4%. For us, the ball hasn't sat yet. When we sit and sit - we see that the revisions are continuous - when the 2020 GDP is finally to be revised for the last time, you will see that it will be much closer to 15%. Then you won't be in the government. That's another story! The question is why you fell so badly. It matters because only if you understand why you're going out, you can understand why you're going to fall out again - and what's the essence of your policies. The main reason is that you did not calculate the macroeconomic multiplier of the economy. In other words, if we take EUR 1 out of trade, how much does GDP fall? By 1.1%, 1.2%, 1.5%? That is the maximum question in a time of crisis. Without a serious estimate of the multiplier, there was no chance of any assessment of the magnitude of the recession. As in 2010, the International Monetary Fund screwed up in the estimate of the multiplier, which the IMF apologized for, since it had done the damage, so you, ten years later, chose to underestimate it. But it is not strange, if I judge, by reading your budget, that you fail to predict the past. I'll go back to this. You miscalculated the multiplier, Mr. Stakoura, for four reasons. Firstly, you forgot, as the IMF had forgotten in 2010, that the multiplier is always higher in a recession period than in a growth period. This is because fear and uncertainty in a difficult period of crisis reduces costs disproportionately by reducing incomes. They do not, in other words, spend less than those who make less, but they spend less and those who can make the same or more of the uncertainty. Secondly, you have not taken into account the impact of the crisis on the multiplier brother, the economic accelerator, i.e. the result of the pessimism of the businessmen, caused by the recession, on the economic activity in their tendency to invest, resulting in the collapse of investments which have the greatest macroeconomic factor. We've counted him. So, finally, the total multiplier is much bigger than the one you think. Thirdly, you have not even considered the impact on the multiplier of the labour market and labour relations. In a labour market, ladies and gentlemen, where a overwhelming proportion works either by black or by virtual contracts, which present a worker who works 12 hours a day as working ten hours a week. In such a labour market, the overcompression of the employer's costs is directly transformed into a significant reduction in the employee's earnings, which the State, by definition, does not make up, because such revenue is unpaid. We're talking about people between deterioration and incorporation. When their incomes are lost, incomes that would never be saved because they are people between downfall and incorporation, all these euros that lose come out of the cycle of GDP economic activity, increasing the multiplier of misery. The fourth reason why you did not calculate the multiplier is that the economy - not only the Greek but also the international one, and it is something I have been warning you about since the summer of 2019 in this Chamber - the Greek economy and the European economy long before the coronary came, was in negative dynamics, in material dynamics. Look at your figures last December, January, February. Look at the indicators of German industrial production. In the first quarter of 2020, our GDP, according to your own figures, even the recently revised ELSTAT, was a billion less than the first quarter of 2019, i.e. 2.4% lower. This is something that is not simply explained by the lockdown of the last period of March. Another is to hit a new world wave in an already subordinate economy, and another is to hit a material wave in an economy that is in some growth dynamics. It was not Greece's case, despite the fact that you falsely presented it was. In the fiasco of the multiplier calculation came to add the other fiasco, your failure to see what we were warning you about since March. We supported you in the lockdown, in the restrictive measures, but we told you that the second wave of the health pandemic would bring the second wave of the economic pandemic. You thought we'd have V-shaped recovery from September. If that's possible! We told you that the opening of tourism was an act of irresponsibility. And here I had the Prime Minister, who was slapping and ironing me - with you underneath the New Democracy, applauding him - for the revenues from tourism. We were telling you to set up a public network of mass testing centres so that we could have valid viral load data, for example in Thessaloniki, so that there is no need for panic horizontal bans throughout the territory of the last minute. We told you the economic black hole would be inconceivable. You didn't hear us. Result: you created a black hole, ladies and gentlemen of New Democracy, which even Steven Hawking, if he was with us, could not calculate its size. In a panic situation you fought to cover it up, like the foolish children who, after having broken a jar, pushed its fragments under the carpet. We told you that for months you have been working against economic statistics - you did it, Mr Stakoura - focusing instead of nominal GDP, GDP at current prices, supposedly, real GDP. You were adding deflation to the national income. Depression is not a sign that the market is going well, it's a sign that it's falling apart. So you took deflation and added it to national income to a little lessen the recession, to show that the recession was not as great as it was. This is a deflation, by the way, which concerns only the rich, ladies and gentlemen. Only the rich taste deflation. The poorest go to the supermarkets and see them turning in front of their eyes into pharmacies. And when this trick didn't work, with the aim of at least keeping the recession fictitiously even a little at 10%, you did with the help of the sinful ELSTAT something that will remain in the timeliness of statistical smuggling. You revised downwards GDP, nominal GDP - the right GDP - for 2019. You charged it up two weeks ago by 4.4 billion. Today is 4.4 billion less in 2019 than it was two weeks ago. We're not talking about six months ago. In other words, until two weeks ago, the GDP of 2010 was 187 billion and 413 million - you, ELSTAT said that - as a result of black magic, reduced by EUR 4 billion and EUR 43 million. On what excuse? With the excuse - it says - here's what your budget says in it. You don't get red when you write these things! It says you changed the base year. But are you serious? Base year you need when you go to correct an indicator, when you go to remove, for example, from the national income index by dividing GDP by average prices, by the consumer price index. Then it makes sense. It matters what base year is. It's 2010, it's 2015. What average prices do you use? However, GDP in nominal market prices does not depend on any base year. It is a simple sum of the euros that the citizens have in their pockets. And you'd better have changed the GDP of 2010 to go to pieces! I would accept that there was a mistake from ELSTAT last year and you corrected it. However, you have not only changed the 2019 GDP downwards, you also reduced the GDP of 2018, 2017, 2016. Much less than 2015 and thank you from heart for that. Reductions in 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010. In other words, you have made the present fight with the past and we risk losing the future. Why? Because you're addicted to the child's tactics with the broken jar and how he'll hide his pieces. After you finally accepted what I was saying to you that GDP will fall to 162, you thought that the only way to limit the recession from 2019 to 2020 is to reduce the GDP of 2019. But in order to reduce it, you should do it as you did from 187 to 183 and something, if you only did this and left 2018 where it was, it would appear that since 2019 we had a great recession, which is the fact that we didn't. So what did you do? You also reduced 2018, decreased in 2017, decreased also in 2016. And you have come to reduce GDP by 1,807 million in 2010. He tells you “the Papandreou government has been charged with bankruptcy, let it be charged more than 1.807 million! What a soul they have! Even KINAL will not even scream for it.’ Since I remembered those times that were still there, PASOK, you made me remember your monsters that are in your DNA. Remember 2006? Do you remember the notorious financial census? Do you remember her? I remember her. I remember that on one night in order to charge debts, costs to politically affect your previous, the Simitis government, at that time, you had carried expenditure from 2006 to the pre-2004 season. Do you remember how in doing this, Greece became the first country in the European Union that, at the initiative of your government, the Government of New Democracy, put us under surveillance? And when you panicked because you had done that nonsense, what did you do? You've done a second nonsense. As if the second mistake, the biggest one, corrects the first one. What did you do? Do you remember Mr. Horseson and the GDP review upwards? One night you took GDP from 181 billion with revision, with statistical terrestrials, at 228 billion. Do you remember what happened then? Instead of telling you from the European Union: 'Good children, you have discovered the money tree and you have riches', they said to you: 'Okay, if you are so rich, shut them up and pay more to the Community budget'. If there was a university degree in ruthless statistics, the New Democracy would have been excelled then. And now with this budget and what you are doing as a whole, especially with the reform of GDP by 2018, the nominal budget, you would also receive a doctorate for sure! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you cannot - as Members of Parliament I speak to you now and not as ministers - pretend to be ignorant. By the time you vote on this budget you will declare your indifference to the truth, to the country, to the imaginable citizens out there. If I started with your predictive failures, both of the future and of the past, it is because they lead to poor policies. You are talking about dozens of interventions in favour of the pandemic affected. Substantial interventions, however, - and I think we will agree on this - fall into three different categories, partial replacement of employees' wages in firms that are suspended, a reduction in the advance payment of company tax which has been affected and, of course, some other reductions, such as 3% of insurance contributions. That's the second charge. The third category is debt repayment suspensions, in the funds, in the state, in the banks, but suspensions equivalent to loans, interest rate liquidity, plus TPIX, interest rate liquidity even more and so on. Let's take one - one of those categories of your interventions. Partial replacement of wages in affected enterprises is necessary. By selecting horizontal replacements only for mappeds, however, the percentage of pay you will replace is macroeconomicly small. Cash is big, macroeconomic is small. You will tell me: 'Can this poor public fund raise more?' I'll answer you. If you take into account unpaid workers and unpaid working hours, then you will eventually be affected by the public funds for this year, for the year 2022, by the scale of the replacement of wages. What else could you do? I'll answer that in a minute. Before I get there, however, I will say a few words about the unresolved combination of academia on the one hand and loans on the other. Mr. Stavura, the fact that you didn't get the zero tax advance is a crime against logic. It is not possible, in 2020, to put a small- and medium-sized one to pay this year, against the business tax for 2021, which you calculate on the basis of the revenues of 2019, which are not there today, even 1 euro is a crime against logic. You continue to force small and medium-sized enterprises to lend to the state at a zero rate. That's the prepayment. At the same time, you lend them, through various forms of liquidity, at a positive interest rate. In other words, you apply the oldest art, the oldest art of loan carving to the victims of the pandemic. All I have to do is say the words to understand it. You force them to lend you interestlessly when you lend them offshore. So, can I just say it more straightforward? Especially for the inhibitions, when you say to small and medium-sized ones who have actually gone bankrupt: "Well, don't give us what you can't give us, you'll give it all year round and you'll give it to us." No bankrupt has ever been saved from bankruptcy with borrowers, inhibitors or prolongations. You act like small and medium-sized business, households, are having a liquidity problem. They don't have a liquidity problem, a bankruptcy problem they're facing. You made a liquidity observatory at the Treasury. Is that possible? Is that the problem? The observatory you should have built is an insolvency and insolvency observatory, which is damping up the unresolved advances of taxes, to which you are insisting and which you will bring back next year. At this time, instead of giving haircuts that our people need, especially small and medium-sized people out there, in order to avoid padlocks, you stick to VAT 23%. In a broken economy like Greece? Germany has reduced it, a not exactly broken economy. Why didn't you reduce it? Why didn't you reduce VAT from 23% to 15% or 17%, even temporarily, as the German Government did? Take the news, it's coming tsunami. It is brought by your mistaken assessment of the size of the black hole and your memorial choice to confuse bankruptcy with the lack of liquidity. The padlocks can only be minimized, a vaccine exists for the padlocks, it is what our tongue has hairded in Mera25 to say again and again. 'Kou-r-r-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t.'. If we want to weaken the tsunami of the paddocks, embolise the small media against the paddocks, the debts that have been suspended must now be deleted. The haircuts are for the padlocks like the coronary vaccine. They ask good-faithed citizens, journalists, political colleagues: 'May the state raise the burden of haircuts?' Unfortunately, the question needs to be raised in the opposite direction. Can the state lift the burden of not making these haircuts? That's the question. And the answer is a huge 'no'. Let me just say it. These debts, ladies and gentlemen, will be bored, because they will not be received unless they do. The question is whether they will get tired before the padlock or after the lock. Because if they get tired before the lockup, you won't get the money this year nor will you get taxes from business next year. So, after they get tired, let them get tired before the padlock to avoid the lock. Consider the haircuts we recommend as a wise investment in public revenues. Simple as that. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Instead, what do you anticipate in your budget? One of the same and worse. No reduction in the advance payment of taxes. No haircuts. On the contrary, you are already budgeting the first 223 million you will get behind the liquidity you have given this year. I'm talking about 2021. Yeah, with this side sleeping. Not only will they have to give it to you, but just that you ask for it, it brings the paddock closer to which you will lose future income. Reduction in health funding. You know, I'm not going to honor this crime with any comment. I just said it. You insist on 2020 to 30% of the proof of dutyfree, in a quarantine period, that the evidence be electronic. I'm 100% in favour of electronic transactions. You know that. But in this period, which many of our fellow citizens have not managed to transfer, transfer from analogue to digital transactions, it is unacceptable to insist on it. Actually, do you know what you're gonna do? You'll increase their tax rate to those who won't be able to collect electronic proof for this year, at this difficult moment, and pay 20% more. So sadism anymore? Is it so difficult, for at least this year, to release taxpayers and also taxis from this expensive to all suffering by abolishing the obligation to produce electronic proof? Do it just for this year, but do it. Wherever we look, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, on your budget pages, it reminds us of a creep looking for a way to squeeze into the souls of the victims of the pandemic. And if we look forward to seeing where the economy will be in twelve months next year in December, the thought is dark. It darkens, because the same failures will bring worse results, as your mistakes accumulate and with them will come the austere wave of padlocks, impoverishment of those who continue to work and of course the human mass of unemployment, secret and obvious. You're saying in 2021 we'll have growth. Look, the fact that economic activity will be higher in 2021 than it is this year is no doubt. Development? Only in your dreams. Indeed, less economic activity than 2020 will be difficult to achieve, even if you do. However, I would like to remind you that what you say plus 5% of GDP, which is planned for 2021, firstly, is particularly anemic. For the first time, there has been an increase in the number of people living in the Community. Instead of the 187 billion, which we thought until two weeks ago we had, last year, a year in 2019, which I wouldn't say our people were eating with gold spoons, would I? I would remind you that after a large fall like the one in 2020, the gel that normally comes, expressed in percentages, can be presented very impressively without being. If we had 100 apples last year and this year we only have twenty, but next year we go from twenty to forty, we will have 100% growth, growth of the number of apples. Nevertheless, we will still have sixty apples less than we had last year. That's the bitter truth. But even that 5% for 2021 I don't see you pushing it too fanatical. Reading the budget, you're talking about the 3.5% scenario. And you have begun to prepare your world for something even worse than that. But that too, because of the poor calculation of the multiplier and the retardant of the economy, I think that this is also a mistake and I think that you will be lucky in 2021 if GDP exceeds 168 billion. You are underestimating something else, Minister: the very negative impact on the international competitiveness of our tourism economy, particularly on tourism coming outside the euro area, which will have a euro in relation to the dollar. Why is the dollar coming up in 2021? Joe Byden's slim victory, the fact that he does not control the Senate and cannot present his programme for a new deal, essentially to strengthen the country's growth rate, along with a federal central bank that will produce money horizons to some extent replace the lost dynamics because of this election result, which leads to a fiscal paralysis in the United States, is the combination that will bring about a rise in the dollar. The result is that the dollar will decline over the euro, affecting the competitiveness of Greek tourism and our exports to countries outside the euro area. Did you take that into account? I can't see it anywhere. So instead of building your budget on serious analyses, you build it in the monumental logic of the decade that turned Greece into a debt-government. Loans and suspensions, further depreciation of the wage earner, a new bankruptcy law that is being slain out there, auspicious to the coming austerity that will bring new derailment of the already unsustainable debt, state guarantees in the predatorial oligarchy that you are preparing for the great pillaging through the "HRAKLE". There's no chance your budget numbers will come out. It's like you've got two feet in a bucket, grab the handle and try to get up. It won't happen. It's a sad sight. But because denial and criticism are not for us, I will put forward specific proposals on what you should do. Since March we have been ahead of the drafting of our own proposal on the budget and on the institutional aspects. After eight months of consultation with citizens, institutions, scientific companies, I present a proposal for a budget for 2021 together with a proposal for a law of institutional matters. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr Yiannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above proposal for a budget, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In summary, the first part relates to direct interventions required by the bad weather: Substantial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen. Comprehensive tax cuts and insurance contributions suspended in 2020. It's 1.568 million. Tire 'em now! Society's buzzing. Small and medium-sized ones are demanding. You can do it. I hope you do. I wish you would. In addition to the suspensions, however, the liquidity benefits of 2.548 million and 5.368 million from the permitted part of the repayable. For large, for ‘Aegean’, for ‘PIRAIOS’, you systematically strengthen their capital base. You may not want to, but you do. For small and medium-sized enterprises, in addition to loans, no capital aid. That's unauthorized. What do we suggest? We are proposing that the money you have given for liquidity be converted into capital aid as follows: Whether the businessman returns this money, whether it prefers, is voluntary, whether it is difficult, easily and simply through the same platform he has received, to grant the State option, that is, the state share of the company. In practice what does that mean? That public theoretically can use this option, this option, in future to ask for a share in the company. But how does this work? It is a right that the State uses to set as a condition for transferring the company to a third party the repayment of the loan to the State by which the option is cancelled. We are essentially talking about converting the loan into a slight form of capital support, but it can make the difference between the lid and the recovery of a small and medium-sized enterprise. If you disagree with our proposal, it is like saying that Cocos was a fine idea for "PIRAIS" but not for small and medium-sized enterprises. Watch out before you reject our proposal. You will be exposed irreparably to small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those who voted for the New Democracy. I now move on to the tax areas that we are proposing. Removal of all prepayments of taxes for companies with fewer than three hundred employees. That had to be the case even now. Enterprise tax rates: 15% for small, 20% for medium-sized enterprises, 29% for large enterprises. Two VAT rates, the upper one that can raise a economy like ours is 15% with plastic money, 18% with cash to push tax evasion and the lower 6% and 9% respectively. For the Aegean islands and border areas outside the main road corridors, all rates should be reduced by 25%, plus a zero rate for printed books, press and dance. A special digital tax on FANGs, in the 4% digital colossal companies, on these companies that distort competition, as we have recently proposed with our amendment to the Smuggling Bill. Finally, the abolition of the ENPI for objective values below 70,000. It's over. Delete it. For objective values 70,000 below, erase HISPIA. For objective values of one million and upward increase HICPIA 10%. Substantial support, ladies and gentlemen of the National Health System. It is unbelievable, however, that, in the midst of a pandemic and despite the very great repeated lies you have said and said again, you have not predicted the minimum amount needed to recruit at least a thousand permanent nurses and doctors in addition to the already serving, whether they are subsidiary or permanent. We propose, as a minimum, a minimum of 800 million for 2021. Look, it's not even close to what we dream of. We are simply showing this EUR 800 million as the absolute minimum. I'm on my way to the vaccination. Before we talk about how the vaccines are going to happen here, I would like to ask you whether you will protest against the European Union. Are you going to denounce them for the unacceptable delay in approving the vaccines? In Britain and the United States, vaccination has begun. It has nothing to do with the safety of the vaccine. There are purely bureaucratic procedures in Brussels that stop the approval of the vaccine. Are you going to protest or is it out of your mind to say anything critical about Brussels? But I come to the extra thousands of vaccination centres you have announced. What money are you going to make? With what your budget forgot to budget? All that will come about as you go is a cheap, nonexistent vaccination system. You're being recruited by the Pharmacy Officers. This morning I was talking to a pharmacy employee. You authorize them as free work to work for your system without compensation. You're being recruited health centers, KAPH. With what personal? Of course with what budget? That is how you do not build a vaccination system, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. So you're setting up a foretold fiasco. Since March we were telling you to set up a public network of centres for mass tests. If you had done so not only would we not be surprised by the second wave, resulting - according to the data of the European Centre for Disease Prevention - in Greece with 12.5 deaths per 100 000 inhabitants being the highest today than Britain, the United States and France. You would now have the yeast built, built the pan-Hellenic network of vaccination centres. We are proposing that you get a billion of the 3 billion you have put into the budget reserve and build with this national network of tests for vaccination. When the pandemic leaves this network to join and translate into the primary care we know we don't have. And you say that. Now we go to the great paradox, that is to say ask people to stay in the houses, which once the pandemic retreats, you're going to start taking one - one out of the hammer. Beyond the moral issue, which is not inconspicuous, I will refer to the economic dimension of the "gresos" with the pillars of "ERAKLI" on the one hand and the bankruptcy on the other. The pandemic, Minister, has 'blackened' and another EUR 20 billion of loans, bad lies, no matter how much we hide it. What did this red loan offer do? Lower the price of red loans to the secondary market of ‘HRAKLE’. Even toss the people, the small and medium-sized, the families on the road and take their homes off the hammer to satisfy the predators that bought these red loans, these prices will not bite. All he keeps them somewhere is the 12 billion euros you promised you'd borrow from the troika to give them to the predators. In a country that spends 5.4 billion euros on all education, 4.3 billion euros on health - that's what you've budgeted - to get 12 billion euros from the troika to give your friends, predators, you call it yourself. I will not use any terms, because I will be forced to deviate from courtesy. We propose abolishing the "HRAKLI" and replacing it by "PTYSEA", a public debt management company where the red loans pass, in exchange for the future revenues of "DEYSEA", securitised and with a small guarantee of 3 billion euros by the Greek State. Families and small and medium-sized enterprises will yield a monthly fixed rate that will not exceed one third of their available net income, in exchange for the freezing of loans. They'll keep their titles and protection against auctioning. This sentence of Mera25 is the only one in line with the European legal framework, with the public interest and the minimisation of the locks. Now I come to the vulnerable, to the uncharted, to the people in despair who have not taken 1 euro all this time. For them, you have budgeted absolute zero. We do not accept this, nor are we, of course, prepared to talk about money in pillows which, whether they exist or are inflamed with thorns. That is why our proposal once again is founded on innovative tools. The principle on which our proposal is based is not a new one. Do you remember what the troika was up to in 2012 - you were in the government - to strengthen bankers with funds that were not there? Do you remember the deferred tax? What was the deferred tax? The right of bankers to use taxes today that they should pay to the state in the future, but which the state said 'we will not take them, but use them today as capital'. If that's not air, I don't know what it is! It worked. Without this deferred tax, the banks would be even more bankrupt than they are. What do we say? If this idea, this concept, it was a good idea to rescue the bankers, it might also be a good idea to rescue the poor, the vulnerable and the uncharted. How? Establishing a system of financial transactions by private public entities. We call it "DIMITRA" for a short time. Each LNG in the “DIMITRA” system automatically creates a financial credit account and provides its holder with a pin, a security lock. Individuals may use this personal account number in the “DIMITRA” to pay taxes and tax charges to tax, but also to pay each other. The exceptional aid to the most vulnerable citizens could take the form of a credit, for example, EUR 300 in this account, “DIMITRA”, amounts that a supermarket or any other business would have every reason to accept as a payment, as they would depreciate taxes and taxes on tax. Furthermore, the “DIMITRA” system could allow anyone who has some money that does not need it directly, for example a 1,000 euros, to transfer it to this account on condition, with a contract with the State, with your Ministry, that if he keeps it a year there, he can, with these 1000 euros, depreciate 1.050 euros of the year, that is to say, get a 5% interest in the form of a tax exemption. This is a system that at the same time would enable the state to effectively help the vulnerable, borrowed by taxpayers in exchange for tax exemptions that reduce the overtaxation of citizens and give them a way out of the banks' zero interest rates, create liquidity in the market that will never be able to leave Greece, because all these credit institutions are locked in the "DIMITRA" in other words in the Greek tax system. Be careful, if you reject this proposal or discredit it, as I have you able to do it, it will actually be like saying that such ideas are excellent to rescue bankers, but not small and medium-sized ones. Be careful, you'll be revealed. I now come to the second part of our proposal in institutional areas. How can our state, ladies and gentlemen, strike tax evasion without real-time algorithmic controls? And how can this be done without the abolition of the Troika-controlled ADI and the transfer of tax software, which is not controlled by your Minister of Digital Governance in a General Secretariat of Information Systems and Tax Software that we are constantly proposing? We propose a new General Secretariat of Public Incomes, a new General Secretariat of Information Systems and Tax Software, autonomous by the Minister and the Government. We don't want the Minister giving orders to them. And how will they become autonomous? How will they be autonomous from both the troika and the Minister? The Secretary-General will not be chosen by the Government, nor by the Troika, but will be elected by a social selection committee of senior officials, one third of whom will be Members, one third of whom will be deputies, and one third of whom will be paid professionals, either accountants or tax advisors or experts in information systems. At the same time, we are abolishing the Transitional Fund and everything that has actually been absorbed, the Financial Stability Fund, TIADED, and we are creating the National Banking Company and a new Greek Development Bank, which merges the existing Development Bank with TIADED, turning the public property into the capital base of this new development bank, and we are joining a new public company called ATHENA, a national, a public property development company and financial transactions. Ladies and gentlemen, a budget which leaves the financial instruments of the State in the hands of creditors, a budget that, in the midst of a pandemic, does not budget new funds for public health, for the hordes of the poor, for the unpaid citizens, is a budget that cannot act as a tool in the hands of a government. And, of course, the budget based on the moving sand of a completely incorrect dynamic government debt analysis is a budget which will remind the PASOK budget in December 2009 in historical times just before bankruptcy. In other words, it is a budget that was not worth the paper on which it was written. I read on the pages of your budget your revised estimate that debt as a percentage of GDP this year will reach 208,9%. 216.5% will arrive later, but what can we talk about now? Good thing you admitted it would be over 200%, because when I said it in March, you were looking at me again ironically. It does not, however, matter whether it will result in 209% or 217%. Unsustainable, unsustainable. Your attempt, of course, to ash the eyes of the world - without red - is touching. I see that you're predicting the debt rate in 2021 will fall below 200% and I'm sitting here doing the numbers. I didn't get the numbers, Mr. Stakoura. Come and do it together if you want. I'll only use your numbers and not mine. The deviation of the primary objective for 2020 is already EUR 6.9 billion. From your budget I got this. In other words, the surplus demanded by the troika to make payment of EUR 6.9 billion was lost because of a coronary. I'm not criticizing. I'm recording it. This adds to the EUR 11.76 billion, which is the primary deficit, which is by definition a new lending. Right? Where's the primary deficit going? He's going to debt. For 2021 what do you predict? I'm taking your numbers and using them. Firstly, there will be no EUR 7 billion of the primary surplus that SYRIZA had imposed for 2021, which was imposed on him and accepted for 2021. With your own loose forecasts there will be an additional primary deficit of EUR 6.67 billion. So, if we add those numbers, which I just mentioned, for the period 2020-2021, do you know what we're doing in total? We are finding that in total the debt will have gone back to 32.4 billion, while the GDP, according to your own figures, will shrink to 171 billion. So, with your numbers, not mine, the debt will be 219% of the time. Mine will be 221%. It doesn't matter, 219% or 221%. Let's leave it in the middle. One important thing: it is not sustainable. Either way, the troika will knock on your door. Regarding the Recovery Fund, for which you say and repeat and support the hopes of so many people, I told you in June not to be exposed and talk about 70 billion, 60 and 30 billion and 20 billion. I told you that you would get clearly around 9 billion in total over the next few years. In fact, I had anticipated - some of my own party had told me that I was overdoing it - that from the Recovery Fund of 2021 go get 3 billion. You disproved me, Minister. You put 2.5 billion in the budget. Not even the 3 billion I anticipated, you didn't put it. You put $2.5 billion on it. Just to say: the Recovery Fund is an enhanced NSRF. Welcome. It won't make a difference. It's macroeconomicly insignificant. It's a drop in front of the tsunami of the recession coming. I have heard something else: I must say that I have not listened to you. You may have said that. I wish you hadn't said that. But you have to stop them from being exposed. Tell them not to say it. They say and repeat that 'all right, we had a very difficult year, the debt went up, the GDP fell, but our debt is sustainable, despite the pandemic, because the country is now borrowing at very low interest rates'. The reason why you should stop them from saying such nonsense is that your budget disguises them. I read your own text self-determination. It's excellent. Congratulations! Let me say something good for the government and the Minister! What I'm going to read to you is absolutely right. But, tell your MPs to know that, not to be exposed. So I read. You say verbatim, "On 30-9-2020 the fixed rate debt represented 96.6% of the total debt. This relationship demonstrates the small effect expected to cause a change in interest rates in debt sizes’. That's right. And immediately afterwards, rightly enough, explain that "even 1% of interest rates will rise..." - that is, bond yields - "the debt burden for 2021 is calculated at levels below 0.1% of GDP". Obviously, you put this in order to reassure your own, the markets, that even if interest rates were to rise, there is nothing wrong with it, because it does not affect our debt. Right. But don't want it all yours. For precisely the same reason that the debt will not be charged, if the interest rate rises, it will not be reduced when it is reduced. Do we understand? As much as the loan rate on the markets, for which you applaud, rejoice, dress "Europe" and go out on the street celebrating, however the loan rate is, the state remains deeply bankrupt. And as long as we rely on the courtesy of the Troika to repay the debt, through the one prolongation after the other, Greece will remain a debt colony. Here in plenary, Mr Staikora, on 8 April I first spoke about the Fifth Memorandum. It was the day, Mr Staikoura, that you said that you would not become a Barofaakis at that evening's Eurogroup, namely that you would not listen to the veto that I asked you for, which I challenged and invited you to exercise on that Eurogroup in favour of the Eurobond. Having announced in plenary that you will not veto that afternoon you have turned yourself into a simple viewer on a Eurogroup that was the forerunner of the fifth memorandum, as the Eurobond was buried that day. Why does that matter? Because that Eurobond was the only hope to avoid the fifth memorandum. Just give yourself the reasoning. Since the debt goes back 32.4%, it will need to be extended. Given that once the German federal budget has been balanced, will the signals that will ask you to balance your own, do you think that there is a possibility from the Federal parliament of Berlin, from the Dutch parliament, that there will be a new expansion of the Greek debt and that you can balance your budget, without measures? Fortunately you are king-in-law of the king, because you yourself promised the Eurogroup that you would have a primary surplus in 2021 and they said to you: "e, okay, not in 2021." But again, the reductions, the adjustments that will require you, no matter what you call it, do not matter. Mr Tsipras called it a 'fourth memorandum or a memorandum'. You may call it "the plan for ripping Greece". Put both the portrait and profile of my dear Mr. Pissaridis and the cover and the cover. It doesn't matter what you call it. It is an unreasonable memorandum, with supplementary pension cuts in particular, with new taxes for small and medium-sized enterprises, with the continued advance payment of taxes. That's it. Ladies and gentlemen, someone from SYRIZA once said that I had been obsessed with the debt. It's true. I've confessed a lot. Why? Because the less sustainable our debt is the more the troika's pressures on prepaid, new burdens, new cuts, the more the oligarchy increases the raids on many to rebuild and the greater it is the loss of democratic control and popular sovereignty over the lives of these citizens who listen to us - if they hear us - out there. So I come to the chase. What about the debt? What's got to be done now? What will happen if you let it go to the Troika Autopilot is the following: restructuring or death. I'm not exaggerating. Restructuring or death. As long as you do not demand restructuring, you are slowly killing, but firmly, the ability of our society to reproduce economically, biologically, even culturally. I am not saying that you would agree with some panic voices that come out of the Italian Government and ask the European Central Bank to cut off the bonds it has bought. Mrs. Lagard can't do that even if she wants to. She goes against her statute. However, a combination of Eurobonds on the one hand and the interconnection of the rate of repayment of our loans, particularly in the troika, at the rate of nominal GDP growth, is the solution. And you know what? It is also legal, in the context of the Treaties of the European Union and the Statute of the European Central Bank, and macroeconomicly correct and moral. Of course, I do not doubt that if you go to demand something like this from the Eurogroup - either you at the Eurogroup or Mr Mitsotakis at the summit - will like you. There's no doubt about it. As was not at all like Andrew Papandreou in 1983, when he demanded the creation of the ESDP procurer, vetoing the entry of Spain and Portugal into the European Economic Community. But only if they dislike you at the Eurogroup or at some summit, you'll know that you did something good for your people. Only then will they appreciate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to make a point to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u105	My dear, Mr President, is the state's budget. I'll finish. I think what I'm saying is important even to them, to whom we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u106	Time is twenty-five minutes and we've reached fifty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, that's right. And I'm going more! Thank you. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] As he said - because I referred to him - Andreas Papandreou, the 'yes man', do not appreciate them nor do those who use them. And since I am talking about veto at the summit, the Prime Minister has just returned from a summit that proved to be the top of iceberg and cold. Didn't you learn your lesson? Orban took all that vulgar he asked for because he threatened with veto. What did you get? You know exactly what you got. Don't hang them now. Mrs. Merkel never treats as a serious person, who, by a pretext, says she won't veto. You expressly accept one strategy after another because you chose to be another government that embraces the permanent memorandum 'yes' in everything. Ladies and gentlemen, last year your budget was a mythical one. This year you come to add an unscientific fantasy work to this mythology. Do you know what to tremble? What the people want. The people want to end the pandemic and you personally for your family, I am sure you want it, but as a government you must shake the end of the pandemic, because then the "lukelets" will come. As they come as waves one worse than another, as unemployment shows her real face, you will be between Scylla and Harybdis. Scylla will be the various "rapults", which you have relaunched the auctions, and Harybden is no more than the troika, which will come to enforce, as I said before, the fifth. And when you realize that the vaccine against the fifth is not there, you will take all your plans, especially the budget, and the popular anger will culminate with the auctions, bankruptcys and the new wave of our children who will leave for the outside to offer the sauntrak of your policy of depreciation. You see that the grace period that you secured, especially because of SYRIZA's capturing with the oligarchy, ends. Your voters will renounce you if they ever know what you're doing with "HRAKLIS", if they ever learn about the rajadism you're treating at the Summits and at the Eurogroups. That is why, because you know that - you certainly have the means of mass propaganda with you, but you do not know for how long you will have them - you are investing in authoritarianism. You build a huge para-state - fortress from Evros to the universities, from the suburbs of hospitals to the streets where a group of MPs made a symbolic march on November 17th. We will not follow you on this path of discord. We, Mera25, will turn a permeable light on the unlikely hypocrisy of a government, which formally invokes the principles of family and home, while crucially and decisively affecting both family and home. As long as you defend government posts with the Operetta memorial numbers we have seen for a long time and build the new police state - good bad for when the popular anger breaks out - we will build out relationships of trust with conservative small and medium-sized enterprises, with radicals of young people, with honest entrepreneurs, with persecuted, rented workers, with other postmodern forms of exploitation, with people who look in the future and see something in the Mera25 programme that we presented in September for the new 'green' technological revolution. Gentlemen and gentlemen of the Government, never in the past has so few of them benefited so few, while so many have suffered so much! As long as you are the party of the Memorandum of Continuation, we will be its party of consistency in economic rationale and social justice. The period of grace that with excellent communication tactics, with semi-meters, with engraved failures, you could convince or dominate, this period is over. You will not extend it either with this budget or with the autocracy of the new New Democracy police state. Now begins a new period, the period of irreversible consequences that Mera25 has foreseeed for a long time. The three major parties, over the last decade, have assigned all the powers, all the tools in the troika and the "predators". But that's nothing in front of what they couldn't get us. We are still rulers of our soul. We are still capable of a real, serious, scientific analysis of our situation. We're still our luck bosses. Your budget will be used as an empty shirt, such as every Memorandum of Understanding. However, the proposals made by Mera25 today in the Minutes of this House will remain a source of hope for the future, not only for those who agree with us but also for those who see something in our proposals, which brings hope. Mr President, I shall conclude with one comment and one proposal to all the parties in this House, to every Member. From the Balkan Wars to this day Greece passed four existential crises: the Asia Minor Destruction, the Civil War, the betrayal of Cyprus and the bankruptcy of 2010. Of these four wounds, the first three to some extent have healed. The Asia Minor Destruction was studied thoroughly and registered in our common memory. The wound of the Civil War was healed by the legalisation of the JRC, the recognition of national resistance and even partial post-political reconciliation. The Cyprus issue is still a wound, but the Greek Parliament did everything it could to heal it by opening the Cyprus file. The collapse of 2010 remains. As long as the file of bankruptcy and memoranda is not opened, division will work by bringing new errors that jeopardise the sustainability of our society. For these reasons today, I take the initiative to sign up for everyone and all of you a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, in accordance with Article 68(2) of the Constitution and Article 144 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure of the Greek Parliament, to investigate the causes and actions of the Migration to date which led to the bankruptcy of 2010. We don't care about targeting anyone. The aim of the committee we are proposing is to record from post-mortem to date, on the basis of scientific audits, all opinions on the causes and actions that led our country, our people, on bankruptcy, the private sector, on the basis of a large part of the households, on the memoranda. Our proposal has already been sent to the parliamentary offices of each party. I call on the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff Responsibility, the Presidents of all the parliamentary groups, each and every one of you, without fear and without passion to subscribe to the proposal for a committee of inquiry. It is a sacred duty of the Greek Parliament, as our predecessors opened the Cyprus file, so we can open the file of bankruptcy and memoranda. Why now? Because the economic pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, sends our national income lower than it was at any time in the three years of the last decade, while the debt is higher than ever. Because no state budget, not only your own, cannot be drawn up without relying on understanding and addressing this national disaster that hit the country in 2010 and still its misanthropic project, ready to capture the '20s in the footsteps of the '10s. Beyond our disagreements, however intense they may be, I believe that we have an obligation towards our brave people, vis-à-vis all the voters, to sign up for this House to leave an integrated, accessible dossier to the next generations for bankruptcy and memoranda. Otherwise, we will be accomplices to the great crime described by George Orwell with three sharp phrases: "The past has been deleted. Delete is forgotten. The lie has become true." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, because there was a question on the subject of speaking time for the Members of Parliament, as you know, the Presidents of the five groups have had twenty-five minutes. We, the Bureau, with all due respect to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, do not intend to stop anyone and interrupt it. From there on, we are only making the point, and the President of the Parliamentary Group can choose. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Varoufakis, we will prove you once again because the Greek Solution is really the solution for the country. We will be voting in favour of what you request. Because we are voting for what is positive, while others are not voting for it. Prespecies deal, see what happened, you didn't vote. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We will therefore vote to detect any mistakes - voluntary or involuntary - to see that some people must also know what has happened at some point. You are right and that must be done, because at some point in matters of major importance we must all be here - if you want, not in those hours simply - the guardians of democracy. And the Prespecies Agreement, like this, how we led to the Memorandums and the IMF, must emerge and find physical and moral self-government, who they were, because we were there. But, above all, we need to see at some point and the reality, that some have worked against our country on many levels and, above all, against inadvertent mistakes - I would like to believe - but to find out what these are, whether inadvertent or voluntary. Now let's go to the rest. ‘Budget’ means a complex word from ‘to’ and ‘together’. In the light of this alone, Mr Stakoura, the budget is over for objective reasons, because you cannot predict. If there's a third lockdown and a fourth and we can go by May, it can't be done. So the government's fault - as I see it - is clinging to it, because it cannot budget. But all the budgets in the past were empty. Everyone fell out, not only yours, and PASOK and SYRIZA. I was in 2007, in 2008, in 2009 here, I remember that we were saying the same thing at the time, 'budget, budget', and every time the oxymoil never fell in the budget. So I will be fair, Minister, with your Government in the context of criticism, but I will start by saying that there is a lack of planning. Who's that? With loan, Minister, you can't help the economy. I'm afraid so. Mr Skakakis said - who is here - said something very simple, that he will now need the money we get for the next ones to pay for it. So I do economic policy, so it can make a man of elementary life, so he can make economic policy, and anyone who borrows and subsidizes, gives money and waits for his son, his grandson, his gracious man. Wrong policy! Decades are that logic and attitude, we must change it. I must also say that the transfer of commitments to the future burys the future. That's what she does. We are transferring the obligations - each government - in the future, and we have reached the memorials, the multiple memoranda, not one, will come another. It's for granted, don't be fooled! You and your government may - I repeat - have purpose. The Prime Minister's away here. Oh, my God, there's no one missing, there's no one missing. All right, let's also have a teleconferencing conference in the speeches of the Prime Minister then or of the Heads, let's watch him on television, ladies and gentlemen. It's a budget, we must all be here, at least the Chiefs. I have said that before, it is not just a matter of Prime Minister but of all the political leaders. I sat down, too, and I heard Mr. Varoufakis, I'm gonna listen to Mr. Koutsouba, though I know what he's going to say - don't I? - I'll sit down and listen to him and Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Gennamas and all of them. But this has to stop sometime. By being absent, I will simply say it in a very elegant way - their dislike - personal, yes - but, above all, their reparations to democracy. This is a disgrace to democracy. Sadly, consulting and listening to the political opponent is an obligation of anyone. I've said it another time, I'm over it. Listen, Mr Stakoura, there is one thing Mr Varoufakis is right: he said that your MPs are being taken over on many channels that we have low lending. Yes, you say so, to accept it as an argument. At some point, low lending will stop, but at some point in six months, in one year, low interest rates will stop. What are we gonna do? Do you have a response plan? In other words, do you have a 'business plan' - and an alpha plan, a beta plan - about what we will do from there and beyond when interest rates increase? Because if the interest rates increase, live we're burned! No fifth, not sixth, not seventh, not eighth, 100 memos will pass over us. I would like to say to you, in other words, that this is what is missing from the country's political staff - I will tell you, in an elegant way - perhaps because you are not businessmen, you are not doing business. I do, I know what it means. I mean, even for the lockdowns, the first, the second one that came, I'm ready now for the third in my business. I know what I'm going to do to get my defense ready, my reserves, to deal with the situation. You are not ready and it seems from the logic of 'I say this morning' and at noon I am doing any more. With the nails, for example, the Minister said - as is the case - that the excellent Minister this morning, Mr Papathanases, will not open. He comes out two hours later, he opens them. I mean, he needs a plan, coordination. It's not personal, Minister - to God, is it? - but I want to say that this lack of coordination, the lack of planning is reflected daily. And let's go to the rest. Greece is the worst prepared country. He keeps wasting and spending money without a plan. I insist on the plan. And what's the plan? Production of wealth. I say this from the first moment I came here and came in here that if we don't change the production model and produce the country, we'll have terrible problems. We spend money on support to households and businesses with loans, we give loans again to households. And it is well done by the government and it helps them and is to its credit, social sensitivity and solidarity, and so the government must do, but it is credit. This must be understood by the Members of the New Democracy, it is loans that must be repaid. Your children will pay for it, our grandchildren will pay for it. Gross government debt 364 billion euros in September 2020, recession 11%. Look, Mr. Varoufakis said it would be 10%, 15%. I will be honest: the only one here that actually fell in the number inside is Mr. Viliardos from the Greek Solution, who had told you since March that it would be 11% of the recession when you said 3%, 4%, 5%. You were playing like a courgette. Why? I will tell you quite simply: if you have any advisers - because you are not alone, you are, in any case, an economist - you have all of them! Dismiss them, Minister! You can't do it all on your own! If your advisors were to say 4% or 5% or 3%, they are failed, get everyone out of your side! I'm just telling you. I'm not telling you to resign, but when you have ten consultants, who are advising you wrong... I am told by Mr Viliardos, that you are sure, in March, and he says 'yes, he will go 11%'. I wouldn't fire him, I can't fire him, but your advisers can fire them. It can't be done! Why don't you do that? Say it's some people's fault. It can't be anyone's fault! When the finance minister's forecasts fall out, we have an issue, you guys, we have an issue that's important. Let's finally see who's to blame in this country. No one's fault? So what are you doing now? Since November, you have been making this trick, you are postponing the payments, you are going below, Minister, traffic charges, insurance, tax, and you are transferring them later. Now I will tell you in January, ladies and gentlemen, what is going to happen in the Greek economy: Seventh instalment of income tax, fifth instalment of HISPIA, December VAT, insurance contributions, eighth instalment of income tax, sixth instalment of ENPIA, VAT January, travel fees 2021, insurance contributions. My Minister, we're bankrupt. They're all going to go bankrupt with all this. We're done. And business and households are done, i.e. everything you think about, I don't know how you think about it. It's a strange concept of my own view, but I want to talk a little bit seriously. You did a budget - well, and they did the same - the mortgage loan why didn't you put it in? Put it on, guys, what are you afraid of? The loan, why didn't you put it on? Rehabilitations, compensation, put it on, write it in there the verb! What are we afraid of? Why don't we put that in the balance sheet and this? It's a remark of mine. You will tell me, even the President of the Republic in her message yesterday to the Kalavritan, ladies and gentlemen, that he deleted the "German" from the "repairs". The President of our Republic - which you elected of the New Democracy and I had objections - in the message to Mayor Kalavryton said "repairs" abstract, not German. They fear to say the word 'German', because the parties all - even the JRC curiously - may be wrong, correct me - they did not make a statement about the Kalavry, no press release from the rest of the parties. Why? What's wrong with us? Are we in germany? Alzheimer's German? What's wrong with us? A press release for the Kalavry massacre, not one? Which is a symbol for the country of claims from the Nazi atrocity and slaughter of the Greeks. What's simpler? We are now going to at least my perception of domestic wealth production. Ladies and gentlemen, it was March, where the Prime Minister wanted and had to deal with a pandemic. What would I do if I were the Prime Minister's? I would call the Minister of Finance and my advisers and say to them: "We need health. What should the country do so that I do not have another exchange rate for imports of products?' You did it with the masks. But what didn't you do? Protective costumes, gloves, antiseptics, tests and respirators, i.e. you did not pre-suppose businesses with money to produce these materials and we are forced to import, which means "import these products and expose money, currency." If, however, we supported some companies that could produce these products, had we had sufficient, would we not have a scissors in the effluent? It's just stuff! That's what I'm saying, you must have reflexes as rulers. The governments, unfortunately, have no reflexes in our country. How do you raise income? And I tell the ministers. It is very easy, ladies and gentlemen, and I am not saying that you will increase. The left does it all the time, he says, "Take a raise, give an increase!" I won't say to give increases, no, I'll say something simple. What would I do? I would try to put what they say 'end to the shameful gain'. If you see the price increases for the last two months, you'll be shocked, Mr. Stakoura! Where's my friend Adonis? I mean, if I can, and I'm squeeze, I'm cutting out the filth, the public gets money in his pocket. So let's go to the rice - now listen! - which on 3 November - I have the information from a well-known supermarket and I will submit to the Minutes - had EUR 1.54 and on 10 November, Minister, it went EUR 1.65! The spaghetti from EUR 0.83 on November 3, went 0.90 on November 10. There are too many prices! We're talking about an increase of about 15% on all products in a ten-day! That means that if I get 500 euros a month, if I have 500 euros, Minister, Mr Stakoura, and there is a 10% increase in consumer goods, I lose 50 euros a month! So beat the filth to keep the money from falling into the citizen's pocket. You don't have to be the phosphites, the minds economists. There's a lot of people here! But the country was celebrated by economists who bankrupt Greece! To find some technocrats, businessmen, a few brains that think a little practically. That's what I'm saying. I'm not saying anything else. So let's go to the other one. There is 12% loss of income in Greeks in 2020. Fact! No comparison with another country in Europe, Mr Stakoura. The debts in insurance funds increased 1.8 billion, while we have fifty thousand properties in the hammer of funds. And you bring 3.6 billion taxes in 2021! Why, Minister? Bring in 3.6 billion euros taxes in 2021, after we drained them financially and drank the blood with the breeze from the Greeks! And there's a crisis, which means the world doesn't girdle and the shops don't work. And I'm saying all this with very simple words. I shall submit to the minutes the document certifying what I have told you. Let's go to the other one. You're constantly doin' alchemy. I can't anymore! Our fathers, Minister, Mr Staikora - in the past many years ago, I have had the honour of knowing your father - are waiting for their retirement, you know. There are thousands of Greeks who have not been retired for years! In 2015-2016 you cut backs. People come to the European Court of Justice! It's hundreds of thousands! One hundred and sixty-five thousand pensioners, your father, my grandfather, your dad, your uncle are waiting to retire. There's four hundred and twenty thousand pensions coming up! The documents are here! That means you don't pay the retired man, he doesn't take money to the market, and the man, your grandfather, your father, is hungry. You also do accounting alchemys: you say I don't have that much expense. But if we were to pay the pensions, you'd have more expenses. You tell me, how's Grandpa getting through, who can't give the grandchildren since the 10-euro pension? How can your father give money, guys? What can I say? I can't understand our logic. SYRIZA did that, too, attempted to fix the climate. And Bruce tried, says the Minister. But here I see pensioners still insist they haven't taken their money. You have cut backwards of retired people. Let's go to the unemployment benefit. Listen, another alchemy! You're Houdini in the economy! I'm telling you that. I've never seen such a thing before in my life! As far as the long-term unemployed are concerned, from 1-32020 to the publication of the CRL will receive 400 euros. All the old guys are excluded. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Aren't old people long-term unemployed, ladies and gentlemen? Why are you only doing photographic devices for a few? Why are you doing this? Let me tell you why. Because you don't have any money. But, to have money, my Minister, the place must produce wealth. As long as we don't produce wealth, we'll produce debt! The simplest of all, we need to make a productive reconstruction plan. The seasonal hotel staff are hostages, desperate, as well as six hundred thousand people in the focus - I tell you a few simple things - scientists without incomes, while free professionals did not get one euro. You know that? Not even 1 euro! You throw them five crumbs and the story's over! Just borrow. Here's what the free professionals got: a repayable deposit! And applaud! The free professionals got a refundable deposit! What does that mean? Loan. It's loan! In November, half of the loan, half of the subsidy. What I'm telling you is that there are mistakes. You're making social policy with our own money. Who's that? You tell the property owner to go take a discount on the tenant. That's what you tell him! It's like the tenant has to crash with the owner! And they collide, kill each other, doesn't want the tenant to do, doesn't want the owner to do, and throw the ball to the owners. That means fugitive! You're fugitives in your decisions. When you're going to make decisions really active, you don't get them. Closed business will pay 5/8 of the Christmas gift. How's that gonna happen? Tell me about it! I'm asking you and I'm looking into your eyes: I guess you have business friends who have shops. How do I pay, Minister, 5/8? Three hundred, four hundred employees. You, as far as your remnant is concerned, don't say when. But we businessmen have to pay the 5/8. We're talking about businessmen who haven't been treating for so long, having closed shops. I have four closed shops, no one works, and I have to pay them. And, to God, they must be paid! But how will this happen if I haven't, if I haven't collected 1 euros for months? Months are closed. How's it going to happen? So tell me what I have to do? Sell my body or the businessman sell his body? Well, laugh, it makes sense to laugh, but these are really issues that we need to see seriously. And I'll tell you one more thing. I don't think the economy would go any better or the others would go better. To God! The pandemic is a big phenomenon. But it's wrong for the businessman to pay his gun to the head something he doesn't have, to catch him from the neck and lift him up! A hundred and fifty thousand operations, Minister, will be closed. Who said that? Your man! Yours are ideological! Yannis Hadjithiodosios! He is the President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce! New Democracy is man! I guess you know that. Isn't it a New Democracy? PASOK, IS HE?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u110	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u111	No, ma'am, no! Anyway, you're the same thing, Mrs. Swollen. You're going to congress and you're going to fight again! Don't mess it up! But I say: When he speaks of a hundred and fifty thousand businesses, man...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u112	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u113	When I say "your own" man, I don't say party man of your own. You're confusing it. I mean ideologically. Ideologically! Because, anyway, you ideologically serve the memorials, without the production of wealth. He said things, said 40 percent of the cigarette and a bunch of others. The Patras shopkeepers testified their keys. They went to the city hall and filed it! Why? Because they can't work. In Heraklion, Crete, I hear they'll open themselves. I'm not in favour of this, with a piece of shit breaking the law. But we need to look at the feelings of a man who has a shop closed for months, who doesn't make money and pays taxes. Honestly, this is a bad counsellor for a businessman whose dignity, the will, as well as the freedom, if you like, must engage in trade. All this has to be seen seriously. And I come to the small sellers of Xanthi. They cannot sell their products, clothes, shoes, household items in the bazaar of Xanthi. The repayable advance did not reach the beneficiaries, the small sellers all over Greece say. I'm telling you the mistakes you made! Also, halls of events, baptisms, marriages, all that is done, have closed down all. Is there a CAR? I'm telling you there's nothing! For the event halls that are hundreds of thousands of workers there, like waiters, cooks, etc., you never took care, Minister! Why? What for? You didn't care about the weddings, about the baptisms, about the events that your ministers go up there talking about, your parties gathered on Christmas and New Year's Day, and they said theirs. Why didn't you do something? I'm telling you things that you need to see seriously. But what you are'slips' is what they say in the folk,'slips' is in the fines. Here is why I say this: in the Netherlands, whoever is not wearing a mask, is fined EUR 90. The basic salary is 1,700 euros. In Germany, the fine is EUR 150 and the basic salary of EUR 1,500. In Greece, EUR 300 is a fine, while the basic salary is EUR 600. And a lot of things I put now, because they're both four hours and everything else. There, then, in the fines you are very lipless! That's the problem! Now, I do not understand Mr Drasakis' proposal for co-management of the Recovery Fund. What does the poet mean? Because a lot is said about SYRIZA coexistence underground, that they are talking about finding them with the New Democracy, that they will go for a universal, that there are disagreements, etc. What do you mean? Mr Drasakis said yesterday about co-management of the Recovery Fund. He says we can handle it together. What is it, the engagement for what comes later on for universal coexistence? Let SYRIZA say, anyway, that he wants to rule with New Democracy. Say it openly, we don't have to be fooled! Co-management with what? They didn't vote for them? It's not a government? How do you propose an engagement? I didn't get it! How is that possible? In any case, they have supported you, and in the presidencies' agreement they did nothing but mainly at ECU 100 billion. Saying on SYRIZA that they're lost, New Democracy and there it's a garrison! So I'm telling you, I see that the logic of going there is growing. Let's go to the next one. Welcome to the New Democracy, for the NSRF. I was listening to my friend Adoni - who is a friend from a young child, I mean a family friend, because we are politically opposed - who was happy here, and who was beaten for the NRP, that we are first in absorption. Shame on you! You should be ashamed of yourself! I'll file the document. Wait a minute. I'm coming to the N.S.S.A. Let's see what S.H.I.E.L.D. means in the Greek language, because Adonis Georgiadis knows very well Greek to make such a mistake. It means Corporate Pact in the Framework of Development. What's coming to my mind? An industry, a craftsman, a production, something to do in our country, something specific. Listen to the money! In the 'Help at Home' programme, children's stations, mental health rehabilitation activities, with grants to companies and infrastructure projects. That's S.H.I.E.L.D.? Is that a NSRF for production and development? That's allowances! Do you know what "ESDP" means, gentlemen? I have a specific and structured plan to do what we call 'productive reconstruction' and from there I make money and give it where it takes, that is to say at stations and in rehab and anywhere. I am not borrowing for the future of our country and our children to make a social policy - which I have to do. If I can't do it in the production of wealth, then I'll quit if I'm not capable. It's just stuff. So let's not make fun of the world. 40 percent went to imports. Here's what you're doing. You're committing crimes. We must produce wealth so that the country can move forward. I'll say something simple. Each government is judged by its outcome. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, the results so far are very unpleasant for the government. You'll tell me it's the pandemic. There is always an excuse for failure, but always the failure of any government and the previous governments has been paid for by one: the Greek people! That's the problem. The Greek people paid for the failures of all of us! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the rest. You know, there's a lot to say. In all negative records, Greece is the first. It is the first in the European Union in economic recession in the third quarter of 2020, a more tripartite performance than the average of the Zone. Here's the evidence, and I'll testify for the Minutes. How are we going to go forward? How are we going to go forward like this? You murdered the retail trade. You know, my Minister, that, unfortunately, the country's economy is based on two pillars, retail trade and tourism. In tourism, you screwed up. It's not your fault. It's your fault you didn't run the tests, but we wouldn't have tourists anyway. Let's go down. Let's go to the retail trade. In the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Austria, Eastern Europe, Bulgaria, Romania, the shops are not closed. Switzerland, Spain, Portugal had differentiated epidemiological zones. In Belgium, France, Ireland, the Czech Republic again for Christmas. You're the ones who booked all the stores. We're talking about Lockdown. This is, of course, for the prisoners. I don't know if you know. Lockdown came out of prison. That's what they said and they were closing the cells. So if you think that Lockdown should be applied to the Greek as a prisoner, you are wrong. Germany's closing now. The New Democracy is pleased. They all come out of New Democracy trolls on Twitter and start to say "Here, and Germany closes its market. Well, he's closing it! It closes it!' Wait a minute. In Germany, when a store closes, 75% of the turnover pays the state. Close my shop for me too! Give me 70%! I can assure you, Minister, that you will close the shops of all Greeks and give them 75%. They'll thank you too. They'll thank you! They will say: "Good for the Minister! Let all Greece vote for him again!" But what are you doing? You close the stores, you don't give them any help, and you tax them on top! Tell me the logic now! How's it going to happen? And because I am not a sterile critic against you, I will mention twenty-two concrete proposals from the Greek Solution. I'll tell you first of all something in general. We must make the pandemic problem, which is European and global, an opportunity for the real development of the country. It's a chance! Firstly, this Pissaridis report says, Mr Minister, that we need to increase exports, and that is where Greece can win. What are we going to export, my Minister? Tell me what we can export. ‘Bachelor party’, as said in television channels? And these are imported, all that vulgar! What are we going to export? Tell me about it. How do I get out if I don't produce? What am I supposed to do about exporting? What industrial product does Greece produce? Here I told the Prime Minister of the country that there was "Stealth" in Kilkis. There is the "TELEMACHOS" system that is anti-drone system and can be used by Greece and has done nothing to date. And he's not here! I say that when you have an industry of 8% to 9% on our GDP, while in Europe the average is 15%, how do I get to export? Here I'm importing lemons, mandarins, vegetables, tomato! How am I supposed to get out? Here, then, is the fight of your government. I suggest that you go and fight in the European Union. You as government and the other MEPs of the other parties, all together, must fight in concrete terms and demand something very simple. The European Union's commitment to export Greek agricultural products to these countries, in order to support and pay our debt. Make a commitment. To impose duties on imports of Turkish products of similar kind. We can demand it from the European Union. Because I have a financial problem, and I have to pay you back, and we are in solidarity, we have to go all the MEPs and all the parties and the government to press. Listen. My forgiving mother said: "The child to breast-feed must cry. He must scream, he must scream. The mother forgets.’ So you must call on the European Union to demand, my Minister, that you claim. Learn to claim. You're not claiming! That is how the Germans in 1953, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who had to - listen - put a German debt in order to send us products throughout Europe. Am I wrong, Mr. Villardo? There is an example of Germany in 1953. Let's do it, too. I'm telling you proposals. I also know that you agree with me on what I will tell you, Mr Hatzidakis - you cannot subsidise unemployment. It's a crime. It's wrong. I mean, I'm subsidising the lazy or the unemployed or the unemployed. Oh, no. I'm gonna subsidise the job. "He hired ten more people and I'll pay it all." That means I'm motivating the Greek to work, to get into the production process. I give him the badge: "You won't get free money. I'll give you money because you're unemployed, but you're going to work at a company." What's that logic? The same amount should be paid for the whole of 2021. What's simpler? With regard to post-paid cheques, we are talking about state guarantees of EUR 1,76 billion for the securitisation of part of cheques, with the aim of a gradual winding-up. People will be narrowed by the bad checks. They're gonna cry manus, I'm telling you. Suppliers' checks are coming. They say so themselves. January, February, March I won't be able to pay, they tell me. What am I supposed to do? I'm going to ruin myself, why aren't the others paying? As far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, most of the loans, Mr President, and honourable Members, have taken the biggest heads, your friends. I'll say it, I don't care. Let some people be disturbed. These are ELPEs, the new "BOMOPOLAS-MYTILINEOS", "MOTOR OIL", "LAMDA", OPAP, "TITAN". They took the money. Our philosophy is completely different. This money must go to the small companies that produce products, because it will give me goodwill, the one who produces goods for export. These companies are either providing services or we have to talk! That's air! Energy companies - and well - private electricity companies, etc., where there is no private company. There's phone records. "Produce company" means that I produce a power company, Mr. Hatzidakis. To provide EUR 32 billion as loans from the recovery package of the European Union. We must not forget that we are not talking about a single market, but about a single market, a single market, a single market, a Until when are you gonna make fun of the world? Tell me about it. Greece is taking EUR 19.4 billion. EUR 4.1 billion, or 25%, goes to 'code 3'. I looked for what that money is. Code 3 is employment, skills, social cohesion. What does that mean? Is that growth? Is that a recovery of the economy? ‘Code 3.3’ is health costs. The 'code 3.4' is expenditure - I will say, no misunderstandings - for LGBTQ, illegal immigrants, etc. Do you hear that? It's inside the Recovery Fund. What does recovery have to do with illegal immigrants? Illegal immigrant recovery? Recovery with the LGBTQs? You did not write this, of course, but in Italy and France, people wrote it and - to their honour - and they were not ashamed, because the specific code is mentioned in Italy. It says: The numbers - listen here - are given in detail. Italy takes around EUR 26 billion, of which EUR 9 billion goes to health and EUR 17.1 billion goes to equality. Thus written, "equity of the species", which are the LGBTKI. I don't understand that. Trust me. Look for it, ladies and gentlemen, and you'll find it. "Retrieving" is that? Is that a recovery? Let's go to the other proposition for businessmen. Minister, I'll tell you to understand it. My shop is closed. Why should I pay municipal fees, Mr. Ministers and my Mr. Dog, where are you good at finance? Tell me, do you have a shop, Mr. Dog? You don't have one, I guess. Why should I pay city fees? Why would business people pay city fees? Tell me why someone's going to pay municipal fees at a closed shop! Since he doesn't get inside, he doesn't go in either. PPC has a lot of indirect taxes in it. Remove them! Here you go and cut off the power! They're both traffic charges and car insurance, all that you've forgotten. The fifth proposal concerns the fight to suspend payments to the European Union. We save EUR 1.2 billion. To go to investment instead of paying the country's loans. The sixth proposal concerns health. Most people have said so and I agree with them. Increase health funds. The seventh proposal - and here it starts producing wealth - concerns farmers. Repeal of the special oil charge. Finally, fourth and fifth generations, modernization, reafforestation. There's no resurrected, Minister. Turkish rule we passed, we passed it all, and we did not resurrect land! Five acres of cultivation can't be done, boys! I don't know where you're from the villages. You guys are from Fluff, if I'm not mistaken. Five and six acres of cultivation cannot be done. He wants big land. Go to the Netherlands and see what is happening or in Israel. I went to the Netherlands to see how they cultivate aromatic plants. There are huge areas with known greenhouses. We're talking about a hundred acres of a glasshouse. In Greece with nylon bags we still have them, with sticks around, with stakes. Everyone you're from there, you know it. That means organizing, planning and reconstructing the production of my wealth. Fishermen: Minister, in three months' time now, in March 2021, most of the Members of the New Democracy do not know it again - the definition is ending - of fishing zones in the Aegean Sea. Our fishermen will face huge problems, with constant challenges from the Turks for that reason alone. Why? Because we did not establish fishing zones. The European Union gave us a date until March 2021. Why don't you do that? Say in here, however, that we fear the Turks, that the Greek people know that you fear the Turks Anyone who's scared is not worth ruling in a country. Understood. You must not be afraid. We must not be afraid of any Turk and make the self-evident things our international right says! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Farmers: Increasing activity in horse-fisheries and pig farms. Greece has a huge deficit. What would I do, Minister? Just stuff. What kind of meat import do I do? I do 90% of pork. But he's talking for himself. When I import 90% pork, it means I'm sending abroad money. So I'll give money to get pig farms. There's no other way. Animal husbandry, farms, I have to get them, so I don't have to send money, currency, to the Dutch, to the Danus, to the German. They're simple solutions. And how does that work? Quality control - i.e. control at the borders - of milk and meat. See what rot is going to go back. See how many rotten meats will go back, how many troubled milk will go back. So we reduce the negative trade balance, so Greek wins, Greece wins. Thirteenth proposal: the creation of greenhouses and the creation of serious fish farms. Here's what we're up to, guys. I mean, we don't get lessons. Turkey, Minister, is not here the Minister for Development - will build up to 2023 per cent of what? Underground water barrier. Do you hear, Mr. Lonely Guardian of PASOK, Mr. Loverdo? Do you hear them? I say it because you're alone every time and keep the PASOK on your back!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u114	I'm here, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u115	You're the president. Don't get confused. Another Member and another President. I wish he would be President and Andrew sometime. You never know! So I'm saying this. Turkey will therefore build underground water dams. Do you understand that? Admiral, we still have irrigation. These irrigations we've made of the junta are, in seven years' time, with cement, the sun sees them. I'm just telling you little things. Plan wants us to sit down and think and get serious. It can't be done. Tax: Minister, I want you to listen to this - leave the phone - because it is serious. Apart from the proposals: repatriation of Greek businesses from Bulgaria. I told the Prime Minister here. Tomorrow morning reduce the tax to 10% for companies returning from Bulgaria. Jr. 5.5 billion a year. Write this down: 5.5 billion. Six thousand Greek production companies in Bulgaria, which has vetoed against Greece for sanctions against Turkey. Punish them. This is where I want you! Is that right, Borisov? I'm punishing you now. In all Greek businesses 10%, coming from Bulgaria. And you throw him a slap. You can't reach him, he's a beast all over it, but we're saying. He understands from our language too. Fifty-three thousand people work in Bulgarian companies. Twelfth proposal: Taxation - tax evasion. Reduced rate of tax for enterprises. Do I get past this? Oh, no. Why? We know that taxation is expensive. You made a move with dividends - right direction - but how do I compete with Cyprus with 12.5% tax, Ireland with 12.5%, Hungary with 9%, Romania with 16%, Bulgaria with around 14%? The Greek companies are at 24% plus 5% dividends. I, too, disagree with Mr Varoufakis, because he said 29% of the big companies. There won't be any hits here, Mr. Varoufakis. He won't step on any company, believe me. Most of them are already gone. If you put him 29% tax on the big investor - money he wants to make - he won't come here. I may be wrong, but that's how I think I'm an entrepreneur. I don't know as an economist. Mr. Villard will tell you. We're going to abolish tax documents, based on real and clean revenues. It's happening in America. What is this thing, Minister? I told you that everything you buy is going to prove your tax income. That's it. And he goes in and out. Revenue - expenditure. Why do I have to collect 30% of this, 20% of the other, 10% of the other, and make the citizen accountant? Whatever's going on in America. Revenues - costs together in a bag and everything that surpasss is taxed. That's how you hit the tax evasion. You hit her, because you're obliging the other guy to get proof, because he's getting inside the income that's going to be taxed at the end, the other way or the part of it. Automatic clearing of debt and repayments. Delete fines and increments. Minister, Mr. Stakoura, would you like to take money? There are companies that they want, but they can't pay the huge fines you've made them. Turn off all the fines. Two hundred dosing. The troika won't let you. All right! If the troika doesn't let us, what can I tell you? Get out of the chair and put the Troika Minister in! I can't say it any different. I'm telling you, I know what you're going to tell me. You're right. You have the gun to the head. But tell the Greek people that "you know, I can't do this," because they swear you. They don't swear the troika. Tell them: 'I can't do any more doses, because the troika won't let me.' To know who rules the place, not the government, but the troika! For the Greek people to know! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Exemption from temporary contribution, Venizelos. Hey, Venizelo! Mr. Venizelos left us the legacy of this temporary contribution of solidarity. We still have her. It was temporary. No more permanent in the country called Greece! Repeal of the Interim ENVIRONMENT. Temporary ETUCA according to Mr. Venizelos. Removal of trade fee. They're things that go in and don't go. That's the dirt! Let me now tell you what is going on in Germany, Minister. You want to solve the problem of tax evasion together? Two moves. Do you want to solve this? So listen to the Greek solution proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Does the state oblige me to have an accountant in my companies, Minister, yes or no? Does it obligate me? Doesn't it obligate me? I want an accountant. He's obliging him. Does the accountant ever have responsibility? No, no one. Trust me. None. You will, as in Germany, do a certified accounting office that will control the companies and the accountant will be co-responsible for tax evasion. Let me see if it ever allows an accounting office that's certified to any businessman to steal or evade. It's never gonna happen. In Germany this is the case, Minister. They are certified that the accounting offices are also required to be consistent with the obligations. Also, I don't understand, my accountant's mistakes, I'll pay for them? A new businessman opens up a shop, keeps books, doesn't know about accounts. Is he obligated? The accountant's wrong. Who's paying her? The businessman. Why, Minister, in the mistake of the accountant? Co-responsibility of the accountant. To have the stress the accountant, to be all the books all right, not to evade the business and thus also to have the state demand that the businessman and the accountant be co-responsible. But you're also committing another crime. You've got the tax collectors to be head hunters. They're chasing the business. They put fines. Let me give you an example. A tax collector's making a mistake in the counting. He passes through the TEN and goes to court. He must have this man, to prove he's innocent, to pay 50% of the fine with the capital, to put a lawyer, to wait four or five years for him to be justified, and if he is justified, he will have lost the lawyer's money, he will have lost the money from the paradoxes, and you will return it, if you return it to him, the money back. That's unfair. That's not a state. This is a state that hates citizens and entrepreneurs. Understood: Polynomia we have, but we need to do simple surgical movements. Tax controls. A clear two-year deadline. Maximum control per company, background work control at home. And, of course, I will say again: who, Mr Stakoura, has produced the tax consortia of the infallibility of God's infallibility? You tell me. Tell me what the responsibility of the tax office is, which, when the citizen was justified in court, was attributed to the tax office. Never! So even the tax collector is not responsible, and the accountant is not responsible, but only the man who opened a small shop, a small business now, and he doesn't know accountancy. Now tell me how sensible that is. How sensible is that? As for the doses, I told you two hundred forty doses to HISPIA, banks, public, or you won't collect anything. Now we're going to the big party. Listen, Minister. Increase of the Public Investment Programme. A recovery package of 32 billion, a fair transfer plan. Nice in philosophy. I liked it. Listen, recovery package 32 billion, fair transfer or transition plan. 'Green' investments. Here's what you're doing. We're taking 32 billion. Greece does not produce wind turbines, unfortunately. Who's producing them? Germany, which contributes 15% to the European budget. Good. How's Hellas? It serves Germany. We'll get wind turbines from Germany for 30 years. There will be no growth, because there will be no jobs in wind turbines. One or two places are all. He doesn't have much more. And you tell me about growth. What would I do? I was going to set up a motor vehicle industry. I would bring the best Greek minds from America, from France, from Germany, to set up a small production unit, even car batteries. I would. None, but no choices can be made over time in the future. Look at the present. The present, to serve your friends, the windmills, the forklifts. So instead of going to the digitisation of Mr. Pierracakis' public to go to high technology. What this means, my Minister: High technology and national security are the future. Whatever we say, this is the future for the planet. Construction of drones - I have said it a thousand times - 'TELEMATH'. Minister, I repeat them to be written in the Minutes, because you're late, and that's what bothers me. Take the 6 billion from the green transition, from the wind turbines and Mr. Mytilene, Mr. Koplouzo, and all these good kids and give them there. Because with 6.2 billion you can make industrial units that will have huge exports in the years to come. Not just the hippolo, the Mytilian, and the rest of the children. To win the Greek is important, so that they can have jobs, that the Greek citizen can get money, that he can pay his tax, buy his products. That's it. Otherwise, it's not the production of wealth. Otherwise, it's a service provision. Air is a service, not a production of wealth. Make it clear to your mind a few things. Also, ELVO, ESA, ESA, Elefsina Shipyard, Scaramaga for commercial uses. I got them. Why would you give the money there and I'd like to make my own ships? A nation, Crete, the Minoans had reached Gibraltar and outward, Mrs Bakoyannis. The Minoans, the Cretans with their ships had arrived to Gibraltar and outward. Until Norway they had gone by boats. Are we building ships thousands of years and now cannot we build ships for us, support the shipyards, as Germany supports the ‘KRUPP’ that takes off the submarines? How does he support her? What kind of guys are these of us? No, it's not. But they have a plan. Here in the Germans I have to pay tribute. They've always had a plan, and they've always gone ahead with a plan. That's the problem of the Greek political scene, that we don't have a plan...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u116	They don't have submarines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u118	I'm sorry, Mr. Admiral's right. The admiral knows that. He knows. He's right. Radar: There's been "TELEMACH" for five years, you guys. I call it. "TELEMACH" is anti-drone radar. S.H.I.E.L.D.'s got it. Therefore, co-production of autonomous units for export. Support the effort. The Drone from Kilkis, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. I told Mr. Georgioda to call the Prime Minister and go together. Well, they haven't gone yet. Children, students with teachers, built drone, normal drone. It could bring missiles up, not the other ones, with the cameras we've got now. Those are just cameras. There's a camera underneath what's going on. Oh, no. With missiles. It is the answer to Turkey. Let's get ready. We are talking about ship building and, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened with the hydrocarbons in our country? The story's over. Since 2007, 2009 I have been shouting here. They made fun of me. Suddenly they found out. It doesn't matter. But it's too late. Why don't we start something to speed up the procedures. There's a little bit of a tread. I don't understand why. Private debt is huge. There must be a haircut for private debt, households and people who owe trillions. Over 240 billion euros is private debt. Delete! Partial deletion must be made. Also, do you want to find money, Minister? Tell the Prime Minister to abolish the twenty-seven Independent Authorities. Five says the Constitution and we have thirty-two. Why do we have thirty-two? It is 400 million euros a year for a thousand five hundred appointed, conveniently, of your parties. My Minister, it's 400 million. The answers are yours. I have them in my office. Twenty-seven Independent Authorities, where they are appointed by you, by the government, whatever government. Well, they're not independent. Let's all put on one of the parties and the story's over. Four hundred million euros a year? Are we serious? After five says the Constitution. You're breaking it yourself. Mr President, I will say this once again because I do not want to misinterpret what the Greek Solution says. I'm not against the vaccines. I've had vaccines too. Let me make it clear. We all had vaccines when we were younger. But I will have to read something that, if there is one person who is questioning this man here, is honestly too small and is too tall, in his view, when you question him. "I am not in favour of mandatory vaccination for this vaccine. First of all, we must always be very honest and very transparent: that we do not know everything about this vaccine, as we do not know everything about this virus. At each stage we will say that we know about efficiency. So, I believe, much more in the work of persuasion through transparency, despite the obligation. It's counterproductive to make the vaccine mandatory. Vaccines we do not know about a pathology that is new. It would be a good thing..." says Mr. McCrone "to be careful when we insist on compulsoryity." McCrone! If there is even one in here who thinks he knows better than McCron - not as a person, but because of the scientific team that France has, the scientists he has - to talk about it seriously. Otherwise, the best solution is silence. Let's keep quiet. I won't say about the medicine Mr. Paulakis assured me of, Mr. Voutsi. Your doctor here confirmed me the next day, because you tried to say I didn't say it well. Your doctor confirmed about the medicine and many have taken it. Trust me. Well, if some people think that McCron is sprayed, they're the same. So be careful. It takes special care of the vaccine from all of us. And those of us who insist on doing so, but especially those who say they don't. He needs attention. Scientists talk, but talk. To speak! It cannot be opposed to the Christmas and New Year's concentrations, your scientists and you say 'Opening'. It can't be done. All scientists came out yesterday and today, and you were licensed, the Prime Minister, for the New Year's Revenue. No, he says, we didn't say that. How do you do it? Who makes decisions? Doctors, scientists or politicians? Magorini said it: Politicians make decisions. If politicians make the decisions, do not have as an alibi and as a shield the doctors constantly because you empty them. Well, make up your mind. I would like to say something, too, which I consider to be important. Stop chasing the Church. Please very much. It grows Christian-phobia. It has been cultivated for decades of Christian life. You cultivate as a New Democracy the hunt of churches. Pappas, metropolitans are being arrested. You're chasing the faithful. Why? You tell me. Fine, he says, to a priest of 1,500 euros. All right, let me see what the Church will do now. You'll soon be arresting Jerome. Although a little hard to see, because he's in your opinion. In conclusion, I would like to say about the European Union. The fairy tale has to stop. It is a political ghost, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for us. The European Union is a political ghost, without leadership. Go back to history and see who the Heads of Europe were. You compare naturalities. Let me tell you names: Cole Mitterrand, Ziscar d'Esten! What are you talking about? Are you comparing him to Merkel now? Comparing Cole to Merkel? There are no leaderships. Unfortunately, they don't exist. The only driving force is Germany's interests. You want to tell us truths? To tell you truths. German is Europe! This is our opposition to this Europe. We want a Europe that is different, Mrs Bakoyannis. You might want German. That's your right. Or you may want it European in your mind. We want a Europe of peoples and nations, but certainly not German. Because we've become improper. We have come from the mistakes of the leaderships not to take us seriously. We went for sanctions, and we went out ragged. I don't want to expand any longer, because he's not the Prime Minister here. Only Treasury whispers for Germany various things. I see him going home in a while. They've got him on leave, too. Whoever's talking about Germany goes home. Without seriousness, without any words and deeds, a country will always have this treatment. We swallow Turkish dirt, comforted by some packages of euros. We're wrong. It's a mistake to talk about it. Do you know what Thucydides said, Mr. Colleagues? You don't complain to your enemy. You're fighting him. Thucydides. He wrote it: you fight him. Dozens of deeds, announcements, letters, protests, fourteen European Councils and nothing has changed. Not even a sanction against Turkey. The only weapon that Ellas has, and it's a nuclear weapon, is what my colleague said, and I've said it a long time ago. The veto! We'll veto that from now on every time. That's our nuclear weapon. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Only Papandreou used it in 1983. From there on, no one else. Before I finish, I want to invoke Mr. Miley. You all know Mr. Miley. He's a renowned businessman. It was at the Greek-German Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Malis isn't an accidental person. He resigned because he was dissatisfied with Germany's attitude towards Turkey's challenges. It is true that there are many people in Germany, and so do I. I have something to do with it, because that's where I was born and raised up. But he had other kinds of relationships. Serious businessman and resigned. When will Greece - and its governments - insist on meaningless, inexpensive protests? We must at some point say the known one: molecules, which means 'if you dare come and get it'! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In closing, I will say what French Fwier, a member of the French Institute for Strategic Research, said. What he said: "The mistake of France was to believe that because we supported Greeks, the Greeks would have to return our favor." We have emptyd them from the French, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth. Don't be fooled. We emptied them two and three times. That's the truth. And we waited for the French then to help us. Well, France is not a charity. Each one wants to win. And, of course, I'll tell you this to close down here. I'd like the Prime Minister to be here, but he's not. He took the Rafale, heard us, very good choice. Let's get the improved Rafale and don't protest some economists and I'll tell them something very simple. Bulgaria and Turkey will have nuclear weapons shortly. The Rafale, ladies and gentlemen, can with a slight adaptation carry nuclear warheads. If we are a serious country, and we want to prevent it, we must gradually draw up how these weapons can be made - I shall say this directly - the arrow in the way of the Turks, chauvinism, Nazism and autocracy. Let the Prime Minister think about it and say it with very relaxed tone and not imperative. I think it is the Greek Government's duty to shield itself, because we have done nothing for our defence for fifteen years. And you have a government, unfortunately, to "run" the project. It's hard. I'll be fair. Maybe impossible. So you have to go to more drastic measures. That is why I am saying nuclear warheads on these aircraft, so that we can be ready, because I do not see things very well with Turkey. In fact, I disagree with Mrs Bakoyannis with The Hague - I am very sympathetic to you - because if she does not know, I do not trust The Hague for many reasons. The first reason is that in a China and Philippines decision he took another position, Malta and Libya, he took another position. But let me tell you one more reason. Because it has Somali president, and I am very afraid that Somalia has become Turkey's colony. Where are we going with an established court in The Hague? Never in The Hague and we are ready to say the great "no" to be the winners and not the losers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u119	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u120	The government's assurances that we ate the donkey and we need to be patient just a little more to get the vaccine back and then finally return to normality, they can't stand serious criticism. Workers don't have a goldfish memory, they can judge. Your current assurances have the same credibility as the positions you made a year ago in the debate on the 2020 budget. You said at the time that the situation would be better for the workers, because the economic optimism index is constantly rising when it falls in Europe. You said that a year ago, before krone, and you said it when the Greek economy was already in slowdown. You said that when the European Union was at economic stand. You were telling them despite our constant warnings that the path of capitalist development and extroversion not only improves the lives of the people but, on the contrary, exposes the country's economy to many of the international economic crises that are coming. It could be assumed that you did not know the situation, that you and your staff were ignorant, that you had just taken over and did not know the real situation, or that you were following the renowned, known tactics of the "burned earth". That's what you're doing today. You have re-examined the country's financial data for the past few years in an attempt to claim that only the previous ones are to blame for the country's situation. "My old sieve art," of course. You all say the same. The same thing was said by SYRIZA, and the PASOK before, so did your predecessors of the New Democracy. However, the main thing is that a year ago you were consciously lying, you covered up the predictions of slowing down the international economy, the stagnation of the European Union, as well as the self-evident consequences they would have on the Greek economy. You discovered that the domestic economy was already in retreat. In fact, your assurances covered the new international capital overcompensation crisis, which had now begun and started to take place. Worldwide the central banks had returned to negative interest rates, total debt was growing, large sectors of the economy worldwide were in crisis, such as air transport. And the list could go on. International growth forecasts for 2020 spoke of strong growth essentially only in India and Brazil, predicting that the rest of the world will remain stable. Ultimately, the growth of overcompensated capital was also warning of a new, even deeper economic crisis, while, at the same time, the previous one had not even been overcome, indicating that there had not been enough capital destroyed in the period 2008-2009. And, before a paractor you're voiced, the economic crisis occurred. The emergence of COVID -19 and its management measures came to impact on an economy, in Greece and internationally, which was in an extremely weak phase, leading to the greatest post-war economic crisis. Greece's GDP declined by 8.5%, while the third quarter by 11.7% compared to the corresponding period of 2019. This reduction is expected to be added to the major immersion of 25% between 2008 and 2015. There is no need to be a special analyst to see how many years it will take to get back to the pre-crisis level. The estimates of strong Greece in 2004 were shattered in the crisis of 2008. Your estimates a year ago, when you appeared to be struggling with SYRIZA for who will be credited to the powerful Greece of 2019, were shattered with the 2020 crisis. The exact same unreliableness is your forecasts today for the recovery of 2021 that you put into your budget, which is both up-to-date and contradictory and incomprehensible. Your forecasts are the only ones that refer to a rapid recovery in 2021, in contrast to the economic forecasts of all international organisations and the common sense itself, of course. At the same time, the OECD mentioned a fall in GDP of more than 10% in 2020 and an increase of 0.9% in 2021. Because it is obvious that tourism in 2021 will grow slightly compared to 2020, but it will be too late to reach 2019 levels, because the crisis in the euro area continues. It is known that red loans to banks have multiplied and the funding you are making for their rescue again will be paid by the Greek people. Estimates for over 100 thousand small business enclosures are founded. The list of obvious findings, which are inconsistent with your prediction of a rapid reintroduction to normality, is so great that you don't get to be believed when you claim you don't see them. Do you really think you're mocking the hundreds of thousands of microprofessionals, the self-employed of focus and trade, that they'll run their shops by phone? You are truly a counterfeit of large commercial groups and your policy, taking advantage of the pandemic, has dramatic consequences for hundreds of thousands of self-employed people. To tell the truth, the policy of click away is essentially inapplicable. The many-month quarantine quarantine will have the effect of concentrating both trade and focusing on less hands. Unique relief for thousands of microprofessionals is deletion and not temporary suspension of debts. You usually answer that dealing with pandemic is the main task of the period. Yes, sir. But really, who are you going to throw ashes in the eyes? The incredible crowding in supermarkets, which, by size, cannot be aerated, is not an outbreak of virus transmission? The public transport, in which workers to go to work on each other, do not constitute a problem of overtransmission of the virus? The restaurants you've banned, you say, are an outbreak of virus transmission. But ten-hour shifts, where tens or hundreds of workers are next to each other and without protection measures, are not a problem? You were then forced to admit what we told you at the first moment, namely that workplaces are the main focus. This was in northern Greece. This is now being done in West Attica. I am tabling the official figures published in Sunday's press at the 'RIZOSOPAT' for the minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The tails of dozens or hundreds of people in the courier companies, who have left them to operate completely uncontrolled and take orders far beyond their capacity, is it not a problem? But you've been hurt by some movement of workers who make them symbolically, respectfully respecting all protection measures. Unless you tell us that the couriers are out there, so the virus is not stuck, as your Minister Mr Chrysochoidis said unregulated, commenting on the great crowd of six thousand police officers on the day of the Polytechnic, to deal with a few dozen and hundreds of citizens. Those police forces, which you instructed them to dismantle the mobilisations made in open space and with all the protection measures, as you yourself admitted, all that was not observed by the repression forces. They were seen by the pan-Hellenic. Such other ridiculous arguments have been supported, which only several extreme right-wing fascist "pads" can reproduce to justify the infamous decision - a monument of authoritarianism - for the first time since 1973 the ban on meetings over three people throughout Greece and the orgy of authoritarianism and oppression that followed. What do you think? That you will continue to legislate undisturbed anti-popular by legislative acts, with fast track procedures? You'll turn us back centuries and you won't move a leaf? As you do not inhibit your anti-linguistic work, workers' struggles are not suspended. The mask is a means of protection, it's not a murmur. You do indeed lose firmly, not to say that you have lost the basic political credibility. You now compete in untrustworthyness with SYRIZA, whose President, on the one hand, puts forward consensual solutions - ministers of common acceptance - and, on the other, tries to rally popular discontent with greedy verbal crowns of a useful final opposition. The responsibilities for the intact health system, the lack of protection measures in critical areas such as workplaces, the means of transport and the schools you keep closed, you cannot hide them under the carpet of anticipating an vaccine to finally get out of this adventure. Parts where the vaccination procedure itself for the coronary with a new vaccine for a new disease requires a developed public health system with adequate personnel for vaccination rather than "bumps" and movements. In any case, the vaccine can neither cover nor heal the enormous shortcomings in your public health system, your chronic criminal policy. For days now you have been using the issue of vaccines to strengthen your credibility. All the public debate, the Ministers' announcements, the newspaper headlines concern vaccines. Then they'll come, then we'll start, so we'll be notified, so we'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen, from the very first moment on, we have raised the strong dangerous competition for vaccines, monopolies, rather than the need for cooperation between States and their research institutes. We have shown that it must be safe and free, that its existence does not balance the shortcomings in public health and others that are right. You mean that we are vertically opposite and enemies of all these reactionary and irrational theories that obscur metaphysically overthrow the problem by plundering against the health of the people. Vaccines are useful science tools. They can help in pandemic conditions. They should be made in the population after the necessary checks on the basis of what scientists are responsible for and not on the basis of the various interests of their gods alone. However, there are some questions that we want to ask here. Why, for example, was the government not interested in the people finally having access to more vaccines that are cheaper than those for which contracts have been signed or signed? Why does not the issue of treatments and medicines which seem to have a disease-response effect? What exactly do the conventions signed by the European Union with these companies and which our group has asked the European Parliament to be given? Is the precise content of the contracts known to the Greek Government in knowledge? And if so, why hasn't he informed the parties and the relevant bodies? Since you say, like almost everyone in this Chamber, that you want mass vaccination to succeed, why do you not give a medical certificate to the right, the choice of each person to make the vaccine that his doctor appreciates? Although the theories of conspiracy that start with irrational assumptions like the previous speaker, the gentleman of Greek Solution, in order to question your own credibility, are good enough for you, as we speak. However, there is also the question that arises from a healthy basis from specific existing questions, namely that in the context of capitalism, health, medicines, vaccines are goods from which some monopolies are enriched. And here they have specific responsibilities, and the governments in which, of course, the people can have no confidence. The JRC considers that the State should be properly informed of the people, that a mass and free vaccination programme should be established with all available vaccines, provided that they receive the necessary certification, of course, in terms of their safety and effectiveness by the international and state authorities. As in the past, for example, with influenza H1N1, we are now recommending vaccination at the suggestion of the doctor to protect public health. Vaccination must be a conscious act and a requirement of the Greek people to protect their health. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that the measures for the pandemic you are taking have a clear economic footprint. They speed up the destruction of tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises so that large groups of growth in trade, focusing on tourism and transport. The mitigation of the serious consequences of the crisis through state subsidies will not be unlimited. Truly, for how long will you be able to maintain the policy of even these low-paid benefits to workers and self-employed persons who are being destroyed? Already 800 euros were converted into 534 euros. The permanent mortgages, the people that you and all the previous ones systematically face as the only "blooder" of the other national budgetary effort cannot afford to pay any more. The poverty-sharing policy is being exhausted. You come to such contradictions, which if they weren't tragic, would be comical, numbered for inspections. A characteristic is the example of your announcement of an allowance to unemployed scientists, hiding that you break the money and the allowance pay again from their reserves. Now you tell them the money isn't enough for everyone, and you ask them to set the same criteria, who will get the allowance and who won't. You're trying to sow social cannibalism, because you think that's how you stand. Your attitude is at least a disgrace. As for the unemployed, what did we tell you? A one-off allowance of EUR 600 has been proposed that you give all the unemployed, without conditions and conditions, and even that you refused, as if the state budget would fall out and the state funds would eat. You are now appearing as the manager of a large state package, the most famous sum of EUR 70 billion. And in a really rare irony of luck, you have SYRIZA to blame you for being neoliberal, you don't know how to manage state intervention measures in the best way. Precisely, of course, as you accused SYRIZA that his left-wing obsessions did not let him manage the restrictive liberal - as you said - economic policy of the period, as you should. But the truth is different. You are both government managers of the respective priorities and interests of big capital and you have absolutely no struggling. Use the management mixture that the capitalist evolution of the period needs each time. Today, the crisis in the European Union and internationally requires expansional management, of course, with a knot approach. The European Union's funds and state resources will not fall in general and vaguely into the economy, nor will these packages constitute a progressive prologue turn of the European Union, as you say. In other words, we see what happens with AEGEAN, Piraeus Bank and various television channels. They will support the reorientation of the expensive 'green' energy and the so-called 'digital transformation'. They are not intended to raise the lives and living standards of the people. They're aiming to support the capital. All that remains for the people is that they will be invited to pay for the 'woven' of state borrowing in the next period. The state debt has erupted over 200% of GDP and the problem of repayment is becoming more and more difficult. Really, if growth is finally on the way, how will the domestic economy pay a government debt that will remain above 200%, when, because of growth, interest rates will again begin to increase and the costs of its refinancing will again be taken care of? You are neither the class that you represent ignorant. You know the problems very well. You know the inherent contradictions, the problems of the reproduction of capital itself. That's why your one-way drive is the attack on working class, the cheapest labour force in all possible ways. This is the main axis of your policy on competitiveness and it seems really everywhere. The budget of 2021 and the estimates of how you managed the 2020 crisis as recorded in it is a monument of anti-gravity against workers. In 2020, low corporate taxation fell almost halfway through. In time and with all governments big capital pays just 5% of total government revenue. In 2020, business taxation appears to be reduced by 40%. What other witnesses do we have to show the anti-popular character of the budget every year, to show who pays the crisis? For 2021 the budget submitted what brings it? Indirect taxes amounting to 56% of tax revenue, even greater than in the past, a drastic increase in the taxation of workers of EUR 3.5 billion compared with 2020, which will kneel down the workers who wait in 2021 to take a breath. In addition, anti-grassina is not limited to the 2020 budget. Your medium-term design now has another name. His name is not "memorandum" and "memorandum commitments" as you called him in previous years with SYRIZA and KINAL. Now you call it the 'Pissaridis Plan'. In fact, in your attempt to appear as the best manager of civil power, you can literally not hold. First of all, you say that this report is an intergroup text of experts, just to fill out how you are already implementing half of what it says. Who's the centre of the axis? One insistence that the economic outward line is the direction in which the country must move, increasing exports to both tourism and industrial production. It's not a remnant of the New Democracy, as you say, gentlemen of SYRIZA. It's just insistence on the same axis that led the country to a new deep-seated crisis. Nor is it the lack of empathy, as you say from the New Democracy side. The New Democracy is fully aware of the mission entrusted to it by the capital as it had previously entrusted to you. What does the Pissaridis plan say? It speaks of a great reduction in small businesses, which means a proletarianisation of self-employed small entrepreneurs, which the European Union and BSE permanently blame as poverty among the nations. And, of course, it speaks of escalating the policy of the cheaper labour force, that is, another reduction in labour income. Why are you hiding? Why don't you boldly tell the workers that what is called the cheapest labour force is ultimately a prerequisite for increasing capitalist investment? And that is why investment wants profits and profits want cheap work, but why also why the report's central objective itself, namely to increase investment significantly from 12% to 24% of GDP, if it does not increase the profits of large capital? The increase in profits as a percentage of GDP how will it be if workers' wages are not reduced as a percentage of GDP? This is the policy of the Pissaridis report, the policy of the cheapest labour force with the main focus of the new round of attack on insurance rights, the increase of workers' tax to reduce capital, the promotion of State reforms for the benefit of again capital, the new reduction of health benefits, education, social protection to promote these investments. You're almost telling the truth. The Pissaridis project is not a cross-party text, it's just super-party. It concerns all the political forces which, when needed by the country, also a memorandum. The strategic conception of New Democracy and SYRIZA and other parties in and out of this Chamber - other than KKE - is now so obvious that it takes a magnifying lens to detect differences, as some are trying to hide behind words, as Alexis of the well-known old song was hiding! That is why SYRIZA has so much difficulty building a convincing dividing line towards New Democracy. That is why you and you of the New Democracy and you of SYRIZA often resort to the well-known "calls" of the micropolitical you are launching for each other for disorientation of the Greek people. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] New Republic and SYRIZA swear on the European Union's 'green' development policy in the famous 'Green New Deal'. Unfortunately, you too have your illusions. Do you really think that he can really manage the overcompensation of capital such a solution? A few years to give. You agree on the substance of the budget, in the direction of taxation against workers for the benefit of the groups, with huge indirect taxes, by means of tax bleeding, tax bleeding of workers, aggressive hunting of the so-called tax evasion of the populace, overcrowding for the people, with the only change that you make to be a little in proportion. Your strategic partnership to reduce taxation, for permanent tax relief for large capital is stable. SYRIZA first reduced the dividend tax, i.e. the profits of the big shareholders, and New Democracy further reduced them. That is why, even when we raised a question of abolishing their constitutional safeguards with Article 107, New Democracy and SYRIZA, you refused that, in fact, by showing very great zeal. You are fully involved in the dismantling of social costs, even using the same tool of targeted benefits against extreme poverty and the integration of benefits into one. It is not social policy to reduce benefits by baptizing them all together as a minimum guaranteed income. It's a conscious attempt to deception that won't finally pass. You also get involved in health. For the tragic situation of the ESS today, New Democracy and SYRIZA, you are finally co-workers. The drastic cuts that have been made over the past five years have been signed by all those who have ruled the country. Even worse, in SYRIZA's so-called eloquent words about the importance of public health in a period of health crisis, his own political concept of health is translated, a logic that wants public health to take on difficults and leave private business to function, where profit is, of course, very high. The pandemic in our country, where we measure thousands of cases and hospitals, hundreds of people persecuted and dozens dead, stripped your health policy, a policy that all of the governments so far followed: degradation, commercialisation of the public system for the sake of some health businessmen, who, even in the pandemic, continue to treasure. None of you can show up as innocent pigeon. Because the ten thousand dismantled beds, the public hospitals that closed because you said they were counterproductive, cost-effective, closed beds for years, the downgraded to non-existent primary health care, the subordinated health care centers and hospitals, have the signature of all of you and the New Democracy and the KINAL - of PASOK before - and of SYRIZA. Your policy has shaped a degraded, merchandise system in which two diseases do not fit. And while the public system is falling apart, not only are you taking no substantial measures to actually strengthen it, but you are also tabling a budget in which health expenditure is falling further. Such hypocrisy! At the same time, you are booming with coarse subsidies, aid to big companies, private companies, in the name of their salvation from the consequences of the pandemic. This is another proof of what your priorities are, how deeply anti-popular your policy is. The health of the people cannot be a merchandise and it is an essential condition for this to be an exclusively public health system. That is the requirement of our times. And, Mr Varoufakis, it turns out once again that at critical times you propose things deliberately or unwittingly - it does not matter - that sustain disorientation from the real cause of the problems. Today you have come out and proposed a debt review committee that will examine the period from post-Multipulation. The simplest one anyone could tell you is why from the post-Culture and then just. Why, for example, is the junta season outside? In fact, I have heard Mr Velopoulos, who hastened to support your proposal. Why are the decades outside and the '50s and the '60s with the privileges given then to the great shipowner and foreign capital? Our party has a political view of all this and how it has contributed to overcompensation. We can, if you want, give it to you. This political assessment is a matter of a committee of inquiry with New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, as you suggest? The most important thing, of course, is another. It is the irresistible, disorientative theory that the capitalist crisis and debt creates them a mismanagement. This very convenient theory system and its governments, in essence, are adopting this proposal as well. Ladies and gentlemen, the capitalist development, which you see, wants constant sacrifices only for the people. The increase in productivity, which you want, leads within this system only to the evacuation of unemployment. Even the Pissaridis report admits it when it says that the introduction of new automation technologies will lead to a reduction in manufacturing employment. Today, more than ever, there is a substantial, universal reduction in working time, but without a reduction in pay, so that working time reflects also increased productivity. This fundamental problem cannot be solved by the development you are evangelizing, precisely because it is actually outside the system itself. The reduction in working time reduces profits, reduces the competitiveness of large capital. That is why the development project of capitalism in our country for the next decade has a profound anti-grassroot. It provides for low wages, a concentration of production with the destruction of small businesses, a dismantling of any social conquests that have remained, more and more tax burdens on workers in popular strata. Your policy today is an organic follow-up to the policy that SYRIZA and PASOK have carried out in previous years. SYRIZA may be in vain trying to get out of it, but you don't have any complaints. He left you and he left you ready, such as - for example - the so-called defensive agreement with the United States. You, too, build on the policy of NATO and the US signifier in the region, on cooperation with Israel and on various other so-called democratic regimes in the region. In fact, you have thought of how ridiculous it has become to penalize a lack of democracy in various states around the world - both as the European Union and as a country - and, at the same time, to have close alliances with states whose political status literally belongs to a family that directly exercises power, not even the formal civil, parliamentary procedures. Your policy in the Eastern Mediterranean is turning the country literally into NATO's bravo, except that your allies - the European Union, the United States, have close economic and military relations with Turkey and give it all in order to keep it at all costs in the Euro-Atlantic camp. On this basis, negotiations and bargaining are taking place, and on this basis the Turkish Government is playing. Of course, you also participate in these bazaars, like the previous ones, because, unfortunately, you have the geostrategic upgrading, as you say, of the ruling class, that is, its involvement - as we call it - in the sharing of prey in the region, but at the expense of the people's real interests. You came back empty-handed from the summit. All those who present them as the guarantors of peace and sovereign rights of Greece and Cyprus, all they do is give the "green light" to the aggression of Erdogan, the Turkish government. The excuses that the decision of the summit awaits the new US government do not stand, since the Americans take the same stand. Appropriate plans and their own interests are served. The renewal and strengthening of the Greek-American agreement on military bases, the great expenditure on naval equipment, the commitment to a Patriot missile array mission in Saudi Arabia, but also the mission of military forces to Mali, Africa, raise the risks for our people. In fact, you are making use of the tension with Turkey to convince that new equipment is necessary for defence, hiding that when we talk about equipment, we are talking about great business but also about geostrategic interests. Would you like us to remind you, for example, of Germany's reactions to the French well market with the bonds won by Greece as a return from the European Central Bank? Have you forgotten the competitions around the US F-35 or European Eurofighter market in the name of boosting the European war industry against the US? Or the navy reactions that Russian S-300 supplies a few years ago? The main thing, however, is that this armament package does not prioritise the defence of the people and of the country, the defence of sovereign rights. On the contrary, it aims to support dangerous US and NATO designs and the European Union in the South-East Mediterranean, the Balkans, the Middle East. The same goal is served by the structure, the provision of the Greek Armed Forces, which, especially in recent years, have been carried out with strict naval criteria against both the militant children of our people and our country. To tell us, what interests is the participation of Greek Armed Forces in naval missions thousands of kilometres away from the country, in states that have been levelled by other interventions and where the flame of war remains on? What interests does the design serve to send Greek french to the Persian Gulf and to join Iran's multi-ethnic encircling force for the leadership of which the US and European forces are struggling, such as France and Germany? How exactly is the country's defence of civilian personnel missions to Libya, Iraq, Mali, as a procurer of the mission and military forces? What interests is education served by Israeli Air Force in scenarios simulating attack on strategic infrastructure in Iran? What interests do the conversion of strategic military facilities and infrastructures of Greece serve in the war bastions of the Americans and the availability of all camps for NATO needs, as foreseen by the Greek American military agreement? What exactly does it offer the security of our people every year by 2% of GDP, namely billions of euros, for military spending on involvement in NATO operations? What exactly does the country's use of defence industrial infrastructure, such as shipyards and EAA, by American and naval interests monopolies, serve in the name of allegedly remedial and rescue? Unfortunately, organisation, orientation, priority naval planning, deepen the country's dangerous plans and competition, with painful consequences for the safety of our people, for sovereign rights, as the developments in Greek-Turkish are showing. The same goes for equipment. The defence of sovereign rights presupposes the removal of such naval doctrines, of such designs, from missions all over the world. Only in this way can there be effective defence of both peace and security for all the peoples of the region, shielding Greece's sovereign rights and defence. Your system has rotted, it can no longer cope with the elementary requirements of modern life. Traded health is charged with millions of dead all over the planet. The lack of health infrastructure for the people, the few doctors, the lack of IF is the other side of the cheap and consumable labour force. Trading education requires huge expenses for the people's family and is finally becoming a kind of luxury. Ensuring quality food, even a permanent roof, is a summer night dream for workers' masses in Greece and around the world. The nightmare of capitalism for the people is not, however, in our view a one-way path. It is the people who produce all the social wealth. They cannot continue to measure their wounds, to calculate what need they will sacrifice to shield the profits of the few, the great capital. They have another choice in front of them. They may choose another way, a radically different path, that of socialised property, the concentrated means of production, the scientific central economic planning. Only on this radically different path does the rise in productivity lead to a reduction in working time and an increase in the quality of working time. Only this radically different path can develop and use new technologies, such as digital communications, to improve people's lives, unlike the digital repression you bring us. Only this radical change of course can guarantee that hospitals will have ICUs, MRIs, free drugs, because their health and infrastructures will not be goods. The path you follow, as illustrated by the new state budget, brings more poverty, unemployment, along with exhausting hours for those who are lucky to work, brings dead from a lack of infrastructure in hospitals, digital repression to reap the profits, military involvements for the interests of your allies. The really new one is not the technological modernisation of the old rotten system of capitalism. People's indignation can be turned into rage, into a popular need that will eventually overthrow him. You know, you do everything you can to stop the move of history to the really new and hopeful. The watch of history, fortunately, is not broken. He may have delayed a little, lost his rate temporarily, but he will move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u121	And we thank Mr. Koutsuba.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I have spoken less than everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u123	Not much of it! Mrs Fotini Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, is then called at the Stepma for her budget speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Christmas, New Year's Day, the holidays that are coming, will not be like any other time. The Greek people have had a hard time. The pandemic threatens our lives, our health and the problems are constantly expanding in the economy. These are difficult days for businesses, for professionals, for workers, for farmers, for the unemployed. Greek society now has quite different feelings than in the first wave of pandemic in spring. Then they all had the optimism that we'll make it, that we'll soon get through the problems at work, at the store, at the workplace, that they'll get through it. Today the citizen sees that the New Democracy Government has been weak and unable to limit tension, confront, delay this second wave of pandemic. It was incapable of substantially supporting the national health system and its people. It was weak to protect northern Greece in particular, and I say that because of the land borders. He was unable to support workers and businesses, to support retailing and catering, to prevent locking and redundancies, to stop first home auctions, to take effective measures to keep society up and alive. This insecurity and uncertainty about tomorrow are being strengthened. And it is a very bad pretext for the future of the country this whole negative climate and, of course, for the credibility of political life itself. In order to cover its responsibilities, its mistakes and its omissions, the government is constantly lagging behind in authoritarianism and attempting to control media communication. She only wants her voice to sound. She's trying to hide her failure with propaganda. Lying and exaggerating baptism baptizes "the voice of truth". It is no longer visible that the New Democracy Government cannot give the solutions that the Greek society needs. Its policy closes the prospect of a future of democracy, sustainable development and social protection. 'Cause that's the three-dimensional part that the place needs. Citizens have nothing to expect from them. Nothing about the economy, nothing about health. Mr. Mitsotakis now, ahead of the vaccine that, they say, will solve everything, return to his well-known remnant, which he admitted. Listen, we were the first to highlight and stress the need for vaccination. In fact, we had made the proposal too early to give us, the political leaders, a good example with our own participation. But, ladies and gentlemen, it will take months to work on the vaccine, to see its results, and in the medium term the virus will be here. And not only will he be here, his consequences will be here, i.e. the threat will remain active. So we have a long way to go, and we cannot stay inactive, just to monitor developments and every day to have losses in human lives. The pandemic is at a turning point. A concrete roadmap is now necessary for the next steps to tackle the pandemic so that we can avoid new errors from now on and have the best possible effect. We asked you, Prime Minister, to come to the House and tell us what your plan is, how you intend to deal with things from now on and until we see the results of the vaccination. But you've been battling. You chose not to come and answer the question I tabled. You prefer the barren controversy - your right - you prefer the safety of the announcements, the professions and your own final monologue. So I will tell you that our road map, the one we propose, has four milestones. We're starting with the need for safe space opening. I really do not understand why we need to have horizontal universal policies across Greece. Not all regions have the same problem. How is that possible? On the basis of, of course, the full epidemiological picture of each area which is obtained by mass and repeated tests. Thus, we can gradually liberalise social and economic activities that have been limited. The tests should be carried out with care for primary health care with mobile workshops, with dates or even at home. The second milestone is about open epidemiological data. There has been a great deal of discussion on this issue. Decisions on the gradual opening of areas require an integrated, reliable case register and accessibility to epidemiological data. And so, if you want, the necessary trust and credibility are built. The third milestone is the restoration structures. You know that there are problems and complications with people coming out of hospitals, and at the moment there is no provision at all. Rehabilitation structures must therefore be created, which must be supported by a multidisciplinary group. We're waiting for your announcements. The fourth milestone is obviously vaccination. The crucial issue is, of course, the adequate and timely supply of vaccines in consultation with the European Union, the proper preparation for vaccination and the transparent process. We want you to give us all the centres you're planning. Where will it be? We want to know who's gonna do the vaccination. We want to know in writing the order of priority for vaccination, because it is not enough to say'sensitive groups', but you must describe all this in order to be clear, to be familiar with everyone. And, of course, the population information campaign, a campaign that this time cannot have the logic of the Petsa list, a campaign in which you must make use of both experts and universities and medical clubs. The strengthening of the National Health System by means of the permanentisation of all ancillary personnel who are aware of the functioning of the system, such as, of course, the practical recognition of the very great supply of health by integrating them into heavy and unhealthy. I would stress here, Prime Minister, that there is now the agreement of the relevant committee of the Ministry of Health. Also, giving a Christmas gift is and remains an urgent priority. And one more thing we have a debt. Sanitaries are being lost in this battle, on duty, having been infected by the virus in the hospitals. It is therefore time to look at these cases as an accident at work. There is a legislative gap. And it makes sense that there is a legislative gap, because so far we have not dealt with similar situations. However, we are here to solve these problems, to cover the gaps, and we must show sensitivity and reflexes for both people and the memory of those who have left for both their families and those who have complications and can then face problems in their work. So insurance and pensions, like those who have an accident at work, should be treated. We're waiting for your answers. I hope you'll respond. I come to national issues, because there is a negative development here too. The case of sanctions against Turkey by the European Council has resulted in a fiasco for Europe and defeat for the government and the Prime Minister personally. Neither mild nor cruel sanctions are imposed and everything is mentioned in the future. You told us afterward that it was not an end in itself. Then why did you put all the paperwork in this case? Why have you and the Minister consumed so much diplomatic energy and effort? Instead of taking steps forward, Europe, unfortunately, is taking steps back. Behind the decisions of the previous Council, the October one. Europe's reluctance to take the necessary measures even now will devastate Turkey even further. The truth is that the government has shown its complete inability to defend national interests in Brussels, instead of the Prime Minister confessing to the Greek people the truth and taking responsibility for it, he tried to define the situation and the results. The lack of determination and lasting retreat are the ones that have led us to this end. The government does not have a clear strategy on Turkey. That's what we pay. Turkey's attitude is not a matter of conduct. We've been through this too many times. It is about its new review strategy, which we have asked you many times to discuss at the level of the Political Heads of State, to agree on how to deal with it and what the national line will be against this new Turkey strategy. But you refused it, taking full responsibility for the manoeuvres. Mr Mitsotakis, as much as you are trying to hide your defeat with propaganda, you failed in Brussels. And you failed because you did not have a clear strategy for Turkey, because you did not set clear red lines and specific targets, because you did not finally work on sanctions systematically, because you did not send a message of determination to safeguard our sovereignty and our sovereign rights to Turkey and to our partners. I really hope that no negative statements by Ministers have been repeated when our potential rights of sovereignty have been violated, such as those for the twelve miles. And, of course, I insist that it is inconceivable that our country should be drawn into a dialogue with Turkey on anything other than the establishment of the EEZ and the continent. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the question of the economic policy of the Government, as is reflected in the budget of 2021. Two basic objectives should be the objectives of the economy today. The first is to tackle the crisis by supporting effectively workers and businesses. The second is to create conditions by making use of all the possibilities for productive reconstruction in the country, for growth, for creating new jobs, for transition to the digital and green economy. Are these objectives being pursued with the budget and the financial decisions which the government has so far taken? The answer is a clear 'no'. The government's budget is out of place. It's a virtual reality. The truth is that the negative effects of the pandemic, the new lockdown and the inability of the government are already visible and particularly pressing in the economy. The recession reaches two-digit numbers. The public debt will reach 209% of GDP. The deficits are swelling. The turnover on the market decreased by 50 billion euros. The new generation of red loans is threatening. Liquidity programmes are announced, but small and medium-sized ones see banks supporting only large and powerful customers, always with the government's tolerance. Labour rights are being destroyed. Workers only in the first months of 2020 lost 10% of their income during the GFCM. Does anyone really think that under these circumstances we will have a growth rate of 4.8% in 2021 in a country which - unfortunately, I am saying - is currently under Somalia, Cambodia and Uganda in the convenience of business and lastly among the OECD countries in the relevant indicator? In a country where, with your policy, there has been a significant reduction in investment before the coronary pandemic broke out, even since 2019? With what investments after all? The ones you are proclaiming and do not exist, such as the strategic investor of the Scaramaga Shipyards promised by Mr Mitsotakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and tabled a buy-out proposal instead of a lentil plate for just 15 million euros? You are relying on the assumption that they will influencing EUR 3.9 billion in total from the Recovery Fund, which just unblocked the day before yesterday. It is clear that the first disbursement is likely to take place after the first semester. Does anyone really think that tax revenues will increase by 8.1%? Who's gonna pay more? Can we take a look at them in turn? The professionals, the self-employed who are already requesting a haircut of their obligations? Businesses - and especially small and medium-sized enterprises - at risk of lock-up immediately? The hundreds of thousands of workers living with 534 euros? 800 is a past. They haven't even been in place for a month. It turned out to be 640 euros and returned to 534 euros. Will farmers and farmers who have been completely abandoned, who have not even received compensation for their destruction from the ELGA? Overdue debts in the tenth month increased by 4.9 billion euros, with five hundred thousand new debts in one month, in October. These are elements of the AIA, not mine. The overall expenditure shortfall for 2020 exceeds EUR 8 billion. It's older than the years of the memorials. Do you ignore it? We have new red loans to reach EUR 10 billion. That is why I ask again: who will ultimately pay, gentlemen of the government? Does anyone really think that the EUR 3 billion planned to deal with the pandemic in 2021 will meet all the needs? How? Only the returnee in January will reach 1.5 billion euros. With the rest, therefore, special-purpose compensation, suspensions of contracts, unemployment benefits, the payment of a rent to owners of property, should also be paid. The National Health System should be supported. We're not done with the pandemic. There must be measures to stimulate liquidity, to transfer professionals' obligations. How's all this going to happen? The budget for 2021 provides for a zero increase in the repayable advance - only for the regions something is falsifying - no special-purpose compensation, no liquidity provision on the market. Does anyone think that January and February will all work as if nothing happened at all? Will the economy be opened by magic? Either way, this account doesn't come out! Does anyone really think that unemployment will be drastically reduced? Do you really close your eyes? Don't you see the padlocks and redundancies coming? Do you know where we're going? You have been unable to use even the European Union's funds from the 'SURE' programme. Countries with an equivalent population and with less unemployment have taken advantage of them twice over Portugal and three times over Belgium by Greece. I would say that the government's budget reflects and serves its conservative economic policy. He's socially unfair and, in fact, anti-developmental. The evidence speaks for itself. The New Democracy has allowed banks to do what they want, so that liquidity in the market is directed mainly at large businesses. Listen to the numbers, because they are very characteristic: a million small businesses employing 88% of the workers only received EUR 1.3 billion. Three hundred large businesses employing 12% of the employees received 3.7 billion euros. What other comment do we need to make? All for the great and powerful. Small and medium-sized enterprises in Kaidas. First it was the focus, now it's the retail trade. They discovered up to the click away, which in fact favours only very large businesses. And why did they remember that? Because the courier fell apart and the big companies were looking for a way to sell their goods. So the client has to go pick it up on his own. Only 15% of enterprises in the retail trade can participate in the e-shop. Literally, the death of the merchant! The follow-up will be even worse, as the new bankrupt comes, first home auctions and payments of around EUR 2.5 billion for ENPI and taxes. Here we are, and we'll talk about it again. I come in the relationship between indirect and direct taxes, the very indication of social injustice. What's he doing? It's getting worse. Within five years he arrived from 1.15 to 1.5. Even worse, the budget provides that citizens should pay 16% higher VAT in 2021. In addition, the unfair tax allocation is even worsening in 2021 than the abolition of the solidarity levy only for incomes derived from private economic activity, with the exception of pensioners and public sector employees. They, obviously, are possessors and possessors for the government! Social costs are cut. Expenditure on insurance funds is reduced by EUR 1.7 billion, by EUR 1 billion in the OAED, by EUR 100 million for EEA sickness benefits. Costs are reduced even for primary health care. There is no hope that this wasteful primary health care will be set up, and the National Health System in 2021 will have to go through with the same amounts that it took last year and less staff. They hired everyone they needed. We said last time here that we will soon export, because we have so many doctors and nurses, we don't know what to do with them. That's what the government supports. Air words for a new ERC. Every time the pandemic wave comes dynamically, a new ERS appears in the vocabulary and in essence, in practice, absolutely nothing. You plan to hand it over to the great private interests, which in every way, even in the pandemic, you tried to support. I continue with social costs and injustices. There are three hundred and fifty thousand outstanding pensions. The number of outstanding pensions increased and increased for your days. In other words, there are three hundred thousand people waiting to see this deserted pension from the famous digital state of New Democracy. Three hundred and forty-five thousand unemployed registered in the OAS remain out of aid, because the aid does not cover all the people who are registered for long-term unemployed in the OAS. I said before that labour rights are being violated, wages are being reduced, so that the doctrine of 'half the wage - half the work' can be applied as much as possible. The foodstuff contract is not declared compulsory for one year. Now they're going to start the debate on the next one. Speaking here, too. In the air, four hundred thousand employees in food and tourism. Listen to this, because we must also show humanity: seasonal tourism workers are at risk of staying in the holidays, Prime Minister, and I have asked for your personal intervention - without any income, because by decision of the competent ministers there is a transition from 534 to the unemployment benefit, but the OAED in these circumstances wants more than forty to sixty days so that it can pay back this money. This means that about eighty-five thousand people and their families, who may have worked for two months only in this year, without their responsibility, will be without any income in the holidays. Can't this transition take place after? Can't you find a fair solution to support these people? I continue with tourism, because the hoteliers who started the negotiations on the new sector are now calling for 20% reductions. So, all the costs of tourism will be borne by the workers who have already paid for all these years with unemployment and poverty benefits? You abolished the ELTA Work Organisation. We're not impressed because this isn't the first time you've done this. Similar arrangements were made in PPC. Lead to two-speed workers. Cheap and devalued work, poverty benefits and workers without dignity. Farmers are abandoned in their luck. There is no substantial support for the affected, no care for low prices and undisposed products. It is a huge problem with indisposed products and we are calling out from Easter that at least some things can be bought by the state and given to vulnerable groups, to groups that are in great need right now. The advance tax payment is maintained, no refund of excise duty on oil is envisaged again. No care to reduce production costs. There is no provision for their access to adequate funding and we learn that there are pensioners without pensions since 2016. Even your own MPs are in excruciating condition. Ask them to tell you if you don't want to hear us. I now come to the crucial issue of the recovery fund. It is good that the compromise has been reached within the European Council and that the funds are finally being unblocked. However, I would like to make it clear that we disagree with the draft of the government, we disagree with its content and direction. The government did not even set its plan in dialogue with the social partners and the parties, despite the fact that the length of the project exceeds its term of office and should do so. Its project merely summarizes the guidelines of the European Union. So we specifically disagree, why? For it is not, first of all, a comprehensive plan for the future of the country. Because, while it speaks of the objective of increasing per capita GDP - which, obviously, no one can disagree with - forgets that from the benefit of growth, it must be redistributed with redistribution policies to reduce the social inequalities that have been widened over all these years of the crisis and continue to expand now, due to the effects of pandemic. Because, while it talks about changes in tax rates, it forgets every reference to their progressiveity, but also to the taxation of the great wealth. For it only supports growth among the great and powerful, forgetting the many, the small and the medium-sized, as if it were all the small and medium-sized in this place. For there is a lack of proof of the measures on social protection and ensuring social cohesion. Because it is moving on the road towards a levelling-up of labour rights, with the complete weakening of contracts, with proposals to liberalise redundancies and a tire. Because it insists on the perception that it wants the state's suffocating control, but why? To create new customer relationships everywhere. But, at the same time, it refuses public investment, for example, for the National Health System and the social infrastructure that are falling apart, because all over the last few years the Public Investment Programme has been constantly being snatched by the previous government. We have already presented our own plan, an alternative proposal for a new change. The resources of the Recovery Fund are largely directed at productive investments and incentives. We believe that the only way forward is to emphasise the transition to the digital and green economy, but how? Because it's important to talk about the terms. Production at our place and exports. It cannot be Greece alone to consume and import from very large companies. Our proposals, which are the result of dialogue with the social partners and also with productive bodies, direct the resources available on four axes. The first axis concerns immediate measures, because very simply tomorrow cannot be built on ruins. We therefore propose very specific interventions to make use of this part of the EUR 37 billion reserve, to which the Prime Minister himself referred in a speech, which comes from the overtaxation of the citizens, but also from the loans that your government has taken. We therefore propose that there should be a new programme of repayable advance payments for 2021, at least equal to that for 2020, that 100% of the insurance contributions be paid to the firms affected, with a clause on the maintenance of jobs and respect for labour rights, that there should be a suspension until May of the obligations of businesses and professionals and brave treatment of accumulated debts. It's time to talk about this huge problem. Debtburn - we are making a first proposal for a dialogue - 30% and the removal of fines and surcharges for consistent and redemption arrangements with a hundred and twenty instalments. To suspend, obviously, the application of bankruptcy and first home auctions and workers who are suspended from taking 100% of their wages, with a limit of EUR 1,000. Workers need dignity within the crisis. Unemployment benefit for all registered unemployed in the OAED. I described before that there are thousands of those left apart from any support, hundreds of thousands. To include farmers and livestock farmers affected by support measures and to pay immediately the compensation due. The second axis concerns the interventions needed to relaunch the economy, because it is important from where we are today to finally take the lead. How? By reducing the tax burden on enterprises, the medium-sized and the self-employed and, of course, strong incentives linked to investment and new jobs, not just dividends and profits of shareholders. Thirdly, public investment in support of infrastructure and social protection, development-related infrastructure and the welfare state. Above all, we need to support the regeneration of the National Health System and the e-government and the digitisation of the state, for the service of citizens and businesses and, of course, for strengthening civil protection and public security, especially with the problems that we see already creating climate change in our country. It is not possible to run behind developments every time. The fourth axis concerns investments in the production reconstruction of technologically modern, economically viable and economically viable, with an export orientation that creates new jobs, with industrial strengthening, new forms of tourism, support and transformation of small and medium-sized enterprises and not their acquisition by the large, investment in primary production, of course with large growth poles in each region of the country that would involve local economies and smaller businesses. We need three conditions: to fight to eliminate the objectives of the unbearable surpluses for our country, to apply to us that, for the other countries of the European Union, together with the other countries of the South, we must press on with the smooth management of the large public debt over the long term and, finally, we must finally get control of the Overseas in our country so that the resources for growth, the environment and insurance can be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, today's economic reality is the direct projects to support businesses and workers, the plan to manage the resources of the European Recovery Fund and of course the state budget for 2021. The political choices of the New Democracy Government in all three areas I described show its preservative path, its real face. We are both ideologically and politically opposed. We are therefore voting against the 2021 budget. We are voting against this policy which leads to a regression and a new dead end. We shall be voting in favour of defensive expenditure. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] As we have shown since last year that the government has reduced them, in this critical period of national affairs, these costs must be increased. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not waited for this year's budget to see what aspect and with what policies it governs the country. It took only a few months to transform this blatant reform into arrogance, inefficiency, into divisive policies that eventually divide Greek society. With this year's budget, however, the extended honeymoon for this government is closed because the citizens now know and see it. They appreciate the work of government every day, locked in their homes, silent by insecurity and buffalo by the lamentation for them or for what they lose. I do not know if in Maximus you feel the silent anger that accumulates against your Government. You're hiding behind SYRIZA's convenient opposition. You are setting up cockfighting, throwing the ball at the platform, discussing other issues, extinguishing every voice and opinion that criticizes you and makes you a substantial opposition. The situation in the media is challenging. I don't say it, the workers say it, the journalists themselves. Mercy now with this bluntness for authority! Enough! I understand there are a lot of circles struggling to keep this convenient for them two-partyism. And within it they would very much like to join as a satellite or a supplement to the Change Movement. "Or you will play our game or fight you," that's the message. But happily and happily for us and happily for the country. More and more Greeks realise that what the country needs today is a strong, progressive opposition and, tomorrow, when political correlations are reordered, an effective, progressive government. The power for us comes from the bottom up and comes, indeed. It comes from the people who are tested and not from the elite with whom you cooperate. Through this unprecedented trial, our proposal expresses itself as the only credible hope for Greek society to resurface its legs firmly, strong, autonomous, proud, not only for what it has achieved but also for what it can achieve in the future. Your intention, Mr Mitsotakis, is to create a society divided with the few in front and the many in the gala. Our promise is not to leave anyone exposed, to be against what keeps the country down, to what prevents this society from breathing. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The new change, ladies and gentlemen, progressive governance, the new page for the country is not a wish, it becomes a social demand, which is not just undone by memories but above all hope. From the hope of the Greek people to live again days of prosperity, peace and pride, national pride, which only with PASOK and progressive party felt in the past decades and in this social demand the Change Movement is ready to respond. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Alexis Tsipras, the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the Chief of Staff. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with interest to the end of Mrs Gennimata's speech, where she concluded - among other things, the need to have - after changing the relationships, of course, that is reasonable for everyone to expect it for their party as well - another government to have the progressive government in the country. I think that is reasonable. Why? Because if I were to find a word to describe not only the budget, to describe the management of all the critical issues of the period concerning citizens - both the pandemic and the economy and the national issues - to describe the government as a whole, that word would be one: failure, ladies and gentlemen. You failed, Mr. Mitsotakis. You failed to deal with the pandemic. You have failed to support the economy and the workers, the small and medium-sized ones in particular, in support of society. You have failed to deal with our critical national issues. You have failed even in the good management of public finances, at a time of great anxiety for all Greek citizens. And not only did you fail but, apparently, you have lost control at a very critical moment for the country. And that, you know, he's not hiding either with propaganda or with cheap diversions or tricks. In the last few days, however, as much as you yourself and top government officials have appeared in the public speech as if you have lost them completely and dangerously, I would say, lost. You appear, with one reason that gives the impression that you are out of reality, dragging behind the doctrine of "seeing and doing", which in cases of crisis, such as the ones that the country is experiencing at this time, ensures one thing: one failure to succeed the other and possibly even greater, so that your failure tends to turn into a tragedy for thousands of people. It is shocking how far out of reality you and your ministers seem to be, but, as well as many of your Members who went up to this Step, how much you don't feel about what the overwhelming majority of the Greek people live and experience the country. You act like you live in another country, as if you are ruling another country. You speak from this step, most of the Ministers and Members of Parliament, as if we were discussing another country's budget or the 2001 budget, and not the 2021 budget, as if we had no daily, since mid-November, a hundred-mile of the dead, as if we had no armies of unemployed and precarious workers, as if we did not expect - if we do not already have thousands of "lukes" on the market, as if you did not just return from Brussels with the country's greatest diplomatic failure in recent years and, indeed, after a six-monthly escalation of the challenges on Turkey's side. You will allow me to begin with this, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm glad you're back. Because your Government representative had said, some time ago, that if you do not get sanctions that will be ‘bite’, you would not come back, you would stay in Brussels. It was when he said, and you said other than what you said today. You did not say that sanctions were neither a purpose nor an end in itself. It was then that you celebrated, after the October summit, that in December the European Union will put a brake on Turkey's provocativeness. And December came, and you didn't just cross the bar, but you didn't even get close to the bar, you didn't even attempt to cross the bar. And when you came out of this summit, you gave the impression that you were in another session, not in that particular session. In Greece, too, with the pandemic, open to Europe with Turkey and our critical national issues. And instead of telling the Greek people a few words about what is really happening, as I believe your Minister of Foreign Affairs actually tried to do this the other day, from this step to the House, what did you tell us? You told us there was a small step forward. No step forward was taken. On the contrary, huge steps have been taken backwards. Yesterday you told us that Turkey is isolated, and today you come to tell us that it was no other way than that of this association of powers, rather - very much - that Erdogan is like the pandemic and the economic crisis, it is like a natural disaster, which cannot be prevented and avoided. But when we, Mr Mitsotakis, and I, just a year ago, asked you to put the issue of sanctions on the table, after the illegal Turkli pact had been signed, were forging indifferently then and the ministers told you that this was not your strategic priority. You put it seven months later, too late. When I told you and we told you to keep the channels with Turkey open, the critical period of March - June, and to take the lead in the Euro-Turkish dialogue so that there could be an opportunity for exploratory, you said that we were Europe's shield in the Eastern Mediterranean. When we told you in August, when you signed the Greek Egyptian agreement, that you had to ensure at the same time that Germany would not move away from our positions, you ignored us again. You went to Berlin on 29 August and told us how well Greek-German relations were going, and for four months then we had Germany against us on the subject of sanctions. You went to Paris on 10 September, where you saw 'a complete agreement on the strategy towards Turkey'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u127	That's what happened last year!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u128	What position did France, Thursday, take at the summit, you who ensured strategic convergence and agreement with France with Turkey? What happened to the defensive deal? What position have other traditional allies taken, the countries of the south, Italy and Spain, countries with which we have fought for so many years to build the South Summit, which you have so easily ignored? We asked you, when the Turkish research arrived six miles from Kastelorizo, to extend our territorial waters south and east of Crete. Mr Mitsotakis, I say, when the Turkish research has reached six miles, questioning our sovereign rights six miles outside Kastelorizo, we asked you to do what your Minister for Foreign Affairs announced on the day of the debate here in Parliament on the ratification of the Greek Egyptian Agreement on the exclusive economic zone. He had announced this, the extension to the twelve miles south and east of Crete, and they were coming out for what you had announced, various other ministers, such as Mr Chrysochoidis, speaking with the most shitty terms and designations of nationalism. Or isn't it? You ignored us again. And I wonder what you will do if that provocativeness, after the last development at the summit, is generalized? Finally, I would like - and I say this frankly anxiously - to explain in your speech what weapons you have used in your efforts at the summit to assume the European Union's responsibilities. Listen, Mr. Mitsotakis, 2021 will, as everything shows, be a year of major processes and reclassifications. It will, if necessary, be a year that can define the conditions for any resolution of the Cyprus issue and the appeal to The Hague. I would like to warn you that yesterday's diplomatic defeat can evolve into the greatest national defeat of our generation if you continue that way. Greece cannot be lacking from processes that concern it. Greece cannot continue without a national strategy. Nor will we accept a Council of Political Heads who will be there to reconstitute your decisions retrospectively. And I want you to listen well to what I'm about to say. The democratic and progressive forces in the country - what we call a wider progressive, democratic party - and today and today have always been and are the first to support an honest dialogue and an honest solution with Turkey to the International Court of The Hague on the continental shelf and EEZ without blackmail. But, Mr Mitsotakis, I am quite clear: we will never accept a debate on gray zones in the dominance of our islands. We will never accept a debate on demilitarised islands, we will never accept guarantees or a stay of a occupied army in Cyprus. I'm telling you, you can arrange your course. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We expect, even now, the elementary self-criticism and the return to a strategy to defend our sovereign rights. We expect you to present us with a serious, structured strategy for our defence design and equipment, which you have not presented for so long. So how can we trust you and vote for the defensive expenditure after all this? Watch out. We are not voting against the increase in expenditure, but we are not giving you a white cheque without consultation, without a plan, without a strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u129	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u130	In closing my position, it was necessary to address a critical national issue. I would like to tell you not to bet that the Greek people will forget or forgive your failure in national matters too, because it is going through difficult days now because it is living in fear and insecurity because of the pandemic. It is natural at this time that the minds of all of us, the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, are primarily in the management of the pandemic and the failure of the management of the pandemic. But these issues are also crucial and I think that the developments that will follow will very much prescribe the future of our country's position and role in a difficult area. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the pandemic. The country counts over three and a half thousand dead, and the most shocking thing is that almost three thousand dead have been in the last month since the beginning of November. From where we were a positive example, we have become an example to avoid. And the question I would like to ask is how this change has happened. How true, Mr. Mitsotakis, has this development happened? You'll tell me. I'm going to ask you some questions. Was it just the virus's contagion? And even worse, was it the result of the Greeks' diligence, as you're trying to convince us? Do you, as government and as Prime Minister himself, have no responsibility at all for this development, for the lost lives? Yes, obviously the world pandemic was next that it would hit Greece as well. Obviously, we couldn't neutralize its dramatic effects. But did you take all the measures when you were supposed to, and when you had the chance, so we wouldn't get where we arrived? Did you finally do everything so well to justify the enthusiasm of your ministers for the number of our dead? More specifically, Mr Mitsotakis, is it not true that for months, after the positive first results, you have admired yourself for the first phase instead of armoring the National Health System, rather than giving the population the opportunity for mass and free tests, rather than multiplying routes to public transport? Isn't it true that you opened tourism too lightly and without a plan? Isn't it true that you fell out, as other ministers have said? Is it not true that you have even ignored proposals and warnings from the scientific community, even the letter of nine leading scientists, including Mr Dermitzakis, who resigned from the chairman of the National Research Council, where you placed him? Since March, they warned you that there would be a second lockdown and asked you to draw up a plan for extensive laboratory testing, a mass test plan, to scan the population. Isn't that true? What have you guys done? Is it not true that you had six months to go ahead with a substantial support to the National Health System, but did you choose not to go through with a single recruitment of permanent staff? Is it not true that right now in the National Health System they have been allowed to give the battle of the first line doctors and nurses helpless, without aid? Isn't it true that you're not paying for the on-calls of hospital doctors, as they report to you? Is it not true, finally, that for six months at all times, while you did not do all of this, did you blame the citizens themselves? Eleven million individual responsibilities in this country, only one responsibility has never been, your political responsibility. Or is that all not true? Even when you, Mr Mitsotakis, at a time of carelessness, as you said to us later, broke the lockdown and the strict rules yourself, even then you did not think of asking for an apology. It would be that simple, not after a week. You must apologise, say - even for this little one I will say, I will not say that it was a felony - I take one time in my life and I as Prime Minister a responsibility to say, I was wrong. You only ran.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u131	Let's hang him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u132	No, not at all. I'm not saying we hang anyone. I say he has the courage to go out to the Greek people and say 'I take responsibility', to go out and say 'I was wrong'. It's that simple. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But be careful. I'll tell you. The problem is not when one's wrong. The problem is when he wants to hide the mistake. The problem is when you ran for a week and took the canalarchs' phones to keep them from showing a picture, but you didn't call the clinic chiefs to open the clinics and have intensified treatment units and beds for COVID incidents, nor did the EGE perform more tests. That's the problem. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And also, since you're asking me, the problem is compared to the attitude you all had in the past and Mr. Mitsotakis, who came out and said in a speech to the Greek people, again addressing the constantly dangerous and constantly condemning young people in this society, telling them "the ruthless is irresponsible". And then a week later he went out to say "weany." That is why I criticise it and it is a political criticism. And you know what? I want to repeat this. It's a crucial issue to me. The crucial issue for the irresponsibility of ruthlessness is not a photograph or a bad moment. The irresponsibility for which I accuse you, Mr Mitsotakis, is that for six months you have not made sure that you have supported the National Health System, for six months you have not made sure that public transport services are'removed', for six months you have not taken up permanent doctors for six months, so that people can access the tests. That's why we blame you for irresponsible. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to allow me one more thing. If I blame Mr Mitsotakis for irresponsibleness, I blame him at the same time for something even more important: a lack of understanding. I have heard Mr Mitsotakis in a lecture to the Greek people speaking and saying that he has an image and understands that there are some of our Greek fellow citizens who are dependent - he says - on their wages. And another moment I heard Mr. Mitsotakis again in an interview with a foreign news agency saying that he is very optimistic about the progress of the economy, that we will have a very rapid recovery next year, because with the pandemic the Greeks cannot spend and save. With pandemic the Greeks save! I wonder, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen: which country does Mr Mitsotakis and you? Does it govern Greece or Luxembourg? Which country is this happening? What I understand is that the whole majority of the Greeks right now, not just are dependent on their wages, on their unemployment, on the inability to access an income. And I understand that those who are also employed and unemployed and precarious workers, not only do they not save, but even pensioners and employees, I will tell you, who have not seen cuts, as in the 2009 crisis, even they see accumulated obligations at this time. And their wages or pensions are not for savings. It's wasted in the first 20 days of the month. So I blame you both for irresponsibleness and lack of understanding. And to substantiate my words of the understanding deficit, I will deal with your forecasts of the economic crisis in the period after the pandemic began. At first you told us that all Europe will have a recession, but Greece will move above zero, that is, it will have a marginal growth. Then you talked about a downturn of 4%. And you have always told us that the course of the economy will be the English "V". In other words, what losses we will have this year, in 2020, will be replenished in 2021. That's what you were telling us. You yourself, Mr. Mitsotakis, told April in an interview at "Kathimerini": "The recovery in 2021 will be greater for Greece than the 2020 recession." I'm tabling this in the Minutes so you don't have to say again that I'm not tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above-mentioned interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And shortly after this interview, you were the one who said we were doing extremely well in the second quarter, because the recession was only 14%. And finally we had the biggest recession in all of Europe in the third quarter! Yesterday, of course, the Minister of Finance told us that, at the level of nine months, Greece's image is better than the European average, when, in reality, we are in the fourth worst position in the euro area. And now, with your forecast of a recession of 10.5% in 2020, we are certainly expected to be one of the last in Europe if not the worst, which is the most likely. So your predictions, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Stakoura, were other than others. And when the numbers disprove these predictions, you disguise the numbers. But what is your main argument? 'No other way'! But listen. I wouldn't criticise you if you fell out of one or two units in the assessment of the recession. Because that would mean we're talking up - down for the same size class and you're aware of the situation. But be careful. You predicted that Greece would have a recession of 4%. You know what it means, what that meant? It is a long way from a recession throughout the European Union. Because in May, before the figures were reviewed, the Commission considered that the lowest recession in Europe would have been in Luxembourg with 5.4%, and you said that we would have 4%. At the same time, of course, the Commission appreciated then 9.7% recession. We'll finally close 10.5%. So it is not possible for the Commission in May to rationally predict and for you to be completely out of place and time, to be completely ignorant of the danger. And I'm saying danger, because 10.5% recession is a disaster, it's not a number. It is a disaster in parallel to the difficult period of 2010-2014 that the country passed, when it lost 1/4 of its GDP and EUR 60 billion. The worst year of the 2010-2014 period was in 2011-I remind you - when we caught a recession of 9%, not 10.5%. You say to us, of course, 'the pandemic is the fault of everything, it is not our fault'. But there is pandemic throughout Europe, ladies and gentlemen. However, Greece is uragua - and so on - both in the recession and in the economic support measures you are taking and in the unemployment - especially youth unemployment - and in the loss of income and in the padlocks on the market. I'm afraid so, too, to the deaths. We're all pigs. And that, you know, it's not a natural phenomenon. That's your failure. Your permanent argument is that you are doing what the other countries of the European Union do and you say this in relation to support measures. That's a lie. However, let us see what they are doing in Europe, and let us see why we are so obsolete in the recession. Because there's an explanation for this and there's responsibilities. On the basis of the data, then, declared by the national independent financial bodies of each European country - for Greece is the Parliamentary Budget Office and the National Financial Council - let us see the comparison as to how much European countries have spent on support measures for businesses and the health system. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So we will see that our country is seventeenth in the European countries in the budgetary measures it has taken, and even worse, nineteenth, in terms of liquidity measures. According to the OECD, our country was in the last place to health expenditure, which took place after the beginning of the pandemic. You told us that was because you hadn't updated the evidence since April. Yes, sir! And you said "now we celebrate", because after the update, you reached the eighth place from the end. In a small detail, however, that all the other countries that are below - the other seven countries - neither have they updated data from April, while you have now updated them to become the eightiest of the eighties since the end. So it's probably not even lasting. Last and grounded, and health expenditure, we are. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Would you like more comparisons with Europe? No household income support here, while Belgium, France, Germany, Spain and Italy are implementing such programmes. Aid which increases the debt of enterprises here, instead of their direct subsidies such as in Belgium, France, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden and the Czech Republic. Funding for unemployment with a horizontal allowance here, instead of subsidising labour and supplementing wages, as many countries in Europe do, with much less unemployment problem than we do. The State undertakes to make up for the wages in France, the Czech Republic, by 100%, in Sweden by 82% to 96%, in the Netherlands by 90%. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, because Greece is swelling in the last countries in Europe at the recession. It's not pandemic, it's not a natural phenomenon. And take note, in a Europe that understood in time what is happening, contrary to the 2009 economic crisis and enables all countries - and Greece - to spend without restrictions, without the Stability Pact and with access to new sources of funding. And you deny that, and of course, you are bringing two-digit recessions. That is why we are telling you that you have failed, you have failed structurally. I fear, however, that this failure will not be harmful to today alone. It's a time bomb for both the tomorrow of the economy and the place. Because at the end of the day, when this adventure of health is over, our debt will have reached 210% of GDP, 210% of GDP! So your obsession with European policies is jeopardising everything that we have achieved over the past few years. The next day, you know, it won't be in the same protected environment that you're moving in today. I pray that I answer the question you have many. You tell us "but the risk of bankruptcy will come if we do what SYRIZA says if we spend." There's no more nonsense than that, and I'll explain why. Because the risk of bankruptcy will come again if, at some point, the European Central Bank stops buying government bonds and then the borrowing begins to be expensive again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u133	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u134	And then - listen to me a little bit carefully - the infamous markets, no matter how much you make them with promises or measures extreme, neoliberal, will they start looking at what again? The debt ratio to GDP and the denominator, you know, GDP is an extremely critical size. With your policy, then, we are now losing a huge opportunity to retain this ratio of debt to GDP, precisely because there is no Stability Pact, there is no primary surplus restriction, there is no terrorist pistol in your head. That's a huge opportunity! And to give you an example to explain why it is the greatest nonsense that is said to be 'if we spend, we will save bankruptcy', and the reverse is the case. What happened between 2010 and 2014? Don't we have experience as parties as political forces? Have we not acquired a collective experience and knowledge? What happened? The current policies and the reduction of public expenditure, imposed by the troika, of course, has resulted in the debt being launched from 124%, which was at the start of the crisis in 2010, to 180% of GDP. From 124% to 180% in a few years! The difference, of course, is that while, in 2010, the country was already derailed and the troika was here with its well-known obsessions, perhaps even revenged against Greece and dictated policies, today you not only have the troika above your head, but you have - be careful! - possibilities that no government had at the place since post-Macedonia, then, to be more specific, let me say from the country's entry into the euro after. What do you got? You have a'safety pillow', this famous pillow' that you accused us of destroying the country and now you say 'good thing we have', EUR 37 billion. You have a regulated debt. That's what we did. You have an unprecedented liquidity and cheap lending. You have suspended a Stability Pact and no commitment to surpluses and you have the Recovery Fund. Are these a few? You do not justify all this being a pig in Europe, being last in Europe at expenditure and last in Europe in the recession.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u135	Give it a hand!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u136	You don't have to. It's not about applause. What I'm saying is to see them and cry, not to applaud them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is to see them and cry, that you have commanded the Greek people that you will lead the country to the pretext and progress, that you will raise the income of the middle class, bring jobs and growth and lead us to new adventures again. We, ladies and gentlemen, have hit the alarm in time, and have indicated to you a forward programme to strengthen the real economy, without increasing more than you have already increased lending - and therefore the debt - and with such a programme we could have held back the recession. How? Using the ‘cushion’, with targeted support costs and supply and demand. Instead, what did you do? A "water hole" you did. And you're lying. You're telling us you've put 24 billion on the market. Where are these 24 billion people and no businessman has seen them? You're on the market? Are you going to talk to people on the market? Where are those 24 billion people? State expenditure, of course, on the pandemic by the end of October - it confirms it directly the implementation of the budget - amounts to just 6.7 billion, of which 3.1 billion are loans. Where's the 24 billion? However, 24 billion and a generalised economic suffocation in the market cannot be achieved. It is characteristic that in the third quarter, without lockdown, companies in a series of branches saw their turnover falling by 62.6%, i.e. 13 billion less than last year. With regard to the drama of work, workers in our country undergo the third largest reduction of income in Europe following the measures that you have implemented and, overall, citizens in the country experience the second worst income reduction throughout Europe. I'm doing the above. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Now, with holiday days, there's a new disaster. The market world estimates that every year 30% of the turnover comes on Christmas Days. And that's not coming this year. For many it was their last hope that they might also somehow save the situation. Unless you think that this terrible crick away patent can deal with the problem. Of course, the traders and their small and medium-sized "expect the corner" in 2021, not with fresh money, not with support, not with debt haircuts, but with the new bankruptcy law, to get them what's left of them. In order to understand, however, I would like to make a reference. Despite the fact that you were elected "meaning" in the middle-class, you were elected in the name of the middle-class and in the name of small- and medium-sized businessmen, you rule in the name of the very large companies and banks, which have the potential for very large liquidity this year, to provide loans because they have more than 50 billion liquidity available, but companies that have a real need to borrow - you know it very well - cannot go outside the banking shops either. It is typical of this inequality - I said this again in a speech - that in March - July 2020 five very large companies have absorbed almost half of the banks' funding. The distribution between small and large banking enterprises is almost one to four in favour of large companies employing over two hundred and fifty employees, which accounts for about 12% of the market. In short, 80% of bank lending money goes to 10% of businesses and the remaining 90% gets 20% and the large majority gets nothing. Why is that? Because while the market collapses and the recession catches a ceiling, banks do not change the criteria and conditions for lending companies during the pandemic. What does the government do about it? He's watching. It does not even use the Development Bank's programmes - which we left as a reserve - as almost all European states do today. Ladies and gentlemen, I will return to the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises with concrete proposals. However, I would like to make a few general remarks beforehand on the budget, a budget which, apart from virtual in terms of its predictions, is also challenging. While pandemic seems to create a new treaty around the world, you here seem to be stuck in the obsolete and inefficient neoliberal model.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u137	Five days we hear the same thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u138	Please, no holiday and no conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u139	I don't want to put it in ideological terms. I shall put it in perfectly practical terms and not ideologically. This model failed before the pandemic. After the pandemic, however, whoever insists will not just go into failure, like you now. Whoever insists will be brought to ruin. That is why, from the United States to Europe, the voices of leaders, social actors and international organisations are growing, saying that we need to go to another sustainable and fair productive model. They say we need to support national health systems. They say that we need to support work, invest in new technologies and innovation, deal with ever-increasing inequalities. Not all of these people say it all over the world, now in particular, after the pandemic, because they are or suddenly became socialists. They say it quite simply - so I tell you I'm telling you practically - because the bill doesn't come out. And you here act like you don't understand. You bring a budget in the year of the pandemic for next year, in 2021, which provides for EUR 572 million less for public health. Watch out. We in a period of budgetary closeness and without having a pandemic have increased health expenditure by 1 billion per year. Now you're reducing them. If this is not obsessed, ideoscopy, what can it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u140	Please don't shout. You don't sound anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u141	It's not the mask that doesn't sound, Mr. President. The arguments are junkies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u142	No, Mr. President. It's the mask. And it's right because we're wearing it. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u143	However, you are showing that you have a total for public structures, not just for health, and the social state. The same indifference is shown for the economic and social consequences of pandemic in a number of professional social groups. In this budget we have zero support for workers in tourism - seasonal workers will spend Christmas without 1 euro, Mrs Gennamas said before - seasonal workers as a whole, free professionals, scientists, long-term unemployed people, people of culture, farmers and employees. In order not to blame you, of course, you are also planning an increase. Where? In the revenues you receive, he says, from taxation. You're predicting 3.5 billion more. I wonder how this can be done by a Greek society that is indebted. So you are bringing in a budget that does not respond to the concerns of a large majority that is implicit today, a social majority who is trying to overcome the pandemic, their 'current' obligations in their daily lives, their jobs and their shops. And I would like, Mr Mitsotakis, since you had come to this one step forward, they are the ones who live from their wages every morning and work from home, bearing in mind whether the children are going through televising, because they need two and three computers at the same time, they are the ones who have put on their shops and their phone rings every day from the suppliers and the banks, they are the ones who have been suspended and they're "crowded" all day on the internet if they find any job of pre-pre-emption from Genoaris, they are the ones who have picked up life savings, to leave their grandchildren and now pay their children's bills and obligations. This is the middle class. That's the one you betrayed, Mr. Mitsotakis. And they're not characterized by whether they're wearing a tie or not at the holidays. They are characterized by their needs and their great weakness in meeting these needs today. And now they're all locked up in their homes. And it turns out that none of the media filled with state money has time, even a few minutes, in the news releases to dedicate to their own voice and needs. Maybe that's why you don't understand how they're going through. You've made a lot of criticism for retired people. And I want to say that. Mr Brutsis came out with your election and said: 'We will resolve the problem of outstanding pensions'. We had left a hundred thousand outstanding pensions. Do you know how many outstanding pensions are now? Three hundred and sixty thousand are the outstanding pensions! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You know them very well! Well, of course you know, since the only rushphetti you ask Mr. Mitsotakis as MPs is to quickly retire. That's where we're going!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u144	Please! There will be answers. We're not closing here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u145	But you betrayed those people. We are against all of these, in the Greeks and Greeks who are experiencing a terrible period of insecurity and uncertainty about the future, say - and we believe it deeply - that there is another way. Greece, of course, is unfortunate that in these circumstances it governs a government that does not understand and that is why it does not strengthen them. Because there are available resources, there is a budgetary margin, there is a possibility of reversing, even now, the consequences of this disastrous policy. And we'll show you this other way all the time. First and foremost we tell you: support public health. Go ahead to fifteen thousand permanent intakes in health. Reinforce workers' incomes in the RIS. Increase overall health expenditure. Go ahead and prescribe tests for the whole population. The pandemic doesn't end tomorrow. It's good to see the vaccine. And, of course, I imagine that all the political forces - I say, I imagine - and the political leaders will set an example in vaccination. But be careful, I wish the pandemic were over there. I wish! The pandemic will last for several months and after the vaccine. We therefore need to strengthen the possibility of scanning the population. Prescribing the tests is a crucial issue. Also, give Christmas gift to all employees. You blamed us every year for giving crumbs when we were giving the surplus, and you have abolished everything, and at the most critical moment in the pandemic, which households do not have elementary income. Give Christmas gift to all employees with public expense. They don't have the strength to do business. The workers need it very much. Go on, even in the face of holidays, to our proposal to provide emergency income for those affected by the pandemic: freelance professionals, self-employed, brokerage workers, unemployed, farmers, seasonal workers, workers in the field of culture. Set up labour subsidy measures rather than suspending them, cover workers' insurance contributions and part of their wages, in order to maintain jobs and employment relationships. Convert the repayable advance to a non-refundable company. After all, if you do not have it. Go ahead with a brave regulation of private debts created after the pandemic, with a haircut of not only interest and surcharges but also a significant part of the basic debt, as we did with the one hundred and twenty instalments for debts in the insurance funds. Don't say that's not happening. In emergencies there are exceptional measures, if you want small and medium-sized enterprises to survive, because there is a view, 'Let them not survive, it is a zombie'. Proceed to support measures for catering enterprises, reduce VAT to 6%. Proceed to a rent subsidy, abolish excise duty on farmers' oil, a great social category. Freeze the power, water, gas, telephone and internet breaks. Reconnect what you have interrupted recently. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It's all too much, isn't it? It was the news that we all heard and froze when we heard it. I guess you too. I don't want to claim socially sensitive laurels. It's a matter of political choice. We froze, then, when we heard that a family in Komotini was begging for a loss of power shortly later, because the child was on the internet and did teletext.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u146	The mayor went and didn't find it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u147	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I am sure you believe that this is not the case in our country, precisely because you imagine that you are ruling another country. I do not know whether this is Luxembourg or anyone else, but, Mr Papademiriou, Greece has nothing to do with this country that you imagine is. I'm afraid so. Ladies and gentlemen, in a world that, after the pandemic, will be very different, on a planet that changes and sees the importance of social protection and the public health system, the New Democracy Government serves us the same resurrected food, what led us to bankruptcy in 2010. It is the Pissaridis report and its proposal for the Recovery Fund. The fundamental principles reflected there and the government's strategic position on development are what? Those who have been telling us for so many years: the elasticization of labour - how much longer? - privatisation of infrastructure, networks, health and education services and, of course, insurance. During the pandemic, privatisation is beer than the one attempted at Scaramaga Shipyards at a price that is not even to buy a pavilion, not a shipyard! Thirdly, a contraction to the liquidation of small and medium-sized enterprises. It's not an accident, it's drunk. And, fourthly, reducing social costs so that there is room for tax relief for a few. All this is not new, it's old, we've lived in the memoirs, we've known them for decades. Our proposal, the progressive proposal, is on the reverse. And I believe that pandemic enables us to see even more clearly what the real priorities are for a Greece of social justice and prosperity, with a state of humanity and strongness, so that it can be a decisive factor in development but also support for the hardships, with an economy that must serve man and the needs of his everyday life, with a strong society of confidence, with solidarity and mutual respect, in a country that supports public health and the social state, to support vulnerable and maintain social cohesion. In a country that will create a new production model based on innovation, new technologies, new production potential and what will come full of knowledge, skills and ambitions. In a country that will invest in education with brave funding in research and science, which proved to be how necessary we have it, when for years your budgets predicted a contraction of these resources and baptized the Greek universities, centres of lawlessness. In a country that will protect work, to support production on solid bases, not partial, rotating and uninsured labour. Give prospects and security to the productive generations of this place. In a country, finally, which respects nature and the environment, because the next major crisis that we will have in front of us after the pandemic will be the climate crisis. Unfortunately, this cannot be solved by scientific miracles, such as that of the COVID vaccine. I would like to close, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance, with a message to every citizen who listens to us at this time. I know and fully understand the stress and insecurity that each Greek family feels at the moment. They are feelings that grow rapidly every day that passes. The wounds right now - economics, social and, of course, mental and emotional - are very great. Seeing a government that has made the strategic choice to leave Greek society at the mercy of another crisis, because it mainly cares about its political survival, the worst thing that can dominate our people, all of us, is desperation. We are a society that in these critical months of pandemic has shown values and ideals, which authoritarianism - I will say - ignores government. And these ideals and values are "individual" features of a society that wants to come out of this crisis, from this test and progress. I am talking about respect for the fellow man, about solidarity, about cooperation, care and support for the older generations, parents and our grandparents. This society must fight and take on her the case of the next day for the place of Greece that must heal her wounds and put her future into a classroom. So we must again defeat those who are constantly returning to immerse us again in desperation, arrogance, authoritarianism, lies, with mud. We're not gonna do them a favor. We'll beat them again. It may be that returning these difficult hours, this retreat that the country is experiencing, looks like a prank of history, but history is moving forward and at some point this prank will look like a negligible cache in the ongoing move of history forward. Let's not forget, the darkest moment of the night is just before the dawn of the next day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u149	Mr George Gerapettritis, the Minister of State, is immediately invited to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared an institutional and consultative speech, because this is the first budget to be implemented by the new system of governance brought by Law 4622/2019 for the final state. For the first time, for the first time, standardised procedures for the conduct of a government policy, which started already last May with the Ministerial Council, planning and evaluation of the government project, with action plans from all the ministries, with regulatory planning for 2021, with recruitment planning and, of course, with the adoption of the Consolidated Government Policy Plan, which will come to the Ministerial Council in December. But I had the pleasure and honour of listening to the Chief of Officerial Responsibility referring to matters which, in my view, were a mere shot at the right speech. And that's why? Because we have heard this at the same time. 'We are not voting on armaments, but we want a hard nuclear foreign policy', with what that means! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In economics, to empty the funds, to raise the debt, and in this way we will improve the ratio of debt to GDP and deficit! Let him explain to us how that is to be done, Mr Chakalote. Explain it to us very nicely. That is really going to win the Nobel economy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He also told us while protecting health and listening to science, because we are leading to a closed market and leading to the destruction of the small and medium-sized enterprises. Ambiguity? Either we protect health and listen to science or the market, which the present government will replace, will suffer. In the end, what I heard from the Chief of Police Vice-President - and I heard it more than twelve times counted - were two words: 'category' and 'destruction'. It was just a disastrous reason! It was as a hope to be able to build on a disaster! I would like to tell you, therefore, that while you have ruled, ladies and gentlemen, with delusion, you are opposed to opportune flags of destruction. You're actually up on the chariot of any catastrophe. As modern - day Zola, the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation referred to the issues that the government has not done well. We'll see about that. I would like to ask: What was the even one constructive proposal made during the one hour and five minutes by the Chief of Police? What was the review, after all, of the budget? Does it disagree with increasing funds for education by 142 million? Does he say that, almost insinuated - in the equipment, which has been stationary for four and a half years? Does he object to tax relief? Does he object to a reduction in insurance contributions? Does it disagree with the incentives given at a budgetary price to create new jobs? What, really, disagrees? We have not even heard one proposal on this matter. And, of course, there was also the lyricism, that you have been abandoned by society. So, let's see who's left us, since the Chief of Police thinks so. Have we been abandoned by the markets? Let's remember. Which country, Mr Tsakalote, has, in the midst of a pandemic, been upgraded by the rating houses and, in fact, is borrowed with a history low, which is one third of what you were lending for your governance? I repeat, in the middle of a pandemic. So the markets don't trust? Aren't companies trusting? That's right. Does not the ‘MICROSOFT’, ‘PFIZER’, ‘VOLKSWAGEN’, ‘ERGO’? None of them trust and come and settles in Greece? No one trusts in all of them. Do you disagree with that, too? The Europeans and the institutions do not trust us, so they do not give us the sanctions that Mr Tsipras dreams of. Should we ultimately see how we have achieved 32 billion, disproportionately high in relation to the country's data, which is the basis of our development policy from the Recovery Fund? Should we not see the fact that for the first time Greece, first of all from all countries, has tabled the most structured plan for the absorption of these funds? Or doesn't society trust us? As long as someone sees the indicators of confidence. I will not, however, speak either of confidence indicators or of consumer climate indicators. I will speak of the real trust which has been built between this government and the Greek society. And if you think that with all this we have failed - because we have repeatedly heard it, that we have failed - then we may need your own "know-how", which is well known. I wouldn't mention, but the "know-how", which you have on the real-state opportunities, I think is the best "know-how" that you have, so that you can get at low-paid rents what you can get! So there I say: What is actually the next day that dawns on this budget? What is missing from this pandemic, which, in the opinion of Mr Tsipras, was a disaster? In the health field, therefore, there are fifteen thousand workers who are eighty - seventeen. Thousands of three hundred IF beds are excluded from five hundred fifty-seven. Really, what we're accused of not preparing has anyone seen the math of this thing? For four and a half years, the intensive care units have not increased by one! In what way today more than doubled, do you think there was no attempt? In fact, your mathematics find me in a state of mind. At the level of the economy - we have said so - there have been enormous difficulties. Indeed, we are experiencing a crisis which has no precedent. We support the real economy. 24 billion has already been disbursed. There will be another 7.5 billion, which will be registered next year. At work in particular - and it makes me impression that Mr Tsipras was referring to work - Greece is the only country in Europe, which has taken the job conservation measure, the non-dismissal clause, subsidising work and all the workers equals. Mr. Tsipras mentioned the replacement of salaries, but in Greece we had the most advanced measure. All employees received the same amount of compensation. What was the result? Above all, the low-wages and not the high-wages, an almost balancing measure, but necessary at this stage, have been supported. And the result was that Greece was at the moment with the lowest proportion reduction in jobs. Less than 2%. We supported the work for the next day. Mr. Tsipras was mentioned in the training section. We all heard about telematics. You know, really, what kind of deposit is for young children the real familiarity with the digital space that took place during the pandemic? We have succeeded in having at the same time a hundred thousand electronic classes, which have worked. This chapter, indeed, must not be lost. In conclusion, I would like to say this: you obviously think it is worthless that in less than eight months the whole state was digitised. What did we have? We had five hundred services, which were being provided electronically. We've already spent seven hundred and will soon be a thousand. Amidst the pandemic we have, in fact, managed to upgrade the functioning of digital governance and to have the transition to a new digital age. All this, according to Mr Tsipras, is obviously a failure. I would like to say, however, that we do not promise what we can do. This budget is a budget that will bring growth realistically. We are not going to invoke ignorance or delusion, because delusion is the alibi of failure. We are building with our credibility a sustainable trust with the citizens. And this sustainable confidence, which is, in my view, the largest chapter, because there has never been a relationship of trust between the state and the citizen, we will not risk it. We'll capitalize it and legitimize it over the next generations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u151	We would also like to thank Mr Gerapetititi, especially for the accuracy of the time that he has had.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u153	No, no, no, no, no, no. Now, it's the turn of the current Minister of Finance, not the former!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u154	He made three references to me. He asked me three questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u155	I call on the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget debate is taking place in an unprecedented period of uncertainty worldwide. Uncertainty, resulting from the greatest health crisis in the last 100 years and the serious consequences accompanying it. All over the world health systems are pressed, citizens' strengths are tested, societies are concerned and feel insecure, people's freedoms are restricted, economies are surrounded. In this liquid environment, the financial staff, with a feeling of debt vis-à-vis the country, of law vis-à-vis society and responsibility towards the citizens, are planning and implementing the best solutions within the framework of possible solutions. We aim, by emitting security and stability, to overcome the crisis with the economy in operation and society upright and, initially, set the foundations for rapid recovery and then for sustainable and inclusive growth. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from political leaders and officials of the opposition parties without any unfounded and unfounded allegations. I'm going to answer these claims with evidence. Firstly, I first heard the Opposition repeating today that the economy had gone downwards before the pandemic. The truth is - and I will put it out in the Minutes - that the annual growth rate of the economy has accelerated in 2019 compared to 2018 and for the first time since 2007, growth in Greece has been higher than the European average. In addition, this dynamic continued in the first quarter of 2020, despite the fact that Europe has returned to recession. He said Mr. Tsipras that Greece was and is a pig. I cannot understand a table showing Greece in the first quarter of 2020 with a positive figure, i.e. with growth - and Europe returning to recession - and being a pigeon. I would urge him to better monitor the evolution of the data. The New Democracy Government, with its policies and credibility, has therefore strengthened the expectations of its citizens, the liquidity conditions of the economy and the confidence of the international environment. Second, then they switched off. I heard the opposition claim that the government led the country to a deep recession in the first half of the year. The truth is that the country has been undergoing a recession - I will put it in the Minutes - considerably lower than the European average in the first half of the year, it seems here, which again proves that we were not a pig. It is thus demonstrated that in the first half of the year the government retained the adverse effects of the crisis. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. Then the scores were changed again. We left the first quarter, left the second quarter, left the first semester, and where did we go? We went and isolated the third quarter of the year. And the opposition argues that the country was brought to disaster because it has the deepest recession in Europe. Even so - and I tabled it in the Minutes and yesterday - in the nine-month period Greece remains better than several other European economies, such as Italy, France and Spain. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. However - and here is the extremely dangerous one, and I would expect former finance ministers to be more careful - we need to study where this major economic downturn is due. We can't fly a number and not know where this shrinkage is due. The answer is simple. It is due to the compaction of exports of services by 80% due to adverse effects on tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, be careful. The third quarter of the year, with the exception of this component, namely, tourism, consumption and investment cumulatively present the second best performance in Europe and only consumption the third best performance in Europe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is the three-quarter table across Europe. We're not here either. So you realise that with the measures taken by the government, they retained consumption and investment. Yes, we had an extremely deep recession due to tourism. We had 80% reduction in Greece, when the European average was 18%, which is why. In all the other components we have had the best performance in Europe. This is clearly a picture of durability that gives strong signs of reaction. Fourthly, the opposition insists - and today it did - on blaming the government's financial staff for changing its estimates. The truth is that in such a volatile environment forecasts are constantly changing. To prove this, I have tabled a long-term series of estimates. I heard Mr Tsipras blaming the Prime Minister for the March assessments we were talking about development. But, I'm sorry, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, did all of these anticipate growth for both Greece and Europe? Didn't the State's Budget Office in Parliament anticipate the same? So I have submitted all the evidence to show how great the variability of estimates across Europe has been because of the volatile situation we are experiencing. I am sorry that there is nothing else I can do to discuss on a reasonable basis. However, ladies and gentlemen, do not refer to predictions, because in all your years of governance - I have tabled it before - in less volatile periods, not like the one we live today, you have failed your assessment of growth. You've had zero on four! All four years have failed to appreciate and predict growth. And, in fact, according to ELSTAT's recent figures, you left us and five billion euros less wealth in 2018. But the situation here is getting more interesting. That painting I told you about, I testified him on Friday. They came out the next day, as usual outside the House, Mrs Ahtsioglou and Mr Tsakalotos and argued that I was allegedly lying, because SYRIZA achieved all the budget targets. I'm talking about development, about primary surpluses. SYRIZA talks about. But my aunt says, but I hear my ears! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What about the best? SYRIZA is proud of the excesses he has achieved, squeezing society with taxes. Eventually, SYRIZA wants to hide, but joy doesn't leave him! Fifthly, I have heard the opposition claim that our assessments are very optimistic, invoking - hear how dangerous its attitude is - only the OECD forecast for a 0.9% growth in 2021. The truth is - and I will put it out in the Minutes - that the average of the estimates of all domestic and international analysts, houses and institutions is about 4.5% in 2021. This is the average value of all the analyses carried out worldwide. Therefore, from about forty estimates, only one is extremely pessimistic for the country, that of the OECD, and only invoke it, because you are investing politically in the disaster. I've told you: you're investing politically in the disaster! Do you want any more proof showing the correctness of my argument? The same OECD report, if you support it, what does it say about Greece? That in 2022 it will have the greatest growth in the world among its members. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If, therefore, you are adopting the 2021 estimate, you must also adopt the estimate for 2022, but you do not even mention it, because - we said - you want failure and destruction. Mrs. Ahchioglu is gone. It is popular daily in its unfinished criticism, but it is consistently unspeakable when it is going to comment on good news about the Greek economy and society, positive reports by partners and institutions, unprecedentedly low borrowing costs of the country, upgrades of the Greek economy. He likes dangers, misery, mercenary. All positive, however, are collective successes that are credited to everyone and everyone. For the record now, as the prediction ratio, Mr Tsipras, on July 29, long before the second phase of the pandemic, predicted a recession of 12% this year. Well, Mr. Varoufakis predicted 15%. I am quite sure that Mr Tsipras will like to see this - even deeper recession. At the end of the year, we will all be evaluated. However, I have heard another thing today from Mr. Tsipras, accusing the Prime Minister, of reports made by the Prime Minister and myself and the financial staff for a rapid recovery in 2021 and essentially for full coverage of 2020 losses in 2021. When? March-April. European Commission report on the whole of Europe in February, May and November respectively. You compare to see what they say. They say that all over Europe there would be full coverage - these were the estimates in February - they continued in May and talked about full coverage of 2020 losses in 2021 and they came in November and changed the estimates, predicting that no country in Europe will be able to cover all losses due to the intensity of the problem. Well, in all the countries of Europe, not all the institutions can provide for the same and only SYRIZA to blame the government and the Prime Minister for what we were supporting at that time, when all the data have changed! Six, let's go to the support measures. I heard it today. The opposition argues that this is not what the government says. I have tabled in detail the budgetary measures, the report by the European Commission, which disprove the Civic Opposition. But today I will also present an additional table, which has never been tabled in this Chamber, proof of the transparency and clarity that the current government wants. It's the country fund. This table captures cash at the beginning of the pandemic, adds the resources we raised in the mid-term, deducts interest and debt costs and results in estimated cash assets at the end of the year. Appreciate it at 30.5. What does that painting prove? That the measures taken and will be taken by the government over the next few days are EUR 24 billion. I'm going to testify this painting that's the simplest, the fund, how much you have the beginning of the crisis, and how much you got today. I will testify to him - he has never been tabled to the Greek Parliament - to prove to you this way, since Mr Tsipras does not understand it in any other way, how much money was spent in 2020. I heard something else interesting. He said that we are sour - he said five, six times, but with tables it is not proven - to use budgetary measures to counteract the financial consequences of the pandemic. Tomorrow at the Eurogroup, a table will be presented, which says the budgetary measures in the countries of Europe. As you can see, Greece has taken more measures from the European average and much more measures, according to the table, from the following countries: Belgium, Portugal and Spain. So all Europe confirms that we have spent more financial resources than it claims, than the Civic Opposition advocates. Seventhly, since the reason for cash reserves, the Civic Opposition when it says that we are not making use of what it left us and when what we are doing is due to them. Do you understand what you're saying? You say: 'evaluate what we have left you' and then say that what we do is because of what you left us. Opposite, chaotic approaches. You haven't made up your mind either. But let's clear up the concepts. I have done so in the House, but I must repeat it seems to me that what I have heard from Mr Tsipras. It is also the so-called ‘cushion’ and the cash assets of the general government institutions. ‘Cushion’ is the special reserve account of EUR 15.7 billion, which cannot be used, except on strict terms and conditions imposed on SYRIZA government. Here are Mr Tsipras' reports in 2019, and that is why they cannot be exploited. On the other hand, the cash assets of the entities were always scattered and started to accumulate in an account in 2014. You didn't vote for it. The financial staff make use of these rationally, by supplementing the input outputs, mainly from highly successful market exits, at very low borrowing costs. And because I have heard you say many times that because of the European Central Bank we are lending very lowly, I would like to say to you that, both January and February 2020, we have borrowed one third of the cost of borrowing for your days. This is the result of credibility and confidence in the government of Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are dealing with public finances with respect for the great and long-term sacrifices of citizens. At this critical moment, with reduced revenues due to tax and insurance suspensions and restrictions on the functioning of the economy, the Government covers, as it has a duty, the needs of society, by paying salaries, pensions, allowances, allowances, allowances, wages, pensioners, freelance professionals and unemployed. And I will repeat it: and it will continue to do so for as long as necessary. We will continue to do this for as long as necessary! Civic Opposition has as a hobby irresponsible bid. Today, even today, this bid was multiplied. We've had a lot of Christmas bribes today. Fortunately for the country, we have not followed SYRIZA's populist exhortations since the beginning of the crisis. If we had done so today, given the development of the pandemic, we would have led to a dead end, failing to help workers and businesses and leaving the country uncovered. Eighth, I heard the opposition say that the planned increase in tax revenue in 2021 was due to new taxes. Evidently, he judges the odds himself! The truth is that the budget does not include a new tax. On the contrary - and I will put it out in the Minutes - the New Democracy Government since the summer of 2019 has made thirty-nine contributions to reducing taxes and introducing tax incentives to attract investment in our country. We made the relevant table with the Deputy Minister Vesyropoulos and I'll testify to him in the Minutes. Thirty-nine interventions to reduce taxes and create tax incentives to attract investment! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ninth, I heard the Qualified Opposition claim that the budget does not strengthen social cohesion. It's just the opposite. We are more supportive of the low wages by means of special-purpose compensation, we are extending unemployment benefits, we are supporting the long-term unemployed under the programme to create new jobs, we are strengthening OPEKA's actions with an increase of EUR 600 million in the amount of social allowances for 2021, we are strengthening social tourism programmes, we are granting an extended heating allowance to facilitate vulnerable households, we are implementing a state-funded loan scheme for information and non-loans, we are providing incentives to tackle birth, we are strengthening public health structures with additional resources from the country's reserve, and we will continue to support them for as long as necessary and in 2021. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Tenth, I have heard the Civic Opposition - the most interesting point, if you like - say that we have failed to support workers. The truth is that the government has given priority to maintaining jobs and protecting, as far as possible, workers' incomes. And he succeeded satisfactorily, better than the other countries. Let's get this straight. As far as job maintenance is concerned, all the reports recognize the effectiveness of government interventions. With regard to workers' incomes, a recent survey - which you have invoked, Mr Tsipras, but not all - shows that, following government support measures, loss is very limited. And I would expect you to show a table, the most important table in the report, if you really did have social sensitivity. The table you have shown shows that for the low incomes Greece has achieved the third largest proportion of the loss of income in Europe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The third highest rate of replacement! And be careful, without taking into account the large number of self-employed and individual enterprises supported in Greece and other financial programmes such as the repayable advance. The Government has therefore shown that it has reflexive and efficient. Grants special-purpose compensation, covers insurance contributions on the nominal salary, suspends certain debts, provides for the payment of a reduced principal rent. Our country has chosen the horizontal support of all full-time and part-time workers, while the majority of European countries have set limitations. Moreover, unlike Greece, Mr Tsipras, most of the countries have taken on part of the support for workers, calling the affected businessman, who is allegedly being cut, to cover the rest. Here are the relevant table: Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Denmark, Estonia, Poland, Slovenia, Portugal, Sweden. So it turns out the correctness of our choice, that the state should take on its backs the whole part of these workers. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you said one more thing. You said that there are countries that have covered all the remuneration. You said four in the communication the other day from Mr Tsakalotou and Mrs Ahtsoglou, four were. First of all, I would like to say that the countries in Europe are twenty-seven. So that means the rest didn't cover the whole piece. Let's take France, which says they've covered it all. After they've covered it all in the painting you gave here, why doesn't the whole loss seem to have been covered? Because for once you didn't tell the whole truth. It covers 100% only for those who receive the minimum wage. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the rest it is covered 70%, and that is why it is shown in the table I have tabled that France and Greece have achieved the highest payroll in the low wages, because we have taken measures for those who are allegedly being cut, for our very low wages compatriots. That's the reality. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The most important thing - and the Minister said, Mr Gerapitris - is that the measures taken in our country were intended to preserve jobs, which was also legally reflected as a condition of state aid, contrary to many other European countries. All this demonstrates that economic policy has supported comparatively effective, to the extent possible, workers' incomes and the labour market. Mr President, I will need six to seven minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the reality, far from triumphs and dangers. But this reality can only be seen by those who have not been affected by the viruses of delusion and populism! We, living in the economy and society, and not in glass towers, hear the pulse, understand the difficulties, understand the concerns, respect the concerns of the citizens, we are conscious of the responsibility, we react directly, we manage with flexibility the consequences of the pandemic, we act calmly and together, we seek to minimize the mistakes and limit the omissions in these unprecedented circumstances. We demonstrate, together with society, endurance. It turns out that the public has several quality islands, public officials who have worked unobtrusively in recent months and whom I now publicly thank. All of this is collective successes that are credited to everyone and everyone. In the crisis, we have proved as a country with a leading civil society that we can achieve it. We've earned credibility, trust, prestige. However, we do not have any illusions. In the health field we are fully aware that the battle against pandemic continues, unfortunately, with human losses. A large part of society feels fear and frustration. And the wish of 'health' becomes more meaningful on the people's lips. In the field of the economy, the cost of restrictions on its operation cannot be covered as a whole. The next few months will be difficult. Returning to normality will be gradual and not immediate, and the post-coronary era will be confronted with new challenges, related to the structure of the economy, the transformation of labour, the digital transition, differentiated trade. But, together with the challenges, there are opportunities which we must make use of as a country. We need to use plan, dynamism and wisdom, fiscal flexibility, monetary relaxation, important European financial instruments, enhanced country credibility. Priorities are, inter alia: Priority is to support workers and businesses, with measures of EUR 7.5 billion, until they find their pace in the economy. I will repeat that as an economic official we will be close to society for as long as necessary. Secondly, the strengthening of the Armed Forces by increasing defence expenditure. The aim is to strengthen the country to address the challenges faced by Hellenism. Third priority, the completion of the development of domestic ownership of realistic and ambitious development plan, governed by the principles of economic efficiency and social returnability. Project modern, extroverts whose implementation will enhance productivity and structural competitiveness, employment, investment, social cohesion. A plan based on the reduction of taxes and social security contributions, the allocation of tax bases, the control of expenditure through this review, the establishment of a framework of rules in public administration, the treatment of high private debt, the consolidation of the balance sheets of credit institutions, the implementation of the dismantling programme, the reduction of counter-motorisations and obstacles to investment, investment in endogenous sources of development, such as education, lifelong learning, research, innovation, the creation of conditions for attracting human capital - as we are doing with tax incentives, which we have recently legislated - and the qualitative upgrading of sectors of the economy - such as agriculture and tourism - and the creation of a genuinely powerful welfare state. Finally, fourth priority, funding for both the support measures of society and the economic development plan, which I have spoken about, through the best use of resources from the Recovery Fund. Resources that are important, more favourablely distributed in our country, result of the systematic personal initiatives of the Prime Minister and his government. These funds, together with the funds of the multiannual financial framework 2127, must be used quickly and effectively, and this is what the government is doing with methodicity, with timetables, monitoring procedures and implementing mechanisms. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 is undoubtedly a test year for all humanity. It is a year painful for society and very difficult for the economy, especially for Greece that has to face multiple crises on many, different fronts. And yet, our country compared to it did well at all levels and fields. Society has demonstrated strength and strength. Citizens have shown hidden virtues and undervalued capabilities and the government has shown responsibility. And all this is valued and recognised worldwide. They are a valuable asset for the future of our country and we must rely on them with confidence, together with the realistic expectation of the gradual withdrawal of the pandemic, through the start of vaccinations. This will move from the 2020 recession and uncertainty to growth and optimism of 2021. Greece has a number of comparative advantages. It has powerful historical, geopolitical, environmental and geographical elements. It has well-trained and well-trained human capital. These possibilities will only benefit if we apply, as we do, those policies that highlight them, facilitate them and confirm them. The government has vision, strategic plan and above all faith. It has faith in history, the potential and the prospect of its country and its citizens. The degree of success depends on all of us. With solidarity, political and social understanding and condolence, we will succeed. It is a duty for all of us to have an internationally decent and constantly strong homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u157	And then the Minister of Finance is called upon to close with his speech Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, allow me to begin with a historical report, which I am sure you will appreciate in particular: 'Public money, i.e. the value of the treatment of public needs, is emitted by the nation's inflamed people as vital elements. They are concentrated in public funds and channelled to different branches of animal life, thus maintaining the forces of society safely and harmlessly." It is the definition of the budget, which Ioannis Sutsos has already made since 1864 in the Manual of Journalism, one of the first concerns for the economy in Greece, I would say, with a core that has been unaltered and permanently time-consuming for over a hundred and fifty-six years. I'll testify for the Minutes. Because, like then, public spending today continues to derive from the work of the citizens, so that with their prudent management they can fuel the needs of the whole society. Society is at the heart of the budget interest of 2021, which at this juncture follows two parallel paths, but serves a common purpose: on the one hand it includes important initiatives to relieve pandemic and on the other it continues the structural reforms that favour medium-term development in order to achieve the national objective. And he is nothing other than the gradual decline in inequalities and the constant increase in public wealth for everyone, in a democratic Greece that will produce, export and prosper. It would be a good job if we could, at least in this national objective, agree here in this Chamber, regardless of how anyone believes that this can be achieved. Because for us, as much as you are disturbed by it, the reduction of inequalities is a central political option for this party. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I would say that in 2021, basically, it incorporates two years into one. In its first quarter - and we hope to stop there - they are expanding, if necessary - and we believe it will be necessary - the support measures that the government has taken for households and businesses in 2020, while throughout the year there are those major areas that will bring the country back into a dynamic development path, when with good reason we leave this adventure behind. The vaccine, which I will then speak about, becomes the border between the pandemic epilepsy and its preface to the post-COVID era, and, precisely, the double character that the Treaties impose is adapted to this year's budget. It is true that it was written under unprecedented circumstances, in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis, a huge economic turbulence, with the evidence being uncertain, at the end of the crisis still unknown, but it is a clear and honest budget. Before all, then, our 2021 options strengthen the pandemic reserve with an additional EUR 7.5 billion. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They then extend fiscal and insurance reductions to stimulate demand, investment, employment and, finally, they plan to relaunch our economy by reorientating and exploiting the whole of not only national but also European resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the new year's budget is also the budget for the first year of the new decade, so it has a defined but also a strategic dimension, and it also responds to current budgetary demands, but it also responds to long-term strategic targets. It is, however, a dynamic equation, as the Minister has said, with many strangers, and its execution depends on the path of the health crisis, while its development orientation depends on the exit, the exit with the least possible losses. To say this otherwise, it is also a part of the flexible policy pursued by the government so far. The results of this policy, moreover, are based, as without the 2020 initiatives, 2021 would have started with much deeper recession, with much less jobs, with lower incomes, with many more padlocks. I would remind you that, as early as March last year, the state allocated EUR 23.9 billion to sixty-two different measures to protect income and entrepreneurship, which were channelled into the three key priorities that the government has set from the outset. In the armoring of the National Health System, the care of workers and the unemployed and the preservation of the viability of businesses. On the first front, emergency health expenditure increased by 25% compared to the total health budget for 2019. It's 780 million, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, not 400 you claim. Stop your calculations in April. You insist on invoking elements relating only to the first stage of the crisis. Our hospitals, for which so many times we have spoken, have received more than seven thousand young doctors and nurses. They have modern equipment and materials. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And as far as the beds in intensive care units are concerned, we will see it again to hear it - from you five hundred and fifty-seven, and today there are a thousand three hundred and twenty-two and constantly increasing. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The State took the pay of those who were on a job suspension or were partly employed. It has, in fact, been the universal employer of the country and the private sector. Professionals and scientists were strengthened. Insurance contributions shall be covered. Rents are subsidized. And tax and insurance debts have been extended. I guess you don't question all this. These are the real facts of this policy, which supported society and the productive economy. In order to protect employment alone, more than 2 billion has been allocated. For the allowances of three hundred seventy - three thousand unemployed additional 300 million were spent. For December - which is why I did not hear you say anything - we doubled the minimum guaranteed income to almost five hundred thousand beneficiaries. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, the pensioners collected their retrospectives, as we promised, with full respect for the decisions of the supreme court. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Injecting liquidity into enterprises will exceed 12 billion over ten months. The Guarantee Fund, the Entrepreneurship Fund, however, mainly the mechanism of repayable advance, has already strengthened seven hundred thousands of enterprises, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] When the banking system was not able, it did not have the speed to support small and medium-sized enterprises, the state, without the slightest bureaucracy, opened up the Treasury and financed them directly. That's why you didn't find a word to say. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You say we don't live in the real economy. Go out a little bit and ask: taxi drivers, farmers, cafeteria owners, restaurants whether or not they are satisfied with the refundable deposit. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What are they? Is that big business? Big chapter? Or the backbone of the Greek economy, which is not one of the small and medium-sized enterprises? One more thing. It's a concept that you are, Mr. Tsipras, completely unknown. This is all done without any new tax. I'll say it again. No new tax! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the first time an emergency situation has not caused additional burdens on citizens. On the other hand, it remains the chain of reliefs that this government is doing. The reduction of the ETUC and, as I personally committed, its abolition for the smaller islands. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Smaller tax rates, larger tax-free. Reduction of VAT on dozens of products. And, of course, the suspension of the solidarity levy for 2021 in the private sector, as we committed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Retreat by four percentage points of insurance contributions, as promised and as you did not vote. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have thus avoided, ladies and gentlemen, the explosion of unemployment, even with some losses in income. We never hid that our priority towards pandemic was above all to shield employment. And, indeed, even in August, with the huge drop in tourism, unemployment fell almost short of last year's levels. What about the money? How could so many businesses and so many workers be financed for so many months? Not obviously with the famous pillow, which SYRIZA insists on invoking, as its only usefulness is to disembowel public opinion! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] After all, you will know that, Mr Tsipras, GDP data for the period 2015-2018 have been revised. And you know what they proved? They proved that the previous government, not much or much, left, in addition to the damage it has already done, public wealth of 5 billion less. The answer to all these reserves now available to our country is in the new credibility it has recovered. Prior to the coronary attack, growth had passed for the first time over twelve years the European average and the credibility of the economy has since opened the way for favourable lending. We were listening to you, Mr Tsipras, for months in this Chamber to talk about 'Mitsotakis'', to invoke the provisional figures in the fourth quarter of 2019 and the figures in the first quarter of 2020, to claim the absurdity that the country was in recession before the coronary struck. You spoke sixty-five minutes. Now that the evidence has been finalized and it turns out that what you were saying was completely inaccurate, did you have the courage to say an apology for all that you were telling us? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is the path of growth after the revised data in recent years for the first time. Take a good look, Mr. Tsipras. I know that it is painful, not for you, for the Greek society is painful for this tragic picture of the country in the four years that you have ruled and the great difference with the European Union. You spoke of national defeat. I'll then come to the outside. This is the country's national defeat, the product of your catastrophic operations in the first half of 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u159	A little more left look at the painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u160	I still have a painting for you, Mr. Chakaloto. I have a nice painting for you. This government borrowed 16 billion at historically low interest rates. Give this painting to Mr. Chakaloto, too, to see what credibility means.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u161	GDP fell 24%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u162	Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u163	Please, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u164	Your mask falls, and you're healthly dangerous! Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u165	In what you're showing a quarter of a world's GDP fell.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u166	Faced with this, once again in this Chamber there have been allegations, which I no longer know are due to party mistrust, methodological failure, conscious demagogues or simple laziness. The Minister of Finance, of course, replied to the allegations one by one. I'm going to make a few brief remarks. You are accusing us of the great recession due to our policies - I have already responded to that - and that we continue to review our forecasts. The Minister answered you very clearly. Was there even a country that has not kept up with its forecasts during 2020? Compare the European Commission's forecasts of April with what it is doing now and in any case, you compare the performance of the Greek economy, dependent on tourism to a much greater extent on many other European countries, with the performance of other countries in the south, such as Italy or Spain, which your friends Podemos govern! Three points more recession Spain has than Greece has! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, you said that in 2020, if I'm not mistaken, we only made it 6 billion. You said: ‘Where is he? Where is all the money that the government is talking about?' Where's that money? As soon as the last evaluation report - the last one, before mid-December - sums up the measures to 20.4 billion, which states that they will reach 24 billion, 14.7% of GDP at the end of December. I wonder why, Mr Tsipras, what is seen by everyone, even in Brussels, is being challenged here by some either short-sighted or bad-sighted people. I'll testify the relevant table for the Minutes. Health expenditure? You told us you raised them for a billion. Really? See some of your budgets, 4,41 billion in 2015, 4,37 billion in 2016, 4,32 billion in 2017, 3,84 billion in 2018. Election 2019 just 4 billion. That is what your budgets say. Didn't you know how much money you spent? Today they are growing to 4,83 billion, when in 2020 we have already made major extraordinary investments in the National Health System, while a very large programme of donations to public health, which we have already made as quickly as possible. So those who speak must also remember. I have heard about the same thing - not from you, but from a number of other speakers - about the funds for welfare and education. Care 3.6 billion in the last year of SYRIZA, 4.2 billion in New Democracy, who doesn't care about the weakest! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Education: 5.3 billion you, 5.6 billion New Democracy Government, which does not support public education! Even so, in times of crisis, it seems who really supports knowledge and, above all, who is closer to the weak. Whoever judges, be able to compare! Fourthly, you have again spoken of lost jobs. You're not telling the truth. Replying, and repeating that EUROSTAT, in the second quarter of the year, ranks Greece in the five countries with the fewest job losses. And I stress that we are one of the few unemployment states in September 2020 less than in September 2019. And these facts, obviously, are not offered for celebrations. They prove one thing, however: that our policy to defend jobs and jobs was effective. I will present for the Minutes an independent report from two major foreign scientists: "How to protect jobs during COVID, lessons from Greek experience". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We don't write that. They don't call them the paid, busted Pizza media! They're called valid researchers from abroad. Read it, you might learn something interesting! I'll say it again. Unemployment is the first form of injustice and we will constantly fight it on all fronts. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the hope that today we would be discussing the economy, on the basis of elements and a climate of intense confrontation, which would, of course, not exceed the threshold. I have just commented on the distortion of the truth from the Civic Opposition. I feel sorry for the fact, but I'm used to it now. I wouldn't say it surprises anyone, certainly not me. However, what I find unacceptable is the irresponsibility, with which Mr Tsipras has again found the opportunity to cast on the party arena even our national issues, again in the wrong moment, again in the wrong way. You know very well that for foreign policy issues, not only do I inform the National Representation but I also inform the political leaders in private, and I think that this is the best way to get a full picture of the Greek Government's movements, to be able to exchange views and, as far as possible, to form a single national strategy. So let me respond to all that I have heard today and from you, Mr Tsipras, and from you, Mrs Gennamas, on the occasion of the last summit of the European Union. "It was a tragedy", "Waterloo" is the terminology that you used, not only you but other colleagues, who spoke from the Qualified Opposition intensifiedly. The decisions that have been taken - in the conclusions are reflected - are clearer than ever in favour of the rights of Greece and Cyprus against Turkey's aggression. You said no decision was made. You're wrong. The list of sanctions to individuals and entities is widened when they are illegal. I guess that's not something you're questioning. At the same time, something very important is being done. They are authorised for the first time - it is something that we have achieved at the European Council - the High Representative and the European Commission to assess overall relations between the European Union and Turkey and propose to the European Council, by March, measures in which sectoral sanctions can also be included and the reassessment of the European Union if it is assessed that the interests of the European Union are affected. We have never succeeded in this wording until now. But I would also like to explain some of the truths that you, first of all, Mr Tsipras, have sat on the table of the European Council and you have negotiated hard for the benefit of the country, with tangible results, should know them. The European institutions never dominate national choices in an absolute way, however good they may be, but the common component of the priorities of all Member States. This is why European policy is being shaped slowly, perhaps slower, than those we would like to see. It moves, as I have said, like a heavy ocean, which, when it comes to a course, is still not going to change it easily. What we have managed to achieve is that the pressure on Turkey is gradually increasing. Yesterday - I did not hear you comment at all on your speech - the United States announced the implementation of significant targeted sanctions against Turkey's defence industry. As a member of NATO we welcome this decision and I am sure that Mr Erdogan has not missed Mr Erdogan's attention that Turkey is now increasingly isolated in the international environment. As far as our bilateral relations are concerned, our position remains stable. It hasn't changed. Challenges are being stopped, debates are beginning. Mr. Tsipras, you said that for the first time I told the press that sanctions are not an end in itself. I've said it at least ten times. But, once again here in the National Representation, you insist to twist my words. I have said many times that the government's central aim is to restore a channel of communication with Turkey, to get tons down and that sanctions or even better the threat of sanctions is that which can lead Turkey, through its own steps, to a change of behaviour. And I insist exactly on this position. It's the place I've been defending from the start. It is the position that I have repeatedly developed at the National Representation. It is the position for which I have informed you in private at the meetings that we have, and it is the only policy that can actually bear essential fruit for our country. If you have noticed the conclusions of the European Council, what does it say? It insists - 'insiste' in English, it is the verb in the official text - the immediate and smooth resumption of the exploratory contacts for demarcation, I repeat, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, continental and exclusive economic zone in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, as agreed in previous conclusions, from the point where we stopped the exploratory investigations in March 2016. This is what we seek to do as Greece. It is therefore an opportunity for the neighbouring country to prove whether it really means de-escalation. Here's a splendid field of glory! Turkey has often told us that it would invite us for exploratory debates and, unfortunately, the result was different from what we expected. The result of this behaviour is that Turkey is faced with specific sanctions concerning entities and natural persons and with the threat of sectoral sanctions. This was not the case, if I am not mistaken, in October, Mr Tsipras and Mrs Gennamas. Isn't that right? We didn't have an extension of the list of lists, listings, for faces and entities. We have now succeeded, and we have ensured that. So we haven't changed attitudes. Turkey is the one that realizes that the pressure is gradually increasing and I hope that this pressure will be the one that will eventually lead Turkey to a change of behaviour. We are prepared to discuss one issue, which is the subject of the investigative contacts. And why not, if we cannot agree, to agree on how we will end up with an international court in The Hague, in other words, so that we can resolve for the benefit of both peoples the remaining forty years. So that was the country's position. That remains the position of the country. I would point out, however, that national issues are also the issues relating to health and the progress of the economy. At this particular summit, Greece played its own role in order to be able to finalise - this has gone a little further as a footnote to the summit's conclusions, as they were reproduced in Greece - the enormous funding that the country had secured from the European Recovery Fund. Obviously this funding, when finalised in July, did not come with Greece indifferent. He was present at the negotiating table and that is why we secured this important package of financial support. Because we are a credible government, which the European partners trust and know that this money will be used for the benefit of the major changes, the major reforms and the important investments that need to be made in our country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The national policy - and you know it well - does not begin or end with a summit. What we have achieved these seventeen months, which we are in the country's governance, is very important: Two important agreements delimiting maritime zones with Italy and with Egypt and an agreement with Albania to go to the International Court of Justice to resolve our demarcation. Why don't you do this, Mr. Tsipras? Why didn't you do it for four years? You didn't make it, would you tell me again? You didn't make it? You, who accuse this government of retreating, are the same as you did not move a single piñon. You have probably moved one particular one, and we still remember the impact on foreign policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u167	What do you remember? What?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u168	What you know very well about the agreement with our northern neighbour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u169	What you will vote for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u170	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u171	We are the ones who enlarged...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u172	What's his name?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u173	Wear your mask. You're also a fragile team, Mr. Philly. I'll be worried about you. We are the ones who extended our alliances with Israel and the United Arab Emirates, forming a bow of countries that have aligned interests and see developments in the Eastern Mediterranean through the same vision. However, I was particularly surprised, Mr Tsipras, that you said in your speech, seeking to criticise me that I was supposed to have not handled our relationship with Germany well after the agreement with Egypt. So I read what you said, precisely: 'When we told you in August...' - this year - '...when you signed the Greek Egyptian agreement...' - correctly, this was in August 2020 - '...that at the same time you had to ensure that Germany did not move away from our positions, you ignored us again. You went to Berlin on 29 August and told us how well Greek-German relations were going, and for four months then we had Germany against us on the question of sanctions." Mr. Tsipras, in 2019 I went to Berlin, not 2020! What else can I tell you? I'll put it down for the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Words cannot describe the extent of your irresponsibility. All that comes to my mind is a phrase used by my teenage daughter: 'Whatever'! Whatever you're coming to say in this Chamber! You discovered travel in 2020, which took place in 2019! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you fire your recorders, I personally guarantee that they will join the unemployment fund! However, it is incomprehensible that these things are told at the National Representation by former Prime Minister and Chief of the Liberation Officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u174	Is there anything for you to say about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u175	I understand your irritation, but when you address me, I would prefer you to address the pluralist rather than the perpetual one. But allow me another dimension. Mr Tsipras, apart from partners in NATO, in addition to members of the European Union, we are above all - and I think we will all agree in this Chamber - Greek patriots. We are not only looking to support our friends. We're counting on ourselves. We rely on our powers. And that is a view that runs our whole policy, especially the defence policy, which you have not said many things about, because obviously it does not even appear to belong to the spectrum of your priorities. We're different to that, gentlemen of SYRIZA. In September, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, I clearly described a national shield for Greece, with new equipment, new staff for our Armed Forces. Today, then, I announce to the National Representation that, in a few days' time, the agreement on eighteen Rafale aircraft is signed here in Athens, which we will acquire within 2021 from France. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] The Minister of National Defence will inform the relevant committee - as he always does - of the rest of our planning, obviously in a closed session. Never again such a complex and large armament program was carried out so quickly and methodically. Our country, as I am committed, will also acquire new freshmen, anti-corruption helicopters, drones, the upgrading of F-16 aircraft will be renewed, the armouring of the Drought Army, the Air Force, the Navy, will be renewed, while, within five years - as I have promised - the life-threatening potential of all branches will be strengthened with fifteen thousand professionals of all specialties, as with new officers. This year's budget also has specific forecasts. The defence is close to 5.5 billion, increased by 57% compared to 2019. Only the remuneration of our executives will be increased by 370 million. For the defense of our country, we promote five projects worth 11.5 billion. You had launched - and this was with great difficulty - only fifty-four,6 billion. I am sorry, Mr Tsipras, that your party - and you personally - at these moments, when you come and forsake us to be stricter with Turkey, you do not dare, you do not have the courage to vote on these funds. The Greek people must hear it well that they do not support today the Civic Opposition, going against tradition in this Chamber, strengthening the Armed Forces at an extremely critical juncture! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] What's the explanation for that? I ask again, what is the explanation you give for this? Did the other left voices prevail in SYRIZA? On the one hand patriotic tsamboukas and on the other hand inactivity in real support for the Armed Forces? Hypocritically declare "residents" when you are absent from the national front? patrioticism with foreign steaks! That's what it's called! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] This, however, seems to be the different way the parties of the National Representation treat Greeks with the ethnic uniform in the uniform, but also the different viewpoints in which we handle defence issues. This government considers the powerful Armed Forces to be part of the country's diplomacy, strong and parallel pillars of a wider national strategy. And we are extremely proud of that. Ladies and gentlemen, last December, in the same process and when we were at a time when no one could imagine what would dawn on us in 2020, I said that the 2020 budget must have two features: on the one hand, it combines social care with economic progress and, on the other, it frames the realism of the present with the optimism for tomorrow. In this time in which it took place, we experienced tectonic changes throughout the world, but also major challenges in our country. I would not, however, change the substance of this speech I made a year ago, nor even the wording, because the demands remain the same: protection of society and dynamic development with realism and perspective. In 2021 the budget provides for an increase in GDP of 4.8% and an even higher rise in 2022, when we will have surpassed the income loss caused by the global pandemic in 2020. In the first three months of the new year, however, we will continue to be accompanied, as I said, by State interventions to absorb the economic shocks of the pandemic. As I said to you again and as the Minister has said, it has been budgeted. I hope we do not have to make use of this whole reserve. This will mean that we will have faced the consequences of pandemic faster than some might appreciate. However, we have at the end of EUR 7.5 billion to support society, low wages, workers, the unemployed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, private sector income will be stimulated by further reductions in insurance contributions and, as we have said, by the suspension of the solidarity levy for 2021. All this is worth 1.6 billion. The new hiring programme of 100 thousand unemployed, for whom we are subsidising insurance contributions for six months, will absorb 322 million, while for the grant of first home loans - those loans under the GEOFHYRA programme, which are loans that have not yet been redundant, an extremely successful programme - funds of 380 million euros have been entered. Next to this package, however, there is the extension of other measures which have been successfully tested, such as special-purpose allowances for those who are to be temporarily suspended or in part-time employment, which, Mrs Gennamas, is not - do not say so again - half a job, half a wage. Don't say it again. It's completely inaccurate. It may be half a job in hours, but it's almost 100% of the wage in pay. So it's not half a job, half a wage. It is an extremely successful programme - it is used in many European countries - and saved tens of thousands of jobs in our country. And, of course, we will continue the cycles of the repayable advance in order to stand up to our businesses. I have a full feeling of both the financial staff and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development how difficult the situation in the retail trade is and how painful it is that we should keep a large part of our economic activity closed, because that is what experts have told us. However, I would like to compare that, in relation to other European countries, we did the right thing earlier. You see that other European countries - almost all - which have rushed to the beginning of December to liberate economic activity, are now forced to close again for Christmas, because they are unfortunately seeing what we have always known, that in the end the spread of the virus is related to the overall level of mobility in Greek society and the Greek economy. And within these limitations, the Ministry of Development came and introduced the 'click away' regulation of 'delivery outside', as we say in Greek, which you so easily used in this Chamber. Look, we'll do everything we can to make it easier for the retail trade to save as much of the cigarette as we can and we won't apologise for it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What is the alternative that you propose? Tell me. Open up the stores? Is that what you want? Are you suggesting they open the shops? Do you have any other suggestion or stay completely closed? Because I haven't heard from you, who are moving here to conquer the government, if there's any other alternative. And I listened with interest to this argument, and I listened to it by Mr Pafili, that the tradition outside, the click away, favours only the large business groups. I will answer two arguments. Firstly, I know some major business groups, who have said themselves that they are not willing to enter this process. Secondly, we must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that e-commerce has come to stay. Do you think we can go against global economic trends? You, perhaps, of the JRC believe it. After all, you've had a career of eighty years believing it! In any case, the vast majority does not embrace it. It is also an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises to modernise e-commerce infrastructures and there are funds available to do so. Because companies which will not do so, no matter how pandemic, I assure you that the next day they will be in an extremely difficult position. So we used a new tool. So far, my picture is that it is working well on the market, it is facilitating and confronting the problem of the collapse of the distribution companies, the courier companies, who have not been able to respond in practice to very increased orders. The figures I heard from the Minister of Development are that from where we had a hundred thousand packages a day we reached almost five hundred thousand. And, yes, it's a breath, a relief for the retail trade, which is being tested today. But I would ask you very much if we really want to have a real debate in this Chamber and not just to be limited to opposition krone, if you had any alternative proposal, here we are, to listen to it. In any case, however, because we have and have a responsibility to disguise market anxiety and because I know that many businessmen and restaurants, but also shoppers, had invested a great deal in this Christmas season, and in consultation with the financial staff, I would like today to announce another measure of protection and relief. For all the businesses affected by the restrictions, namely those that will stay closed at the holidays on the government's mandate, from retailing to focus, culture, sport, the rent is reduced for January and February by 80%. I repeat, by 80%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that's, I imagine, an antisocial measure, it's for big chapter, isn't it? Isn't it for small and medium-sized people who are struggling for how to pay their rent? So 60%, to be clear, will be compensated to the owners so that they do not have any further losses than they have today. Business will only pay 20% of the rent. If you pay 1000 euros, you pay 200 in January and February! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, advance payments 5 will be paid in January. There will again be a EUR 1000 aid threshold for businesses, free professionals, scientists, farmers with a turnover drop of over 20%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite the difficulties caused by the attack by COVID, despite the destruction of Anti-Population, despite this rhetoric that we have failed everywhere, Greece is changing. And I really wonder, Mr. Tsipras, how harmonized you are with a sense of society when you say that we have failed everything, in the economy, in health, in nationalities. I have the impression that the more difficult the situation within your party, the more you increase the tons of disaster. You said something that personally bothered me. You said that Greece was unfortunate to have this government. On July 7, we didn't throw dice, we didn't turn the coin! Greek citizens chose this government! It didn't come up in any other way! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I think that Greek citizens know very well that this government is doing the best it can in extremely difficult conditions and that is what credits us. And Greek citizens see the improvement of the country's competitiveness in the global ranking by nine positions, by six positions in the indicator of foreign direct investment. You talked about trust and destruction, about failure. The big companies, who come and invest in the crisis in Greece, come to invest in a failed country? “MICROSOFT” is coming to invest in a failed country? Is PFIZER coming to invest in a failed country? The Greek investments, which are mobilising important funds? Today there was a great announcement by a large Greek company for a top-down investment in the battery sector. These investments are being made in a failed country? These investors, who now come to risk their capital in Greece, do it to lose money, or why do they think that this country has important prospects for growth, for new jobs? And you know what, Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Gennamas? When we talk to the entrepreneurs who come to invest in Greece, they are, of course, standing in political stability, in the macro-economic environment, in reducing bureaucracy. Our important comparative advantage, however, is not that. It's the talent of our people. It is the fact that when big companies come looking, for example, for example, for data science, they find from the Greek public universities excellent graduates, whom they can hire and who are extremely satisfied with the work they do. And now, indeed, all these businesses have access to another pool of our fellow citizens. They are our five hundred thousand fellow citizens who have left the years of the crisis. For the first time, we have evidence that this Brain Drain, which so much hurt us and so much hurt us, begins and is reversed. When I was speaking to the CEO of PFIZER, who wants to expand the activity of PFIZER in our country, because he is so satisfied with the first stage of the investment he has made, he told me that almost one in the four CVs, of which the company is looking at, are from Greeks abroad who want to go back to Greece. All those people in a failed country want to go back, Mr. Tsipras? When you make the decision, there is a decision for those of us who have made it, for us to go home, not just for the work, for the remuneration, for the tax incentives that this government offers. We are doing so, and for one reason even deeper, that, in the end, we believe in the country's prospects, we are optimistic about our country, we are confronted with misery and darkness. We believe that this decade for our country can be a decade too much better. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we have too many foreign investment communications. Tomorrow there will be another very important announcement from a foreign company, which wants to come and invest in the electricity sector. A little patience, it will be announced tomorrow by me and the co-legislative ministers. So the 2021 budget is not a simple reference of figures, it is not even a comparison of sizes. It's a condensation of priorities. It is the summary of our programming guidelines. And despite the inherent uncertainty in its execution, which is entirely consistent with developments in the pandemic's forehead, it is another daring step towards the transformation of the national economy. Because this chronic unfinishedness is now becoming a timely necessity. The time has come for the country to acquire a sustainable, long-term, clear productive model, which will make it strong in a difficult, competitive environment, a model that will make use of its inexhaustible powers, will create new wealth, which will be distributed equally to all. The government has a coherent pattern of proposals from sixteen qualified scientists led by Professor Pissaridis. Sometimes when I hear you talk about the Pissaridis report, I wonder: Have you read it? Have you really read it? Because what you say about the Pissaridis report is what you imagine the Pissaridis report should say to adopt your own neoliberal policy accounts. But what you are talking about is not mentioned in the Pissaridis report! I would really like - and we will do so - to sit at a sitting in the House, see chapter - capital, proposal - and what the Pissaridis report says - that applies to you, Mr Tsipras, and to you, Mrs Gennamas, and finally see where we disagree with what is being said here. See also how, ultimately, neoliberals are these policies, which are presented in this text. They are proposals that are documented, tested by international experience. I shall submit the report on the Minutes. You want to give her an ideological mark. You want to get ready to see anti-reports, if I understand correctly. There is now anti-Pissaridis report. What exactly is anti-Pissaridis report? Why does it have to be "anti" in the Pissaridis report? Why cannot you take the Pissaridis report and say: I agree with that, and I disagree with that. Everything "anti" must be? White, like us, black you? But will the country finally move forward with that logic? Haven't you learned anything from your mistakes? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You put labels on something you're ignorant of. After all, you're talking about a man who's taken Nobel. You will get the Nobel of arbitrariness and ignorance with everything you say! I want to make it clear that this report does not match the government's programme. It is, however, an important, parallel contribution. It shares a common project. What's that? It is the increase of incomes, the growth of productivity and the reduction of inequalities. We share these with the Pissaridis report, as we agree with many - not all - of its proposals. Our country must finally attract investment with an incentive not to low wage costs, but to high labour efficiency in Greece Who can disagree with this? Who will say 'no' to proposals to reduce wage taxation? You said that, of course. There is no economist, except for some neomarxists, who may be moving in the circle of contacts by Mr Tsakalotou, who does not claim that today's major problem is the taxation of wage earners. And we're coming and we're reducing it. You say we disagree. No, employers' contributions must be too high in your view. Who will say 'no' to the dismantling of the public, to digital applications, which make communication easier and more transparent with the citizen? Failure there too? Failed to the seventy-seven agencies, which have been on the Internet. You, in other words, revolutionized digital policy with Mr Pappas responsible for space policy! Let's not forget that. What have you done just to digitize procedures in the public interest? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But let us not compare policies and performances. Will we agree that this is a right choice? Family protection: You raised the issues of gender equality, the limited participation of women in the labour force. This is all mentioned in the Pissaridis report. You haven't even read it! There is a disagreement about whether the second pillar of the subsidiary insurance system must be capitalised or not. Let's talk about it. There, I understand there may be some disagreements. But if opposition stands against this basic philosophy, then here, in addition to the defensive expenditure that you do not vote for, you must say in particular that you are voting against the specific proposals, which are financed by this budget. The minimum guaranteed income, the trillion, the subsidies of 100 thousand new jobs. Go out and say it. The compensation for the people affected by the natural disasters you did not support them. For the first time in the government it moved so fast to cover the very big financial damage our fellow citizens suffered in Thessaly. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you don't have to go that far to find out. Two phones to make, you'll find out what the truth is. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I said that this year's budget closes our accounts with the past and prepares us for the great bets of the future. And the vehicle in this new effort is the National Reconstruction Plan. It is an ambitious plan, which wants to close the large investment gap of the last decade, financing from European, national funds, private investment that will exceed EUR 90 billion over the next seven years, with four strategic pillars. I have heard Mrs Gennamas mention her proposals for the recovery plan. But I would like to remind you, Mrs Gennamas, that the recovery plan is not what we think and any provision we want to put in. It has very specific European standards, which we must respect. I didn't hear them. Green transition, digital transformation, labour strengthening...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u176	Apparently, you didn't hear or lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u177	Obviously, you didn't say that. But you said. Private investment - this you mentioned - through a comprehensive reorientation of the economy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u178	You can't say anything you want. I'll give you the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u179	I'm saying what I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u180	Come on, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u181	...to produce, to export, to innovation. These guidelines do not constitute a technical division. They have clear political and social content. More coherent social policy, a more effective welfare policy can only be financed through growth in the economy and through investment in peak areas. Digitalisation does not only save public resources. It serves the citizen and turns our country, for the first time, into a centre of newly created businesses active in the field of technology. And the 'green transition' is not an unpersonal title. It's a multifaceted action with a lot of winners. You said a few things. You have made some references to obligation - I would say - almost on the issues of climate change. But when you had to be placed on the substance of the matter, you said 'no' to the Greek Government's brave decision to close the lignite combustion plants in western Macedonia. The 'green transition', therefore, is an integrated action that helps quality of life, the national economy, attracts new investments. The EXOCONOMO - AUTONOMOS programme is perhaps the best example of such an action, which reduces the household's bill for heating and cooling costs, creates many new jobs, supports Greek industry, contributes to the overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. I saw, Minister, that the relevant funds for the continent have been exhausted in a few minutes. This means that this is a successful programme. And I assure you that we will mobilise as much resources as we can and if we do more than three billion, which we have put aside for the next three years, to support this programme, because it is an extremely successful programme. That is what I think is all about. This government has not been attached to ideological strangles. We have justified our political conviction that, yes, the public and private sectors can cooperate harmoniously, that we need to have a more state where we need it, such as health, as in welfare, less state where we do not need it, for example, in economic activity. In practice, we show that liberal ideas can be brought into line with state intervention, provided there is a clear delimitation of roles and a common compass for the general interest. And, of course, the budget also makes use of the intangible gain, which has arisen during the pandemic. It speeds up the resolution of chronic problems, for example, the sarcophagus of outstanding pensions. It's a story that's been arousing the country for decades. It is a problem that we have to deal with. The Ministry of Labour has made considerable progress in issuing new pensions, which I do not think is questioned by anyone. We still have considerable loose ends, as did all previous governments, in the awarding of old pensions. This is the first political priority for this government and we will take advantage of all our powers to clear up and deliver old pensions, which are now pending and suffering many of our fellow citizens. Before the coronary, teleworking and teleworking were almost unknown. Now, despite the original problems, they are tangible conquests. I saw that you rushed very quickly to criticise the Ministry of Education when a CISCO server fell in London. But now I have not heard any comment about the fact that our country is one of the few countries in Europe that can, in the midst of a pandemic, have all the departments from kindergarten to high school in digital classes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's a big success in the country! Why are you outraged? Did we have another choice? When schools are closed and closed because experts have indicated that we are closed, the second best we can do is enable our children to attend digital courses. And I have to tell you one more thing. Kids, especially the little kids...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u182	Please. Mr. Paphie, you keep talking, right, left, back, forward...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Paphie, you talk to Mr. Chakaloto all the time! I'm worried!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u184	I'm criticizing him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u185	Although in a recent survey I saw that SYRIZA voters prefer Mr Varoufakis for their best partner in a post-election cooperation rather than you, Mr Pafile. Maybe after five years and again this romance will be completed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u186	It's all right! We'll once win!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u187	In the field of research - and I close, Mr President, because I too have taken a long time - our scientists, with the support of the state, have created the first Greek rapid test koruna, which will soon be placed on the market. All of this constitutes weapons of the country during the battle against the coronary, but also after that, as it will be during the vaccination period, until the next day of the pandemic dawns, a day that we deserve, which can be brighter. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with these comments. In the next few weeks, our homeland will be called upon to measure itself with the new big bet of mass vaccination. It's another unprecedented challenge. There are no ready solutions, nor is there any crystallized experience. But there is the undeniable, unresolved need for this great exercise to be completed quickly and successfully. You know that, in consultation with the opposition parties, the government, at the initiative of the Minister for Health, organizes and implements a national vaccination plan so that the armour against the coronary reaches every Greek, every Greek, at every corner of the country, with a priority that the National Committee for Vaccines will determine with strict scientific criteria. Millions of vaccines should travel, be safely maintained, very often in conditions of increased cooling. They should be directed to a thousand eighteen special vaccination centres with sixty-five mobile units. This is a very complex exercise. The European Agency may give its approval for the first vaccine of PFIZER and a week earlier than we expected. We must therefore be prepared to launch this exercise. We will use technology, as we will use every means of communication, which is why we are not talking about a campaign but about a campaign. We will ask for the assistance of all the experts, scientists, bodies, chambers, the Church, the pharmacists, who will have a decisive role to play in how appointments will be closed especially for our elderly fellow citizens, and I am sure we will be able to carry out this very great exercise successfully. Attention, however, will be given to the threat of COVID until at least 60% of the Greek population is vaccinated. And, as you know, in most vaccines there are two defence cycles, so the commitment to protection measures must be continued. We'll wear a mask by using the vaccine, we'll wear a mask and then the vaccine. And the more the vaccination will go ahead, the more the virus will retreat and the sooner we can gain back control of our lives. In a few 24 hours, then, the national vaccination campaign begins. At the same time, it marks not the end of the beginning, but this time indeed the beginning of the end, the substance of which is fully one word: 'freedom'. This is what we will call this operation, 'Liberty Operation'. Freedom to live and to create healthy, free from the hostage and the compulsions of pandemic, freedom to return and reclaim high prosperity, freedom to celebrate in 2021 the two hundred years of freedom as a nation. So I close with a call: The budget for next year you hold it in your hands today, but the vaccine tomorrow is up to you all to do it. The optimistic day is, in fact, in our hands to build it with unity, with design and with confidence in our powers. I wish to all Greek women and all Greeks, many years, good holidays, above all with health! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Statement of the State Budget for the financial year 2021' and we will proceed to the vote. In addition to the six general and twelve special rapporteurs, six parliamentary representatives and two hundred colleagues, namely those who requested the floor, a total of thirty-four Members. Nineteen Ministers, four Deputy Ministers and four 14 Deputy Secretarys, i.e. thirty-seven members of the Government, and the six Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups. The five meetings lasted almost sixty hours. I would remind you that in the previous years, in 2019 and 2018, the meetings had lasted less, fifty-one or fifty-two hours, and they had spoken with fewer colleagues, two hundred-four and two-two respectively. The main thing, however, in the debate on the State Budget of 2021, is that there was no shortening of speaking time, because, basically, the time was respected by colleagues. They all spoke at least at the planned time and received the floor from the Parliamentary Representatives as many times as they requested, far more than the planned time. The vote on the budget for its revenue and expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic, the Presidency of the Government and each Ministry will be taken by roll-call electronic vote. As is well known, all the Ministries and Presidencies of the Republic and the Government have only costs, except for the Ministry of Finance, which obviously also has revenues with the budget. The state budget includes the budget of Parliament, which will not be taken into account again in this House, given that the Parliament's budget, as already adopted by Parliament at its plenary meeting on 19 November 2020, is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and has been registered without any change in the general budget of the State, on the basis of Rule 120(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that under Rule 123(7) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the vote on the budget for public investment and attached budgets, as well as on the budgets for the decentralised administrations referred to in Article 2 of the draft law, is carried out in turn, with an upward or upward trend. However, following a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2020 and due to particular health conditions, these votes will also be included in the electronic roll-call vote that will follow. I would like to remind you that the 50 Members who are allowed to be present, due to the speeches by the Heads, will vote electronically and the two hundred and fifty will vote by letter. Finally, as I have been informed, we will have a completely subtle change of this figure, voting for forty-nine, from what I understood, electronically and two hundred and fifty-one by letter. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u189	The House has obviously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u190	Here, ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the electronic roll-call vote. Those who accept the revenues of the budget, as well as the costs of each of the Ministry and the Presidency of the Republic and the Government vote 'NAH', those who do not accept it shall vote 'OH', those who do not vote 'NAH' or 'OH' vote 'OH'. Make sure that you have voted for all twenty-three separate votes. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u191	Is there a colleague who did not vote and wants to vote? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday 24 September 2020, in which they make their votes known on the budget. These votes will be tabled for the Minutes and will be taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u193	Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] Dismantling of the State Budget for the financial year 2021
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u194	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2021’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote that took place on the state budget was concluded. Please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of the sittings of 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 December 2020, including the debate and the budget vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u196	The requested authorisation was therefore granted. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-15-S1-commons.u197	With the consent of this House at no time, 21.11. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 16 December 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate, and b) discussion and decision on applications for waiver of immunity of Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
