ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 11 December 2020 to the House. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 219/12-20 topical question by MP Kilkis of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Collections of members of women, feminist organisations and political reasoning on November 25, World Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 220/1-12-20 by MP B1' North Athens Division of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Procedure for compensation due to the need for natural disasters in the Municipality of Heraklion Attica". 3. The 236/7-12-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Syntagakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Support measures for seasonal workers in 12 months' operation at the airports of Chania and Heraklion, tour operators, tourist offices, car rental offices, handling agencies, security, cleanliness, etc. of the Republic of Crete.’ 4. The Question No 224/3-12-2020 by the President of the Parliamentary Group and MP Larissa of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "They are affected by constant tax controls." 5. The 233/7-12-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aiolic in Andros: Scientists point out the dangers to the protected Spizaeto". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 223/12-2020 topical question of SYRIZA's MP Larisa - Progressive Alliance Mrs Anna Vageias - Kilaidonis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "An urgent need for emergency measures for the hospitals in Larissa". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The child rearing licenses are unlawfully tampering with the neo-determined teachers of special education." 3. The 237-12-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "To urgent measures to ensure the proper and secure functioning of special education schools in Crete". 4. The 234/7-12-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Public IEK of Western Athens: Illegal monitoring of telecommunications by directors". 5. The 239/7-12-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambous (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Deputy Prime Minister, responsible for communication and information matters, Mr Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: "As a matter for the legality of the contracts concluded on the information campaigns on the basis of exceptional pandemic restriction measures". 6. The 226/4-12-2020 topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Explanations for the competitive procedure of the IFET SA in terms of supplying two million rapid tests". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 238/7-12-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The scholarships of the IKY (Assembly of State Scholarships)" 8. The 235/7-12-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Kataristi in public hospitals: P.N.A. (Aghia Sophia Psychiatric Hospital) Daphne and Children "Aghia Sophia" receive government inertia against complaints about middle-age employment. 9. The question by No 229/6-12-2020 of the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Timetable of work of the "Patras - Tower" and the inclusion of "Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli" in the Recovery Fund". 10. The 230/7-12-2020 topical question by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Government has abandoned workers in the food and tourism sector". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1132/234-27-10-20 question and application for the submission of SYRIZA MP II documents - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "How is the public interest in the supply of equipment to be sorted at the source of the Special Inter-State Association of Attica (EDN)?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Completion of the renovation and development of the "Pananiou" (previous hospital)'. 3. The question, under number 1080/26-10-20, by MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Financing the carbonisation of the island's electricity system through the European Emissions Trading System (EU-ETS)". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that two questions will be discussed today. The second question will not be discussed under number 240/7-12-2020 in the context of a topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki, on the subject: "The unacceptable delay in granting the annual financial support of the sports clubs and bureaucratic delays in the Registry of Sports Unions". The first question will be discussed with number 225/4-12-2020 in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The need to keep bookshops open during the second lockdown". Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Minister, it is not my intention to make opposition 'Koreas' and to receive corresponding answers. My question to the Minister is very simple. I think any sense of common sense will agree. There would be no greater joy than me if this question helped to solve something that happened within the speed of the pandemic, in the need for measures, but it is wrong, and on the basis of reports from international organisations, such as the OECD, which shows that in the pandemic, education, health and culture are closely linked, but also in the light of the real circumstances. Minister, I believe that we should in conditions of lockdown, as there are shops, which have been classified as 'first necessity' in these bookshops. I think you need to rectify this uncontrollable. Small bookshops, and in general bookshops, are premises controlled. People who come to them are disciplined. It makes no sense to you to analyse the importance of a bookstore. It's a tool for the scientific community and research. It's a soul pharmacy. The small local bookstore is also the finest shop in education. There, that is, when the child gets his book, his pencil, what he needs to be able to continue his education, even as it is. E-commerce, not only, cannot replace the usefulness of the bookstore - the neighborhood bookstore, the neighborhood bookstore - but it cannot function at this time. It is well known that the couriers are now blocking. There's a huge delay. Also, in our view, a piece of bookshops is being strengthened, this part of the major bookshops that can be organized on this basis, to the detriment of all others. In conclusion, Mr President, I very modestly ask you to revise this wrong move by the government. I would also like to say here, Mr President, that with an initiative I had with the President of Parliament, the House Library and the Ministry of Culture are preparing a large package of books to set up libraries at the COVID units in hospitals. We are in the process of implementing this thing in consultation with the federation. This, Minister, shows the great need for the world from the book. It is not a luxury, it is a need which we must satisfy and we must cultivate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I have to tell you that I have been surprised since the beginning. You start very worldly and very nicely that you do not want to opposition with 'Koreas' and everything else. I read the first paragraph of your question: "The criminal strategy pursued by the Government of New Democracy to deal with the pandemic of the Koroniovius means that the Greek society is virtually powerless, while economic consequences appear in the hardest way in terms of many basic economic activities and professional sectors in our country. Although the advent of the second wave of the pandemic was a given". Excuse me, if you'd like to make opposition "knots", what would you write in your question? Your question is the model of the opposition 'Korea'. I have to tell you here that I am surprised. You probably didn't write it because the style of the conversation we're having here is quite different from the style of your questioning. So you are making opposition 'Koreas' and I am very sorry about that. I will tell you that you know that quarantine measures have been taken almost - not almost entirely - in all the countries of Europe. What criminal strategy are you talking about? There is no country in Europe today that has no lockdown. Now let's have a civilised debate of reasonable people. I'm throwing the question out as it is in the trash and we're going to have a regular conversation with the question, let's just as you did it before, where you made it in the right tone. Secondly, I am so glad that you recognize the value of the book. I'm so glad. To ask me this question today is a day of great justice. Do you know why? Because I have spent half my political journey, Mr President, listening to Mr Tsipras calling me "television dealer", considering that selling books on television is some kind of crime and some kind of garbage. Didn't anyone read that respect for books, Mr. Tsipras? So I am very pleased that you have said that. Obviously the book is very important and we obviously respect it. I myself, Mr President, have grown up in the books. All my work is books. You think I don't know that? Or do you say we have a special pleasure in closing all the businesses and small businesses - I will say the big ones - and causing so much damage to people? You, first of all, as a doctor, are well aware that quarantine measures have been taken following suggestions from your fellow doctors. They were not taken as a result of a government decision. It's not our policy to close shops. Because of the virus, we heard the expert advice. Let's go to that now. Obviously - I have announced it publicly - for several days at the start of the quarantine we have examined the possibility of opening bookshops. Because I do agree, and the Prime Minister's view was from the outset, that the book is a special thing, and possibly in the quarantine it could be more useful and turn people more into reading. Because Greece is lacking in other European countries in the use of the book as an instrument. We had a thorough discussion with the experts. We weren't allowed. We didn't get their assent. What for? For bookshops are quite enough, in Athens and Thessaloniki most, and they are over a thousand four hundred in total. So, in that sense, the idea that social mobility should be reduced was very feared by doctors that the pressure to open up bookshops and then another industry would eventually lead to the break-up of the quarantine and thus, to the slowest drop in the virus and thus to the greater pressure on the health system, as well as on all the others you know. After that, I'll close the protology so I won't consume time. What did we do? To help small bookshops, we banned the sale of books to supermarkets. This was a request from the small bookshops, which they told us "after we cannot sell, at least we do not sell books at supermarkets, and therefore our potential customers will not buy this month quarantine the books they would buy from us from supermarkets. Indeed, this request has been accepted, Mr President. We banned the sale of books by supermarkets, causing discontent in a lot of people and collecting political costs for this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u6	That's well known. The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u7	I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u9	I am sorry, Minister, because my question was clear and your answer was the crime of SYRIZA and the way in which SYRIZA puts the issues and the way in which the letter was written. No answer we got to what we asked you. It is clear that our disagreement with the government's policy is not on Lockdown, but on the measures you have taken. But that was not the subject of today's debate. I'll put it back to you again because you avoid answering. This will be a decisive answer. And it could really be consensual. I cannot understand exactly where this problem is. Listen. Thirty-seven countries have lockdown and bookshops are open. We have seen on television the exemplaryity with which they are waiting outside bookshops in Paris, Italy, Belgium and other countries. This could happen. The thousands of four hundred shops in Athens and Thessaloniki are not much. The way in which the world goes to these shops is usually religious. Therefore, in my view, today we could leave here with an answer, which - I understand - could not be 'yes, we will open them', but it could be'suck brother, whatever you know, we will see this thing'. Invoke the Committee on Limitology and Doctors. The Minutes have been requested. They've never given up. So I don't know how to tell you whether it's true or not. It's a matter of your personal speech. I don't want to question it. But the minutes have been requested. Also, the answer you give is "reasonable", you are Minister of such a Ministry, while the book is a little different. I didn't tell you why you banned books at supermarkets or where else you have to ban books. I say to you that we must allow books, which are a different approach to the same thing, but from the way in which we approach this issue the solution will be given. So ban books on five other things. That's not the request today. The request is "Let books, let books go, let small bookshops in the neighborhood, let out the native bookshops, let all those who cannot respond to e-commerce", which, like you said, is what you said as a man who sells books, you know. Today is an opportunity, I say again, not to say "Yes, Musala, the bookshops will be opened." - I understand that this is not the case - but tell the Greek people today that - this thought has a common sense, which people understand - we will try to see what is going to happen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u11	I repeat, Mr President, that in principle we agree on the need to survive bookshops and the first opportunity to open bookshops. I have already stated, as a competent Minister, in public, many times, that among the first retail shops we will be opening when we return to the functioning of the market will also be books. We have said that the first speed of opening will include games, books, flowers, hairdressers, generally spaces that have a seasonality. So I've already put the books at the first speed, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u12	The hairdressers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u13	For another world, hairdressers are the books for another world. Don't underestimate the need for a lady to go to the hairdresser, Mr. Muzala, don't be so cynical at last in life. There's a need for some people too. Don't be racist with people. So that kind of depreciation for the hairdressers? So you're surprised if someone's not going to the hairdresser and you're saying that with such disgrace? Why are you doing this? You're inadmissible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u14	The deportation is yours to the bookstore...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u15	Well, I come back and say that I consider racism what you did to all the ladies and gentlemen who call us every day and say, "When will the hairdressing be opened?" You said it in one way, as if anyone who wants to go to the hairdresser is a second-stage person. Well, I'm closing my parentheses, you're embarrassed. Let's go to the bookshops now. I said at first speed it'd be bookshops. I told you why they didn't open. They did not open up the attempt to deal with the coronary, not because it was what the government wanted. On the contrary, I told you that we examined the first days of Lockdown very thoroughly if we could open them up, but at the end of the day, if you remember, they were going up at quite high speed and not downwards, this frightened the experts and forced the government to stop trying to open them at the beginning. Now they're gonna open up from the first place I told you. But let me say something in general, Mr President. We are fully aware that the market is now at a very critical point and I am thinking of the market that is being done by electronic commerce and distance orders. I'm doing a parentheses. My colleague said that small bookshops can't sell via the Internet. Above all, this is not entirely true. Too many bookshops have now built websites and sell books online. We also make an ESRB programme, which will have been announced by the end of the year, which will give a substantial amount of money to each company, the small business, which will wish to build a serious and powerful electronic page so that it can make electronic sales in a professional and proper way. Because whether you like it or not, Mr Muzala, whether I like it or not, e-commerce has entered our lives and will be after the quarantine. So they must also learn to sell small bookshops in this way, if they want to survive, otherwise they will not survive and we must help them to survive. So we'll give them money to do it. Today we are at a crucial point, because courier transport has been blocked, can no longer receive many orders, orders are not delivered, the delay is too long. This is an additional imperative objective and a goal for us to open up retail trade more quickly, so that we do not destroy the world. The government is trying to bring together, Mr President, two conflicting problems, which unfortunately create a very difficult puzzle, on the one hand, the need to reduce the incidents and tackle pandemic and reduce the pressure on the health system, which we all realise is the first one, and, on the other hand, to operate, even in a fundamental way, trade in order not to destroy businesses and to lose the world of its work. Here we are now and within this week there will be communications of this kind. I would ask you to give him time, if possible, Mr President, and if so, to revise what he said about hairdressing. He was unacceptably racist the way he said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u16	Do you want to say something about this, Mr. Muzala?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u17	I just want to say, I didn't do hairdressing. Mr. Minister is deceiving bookshops. There's nothing else I can talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u18	Okay. We move on to the first with number 802/20-10-20 questions by Mr Hercules Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'To compensate directly the oil producers and the other producers for the damage they suffered from the extreme weather events'. My guess is that yesterday's report is on 19 October. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Exactly, on 20 to 22 October we had extreme weather phenomena. But not all of this has been achieved, but on the 6th to 10th November, additional weather phenomena in the areas affected by the producers and in October have caused widespread damage to agricultural production. So we've had a lot of damage in the past period. The issues are specifically: First of all, we must see how the process of recording the first losses has gone and second and most important, which follows, is whether in these areas, which have similar characteristics to the disasters made by the 'January', the assessments and personalities of the damage are progressing, as the ELGA should have done and progressed, but with a procedure that is additional bureaucratic and burdensome for the insured. Our question is, therefore, whether the government intends to rethink its position in relation to the damage to Crete so that those of the second period are included in a procedure similar to that of the coronary, rather apologies to the Janus - we are also involved in the causes of damage, many times. The damage of 'January', which took place in Thessaly, went faster and without additional costs because of a regulation by the Ministry of Rural Development. We are also asking for Crete, and we want you to see the issue that has arisen with the compensation that you have rightly decided on, for greenhouses, but which seems to be a problem with regard to the determination of the IACC declaration, which concerns the production that has been affected. As the greenhouse owners say it is also about 2019, the so-called "opportunities", which are lately coming to state for the following year and statements of the same year, 2020, that is, about the next period. It was at the cut-off and related to producers of both the 2019 SEA and the 2020 SEA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, there were damages caused by hails, mainly on 19 and 20 October 2020, in the wider area of the island of Crete, in the Regional Unit of Heraklion in the Municipality of Hersonissos and Maleviziou, in the Regional Unit of Chania in the Municipality of Chania and Platania, in the Regional Unit of Lassithi in the Municipality of Agios Nikolaos and Lassithi, and in the Regional Unit of Rethymno in the Municipality of Mylopotamos and Rethymno on various crops, mainly olive crops and citrus crops, avocado crops, gardening and gardening. Fifty two announcements. A total of three thousand three hundred injury claims were submitted. For Heraklion Regional Unit, nine hundred and twenty-two declarations were submitted for Lassithi Regional Unit seven hundred eighty-nine, for Chania Regional Unit, two hundred and seventy-five, and for Rethymno Regional Unit a thousand three hundred fourteen declarations. The work of personalized assessments has begun. It is expected to be completed in January 2021. In order to ensure the timely completion of the allowances, the branch of Heraklion has, in addition to the permanent geotechnical staff, been entrusted with fourteen other geotechnics through Article 20 of Law 2190/94. In the coming days there will be an uptake of six more seasonal geotechnics. Overall, the work of assessments is carried out by twenty-seven geotechnics. The region visited an ELGA government step, with the President of ELGA, for the on-site autopsy of the disasters. Instructions were given for speeding up procedures and for the rapid payment of compensation. Subsequently, there were heavy rainfall, in fact, on the 6th to 10th of November 2020 and damage to plant production was caused, mainly in the crops of open horticultural and oil crops and other trees, as well as in livestock. We have losses of ovine and caprine animals and apiculture. In the case of plant production damage, thirty-three declarations were submitted for livestock capital, 221 notifications and ninety-two losses for CSE's programmes. The procedure is therefore initiating. It moves fast. It's moving with additional staff. In your question, if we are going to implement the legal provisions of the 'January', and in this particular case, I have already answered. I've responded negatively. I answer, once again, negatively. Why? Because 'January' was an extremely extensive phenomenon. It was not a process of damage, one of the things that in any case there are very often in agricultural production. These procedures do not change the status of ELGA as a whole. This change was only for the 'January', mainly due to the unique intensity and extent of these extreme weather phenomena there. Otherwise, this procedure is being followed and there is no cause for concern from our producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u22	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. The President of ELGA who visited Crete, on a step in Crete, stated to the region that he would ask the Government for the extent of damage, the acidity with which the phenomena, the range that has been taken in other sectors, to have a similar procedure to the 'Janu'. It is therefore an issue that the ELGA himself has raised, not from beyond. Intensified phenomena, in many cases more acidic than the case of Thessaly. However, it is not only the question that it was more acute than certain areas that were incorporated into the relevant law, which was adopted by Parliament, Mr 4737. This is the general situation, which prevails. I would say that you should think that the burden, for example, should not exist in order to consider a request for compensation from weather conditions at this time. In addition to the enormous damage, we have a loss of income, we have an extraordinary situation that the country is experiencing. What, for example, do we say to the beekeeper? Pay 2 euros per hive to examine your application! What do we tell the other producer? He paid so much to check it out. So it is an issue that you already had to deal with on your own. However, when the President of the ELGA publicly raises the question of need - because he found himself in the face of a huge disaster - that these disasters should also be included in such a process, it cannot be the Minister's answer - and it must be the Minister's response. In any case, we are obliged to put it through the parliamentary procedures provided for, to show this need, to help you review it. It can't be done! Is he in the name? Would you like me to write the name of the Meteorological Service? When the phenomenon is stronger, it is not a name issue, if it was called 'Janus', 'Erypides' or I don't know how else. Unfortunately, we have an answer which does not satisfy - not me - the needs is inconsistent with the situation that prevails. I would therefore say that if the President of the ELGA was wrong, you are right, but if the President of the ELGA did not make a mistake - that is what has been done so far - then he is wrong with the Ministry and you need to rethink it. The greenhouse problem has arisen in the past few days. I had the opportunity to inform you directly. I don't know if you've examined it if you've seen if it's true. This is an issue, however, which seems to exclude too many people. I would also like to ask you, and if you have an assessment of the small oil producers, who are in the special scheme - if you have, because they are not in the question - who have an income below EUR 5,000 and below EUR 15,000 income - I am referring to the small producers of the special scheme - to what percentage they have joined in a compensation procedure based on 126 million. I ask you if there's an evaluation. Otherwise, I will come back with another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u24	Minister, on the question. In the rest, if you want, answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u25	By respecting your directive, Mr President, which, as you know, I have been following - I am speaking on questions, despite the fact that Members often open the debate more widely or go to other matters - I just want to say that the two issues which have been raised by my colleague are being kept, in order to look at them. One thing I think is going to solve. The other one will consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u26	Who's getting valued?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u27	That theme of greenhouses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u28	I asked you whether you have any news about subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kegeroglu, what do we do now? Don't answer that, Minister. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Muzalas...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u31	All right, all right, all right. If you say it privately. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u32	On the other point, you are wrong. You will allow me - I am not cuffed now - to provide you with information. Why am I saying that you have and allow me to provide you with information? Why did you compare the destruction of "Janu" to the specific event of these weather events in Crete. Comparison is unfortunate. It is unfortunate at the level of straitjacket effects, it is unfortunate at the level of damage and it is unfortunate and at the level of the catastrophe. There is no analogy on all three levels. So listen. It is a debate to go back to say that we want a more efficient ELGA - I am prepared to discuss this - whoever approachs matters at different speeds. We're already working a lot on it. We have already improved speeds too much. We've already made too many recruitments. We are already making staff movements on various points, so that we can deal with the acceleration of compensation. We have already brought the compensation closer, because we have supported the ELGA by sums, which has not been done in the past 15 years. So we have already done a lot of things for the ELGA, and these are what our producers see, and they see the importance we give to the issue of faster and more accurate payment and we will continue to do even more. Digital ELGA is on its way. We'll keep working on the estimates. It will be more objective and more rapid and fairer assessments. We are therefore working on creating a better ELGA and that already has results. It's not a future thing, it's not something we're talking about at some point. However, if we say that we will be changing to every weather phenomenon - which I accept has a intensity greater than usual, but which does not take the character of this great catastrophe that we have seen throughout the past period - then we should actually apply this to any damage. So this is something that will not be done. I've clarified it. On the day when we voted in Parliament, Mr President, I made it clear that the provisions of the 'January' are being used for 'January', they will not be translated into general provisions. They are used for this exceptional phenomenon with this very large area and the adverse consequences. I will remain in what I have said in the House since then, perhaps because I had predicted that there is going to be an argument to widen the use of these special provisions, but there has been no governmental intention and no government commitment and, in any case, we cannot do it, because that means different conditions for the operation of the ELGA, which is another more debate. So our position is clear. However, if you have a claim that the disasters in Crete were greater than the disasters of the 'January' - because that is what I heard - then let me bring you comparative information, so that we can see the sizes, so that we do not reopen this argument, because it is dead and it is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u33	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before entering the agenda for the legislative work, we will have a 10-minute sanitary break. About 10:00's will start the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Confidentiality Regulations, provisions on the Welfare Fund for Security Bodies and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection". Mr. Chrysochoidis is on his way. I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Committee on Forestry is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Reorganising the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations and renamed it to an Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, promoting the cultural heritage abroad, arrangements for the Historical Museum of Crete and the Museum for Phoevos Anogianakis" and other provisions of the Ministry of Culture and Sport." The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 3 December 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives, as well as the ministers who will be naturally involved, to add two courses of speakers to this debate through teleconferencing, via the 'Webex' platform. Each cycle will include twelve speakers with the following ratio, five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one from the other four parties. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u35	The House has agreed. We shall begin with the rapporteur-general, Mr Andreas Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is introduced for debate in the House - after the procedure has been followed by the relevant committees and the hearing of the bodies - the draft legislation under discussion by the Ministry of Civil Protection, which contains forty-three articles and refers to matters of penitentiary law of the Police Fund and other provisions. The Government brings forward and adopts this draft law by attempting and hoping, in its intervention, to resolve issues that have been created and in need of legislative intervention. It intervenes, because the existing legal framework is impossible as a result of a change in the Treaties to give solutions to the new needs arising or new needs arising which require the update and supplementation of the legal framework. Through the new social conditions, the real conditions created, the increased service needs for a more efficient administration and performance of services, I think no one doubts that this initiative is necessary and required by the government. A modern state for its proper functioning must be adapted to the new data. This is the justification for this legislative intervention. Efforts to adopt a single legislation, the need to amend and reform many of them, and to update provisions are necessary so that the state can respond to ever changing needs. The existing legal framework doubtless had changes and corrections to cover weaknesses and imperfections due to a change in circumstances. As I said, Part I refers to matters of penitentiary law. Before entering the substance of the bill, I will put some thoughts to the plenary and colleagues on the situation of the penitentiary system. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a joint finding that in recent years we have been facing a prison eruption. The increase in violence, crime, new imported violence, new ways and methods of committing crimes - crimes, crimes, increased infractions, but also the effectiveness of police forces have led to the overpopulation of prisoners and the pooling of detention stores. All this, along with the fact that there is a lack of infrastructure and a lack of economic resources has led all these years - and I am making a reference, because we all have a past and there is, if you want, political responsibility for shortcomings or omissions - to increase the problem, despite legislative initiatives over time and the efforts of the state and all governments to tackle the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, problems in the penitentiary system existed, there are and there will be. However, we have an obligation under judicial decisions, international conventions and European law to step up efforts to reform the system through changing conditions in society. All our actions must respect basic principles such as the principle of legality, the improvement of the living conditions of detainees and the protection of these rights and, above all, the security of society with a single objective, the social reintegration of prisoners. The main prerequisite for improving the functioning of the penitentiary system is the upgrading of the logistics infrastructure and the qualitative and quantitative coverage of staff needs. It is necessary to separate the detainees according to the nature of the act and the imposed penalty and decongested prisons through the creation of new detention stores. The crowd is phenomenal and short-lives every effort to upgrade living conditions and implement social reintegration programmes. This is a truth which we all have to accept. With a view to establishing through this draft law of an organised General Secretariat of Crime Policy, measures must be adopted to improve the existing situation, based on the view of the whole problem at three levels: legislatively with the criminalisation - decriminating acts of delinquency, the judicial level in terms of the nature and level of penalties and the penalisation of penalties in an objective manner. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to the essence of the bill. Part I of the bill therefore attempts to reform the penitentiary system and to establish a more modern institutional framework, adapted and based on the experiences of recent years, in order to meet the current increased needs, namely the establishment of a framework for the functioning of the penitentiary based, as I have said, on the legality and rights of detainees. In summary, there is an attempt to dismantle the detention treatment stores, an effort to reorganise them to meet the operating needs of their structures and strengthen them with skilled staff, so that they can meet the current needs of the system and the modern rule of law. Finally, the procedure for granting the permits of prisoners and the right to draw up the sentence in rural prisons is changed. There are, of course, issues relating to the health and safety of detainees. I'm going to stand by some basic provisions. Article 1 provides for the setting-up of a Central Transport Committee and the modus operandi. It is an attempt to avoid aggregation of patients detainees in the treatment shops for examination and hospitalization. In other words, the procedure for the import of detainees to the hospitals - institutions - is defined and provision is made for the provision of care by the hospitals of the place of detention or the regional unit belonging to the detention shop. It specialises in the licensing regime and regulates the medical care of detainees, permits. In other words, Article 55 of Law 2776/1999 is amended. Article 2 regulates - it is very important - the proper functioning and proper control of prisons, as well as the mandate of the College of Control Inspectors, i.e. the functioning of regular and extraordinary checks to investigate criminal offences within detention or health inspections and, above all, the treatment of corruption. The conditions are laid down for the rights of prisoners to build the sentence on agricultural prisons and of course other organisational issues are resolved. Part II of the bill calls for the necessary amendments to the Social Welfare Fund for Security Bodies, as it is called, in order to be able to respond more effectively to the needs of it and its members. It has been found that there is a delay and a malfunction in addressing service needs and problems and services objectively due to deficiencies, poor organisation, new data and increased needs cannot respond to their mission. They do not perform their work and generally make the administrative work difficult and not just the current Ministry. The provisions in question are designed to ensure the smooth and efficient functioning of the Ministry's services. Current conditions, progress in all areas and changes that have taken place at all levels require a new perception of how to deal with problems through a new perspective, realistic, modern and effective to examine service issues. It is necessary to strengthen and streamline the staff of both the Ministry and the General Secretariats of Criminal and Civil Protection. It is necessary to strengthen human resources by scientific staff and to staff neuro-algal positions and services with individuals who can meet the increased demands of the state, civil society. That is what is being done with these provisions, and that is what is being dealt with in the draft legislation. There are other provisions. However, I will dwell on one, which I think is important and refers to electronic surveillance. I would repeat that I consider that a further bill should be extended, Minister, this measure of the institution of electronic surveillance. It is a necessary measure, which will also lead to decongestion, but it will solve many social problems. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close, I should like to convey some thoughts and thoughts that have been born these days with the debate on the bill, which are out of the contents of the bill. I see and see these days that there is a political nervousness on the part of the Major Anti-Population side, which leads to unholy action, to the deterioration of political speech and, if you like, to the deterioration of Parliament in general with an anti-parliamentary attitude that the President of Parliament must take seriously. Why is that? Explain? Of course it explains. The lack and inability to confront political arguments in the government work by Major Opposition leads to this expression of political speech. No one is claiming today through this crisis that we are experiencing everything is going well. But in a difficult period of time there is an effort and I think that we must all contribute to it. The fact that society does not follow you leads you to these political mistakes, to these political slips, which in no way contribute to the proper functioning of Parliament, to the proper functioning, if you like, of the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to return to the bill. The draft law under discussion makes the necessary and necessary interventions to resolve the problems that have arisen. Clearly a bill will be judged in its course and a provision of the need to respond to its functionality. Here it is - and it will always be - that the government is willing and ready to accept comments and every time to amend for the better and correct these imperfections. But it is certain that there is good intention on the part of the government to create a bill, a law and a penitentiary system that meets the current needs, which is in line with and is in line with European law and which meets modern social conditions. With these considerations, I think that there is no reason, there is no question of ideological controversy, and since the bill attempts to solve problems, you must all contribute with your positive vote in the vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u37	The general rapporteur from SYRIZA, Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Civil Protection entitled 'Confidentiality Regulations, provisions on the Welfare Fund, Security Officers and other provisions of the Ministry of Civil Protection'. In the midst of pandemic and while mass incarceration spaces have been transformed into sanitary bombs and outbreaks of coronary overtransmission, while still prevailing, as the majority rapporteur in the first debate of the committee responsible for administrative malfunctions in prisons, rather than complying with strict protection measures, mass diagnostic tests and the first priority of the ministry to be the even mild decongestion of prisons with increasing permits, according to what the EGE has recommended, but also the European Commission, the Ministry, chooses to bring the draft under discussion, to change the agenda and obviously to motivate the ears of its far-right audience. Instead of doing what is self-evident in the pandemic, which is afflicting society, prisons, prisoners and workers in them, as almost all European countries do, it acts in the completely opposite direction, and it seems that the Minister's new bill of imprisonment will restrict the right to permits, how he will increase sentences, how he will deprive him of his ability to move to rural prisons, how he will forever forget the international institution of social work, instead of imprisonment. Seriously ill, disabled, detained with small sentences that would soon be released, overnumbers that are outbreaks of infection and all prison populations as a whole, are left to the fate of the Ministry and the pandemic. The bill under discussion threatens society and does not protect it, as the excessive severity of penalties and the misery of prison conditions will lead to new crimes. The bill reflects the anti-discrimination created by the division of powers between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Order, with the Ministry of Justice on the one hand regulating the system of our sentences and with the Ministry of Public Order on the other hand regulating the execution of sentences within the penitentiary systems. This is an incredible anti-corruption that will lead us to problems, which I do not know how we can solve in the future. It is not in the nature of the administrative and operational mechanisms of the Ministry of Public Order, because they are very close to repression, to perceive the issues of penitentiary. In the first part of the bill "Confidentialities of penitentiary legislation" and in particular in Articles 1 and 3, you illustrate the doctrine "Law and Order" and suppress the top two rights of the prisoners, by stepping up the biggest problem of Greek imprisonments that are inflation and endangering physical and mental, mainly the integrity of thousands of prisoners and workers in the penitentiary institutions. When the rest of the developed countries take steps forward by investing in the three-fold'security - humanism - reintegration', we leap back, because the licenses of the prisoners and the possibility of creating the penalty in rural prisons are protagonists and key institutions of reintegration. Back to the Middle Ages, then, for our penitentiary stores! There is a violation of acquired rights of years and all concepts of prison are abolished, with detainees being at the mercy of the Ministry of Civil Protection. You are augmenting the framework for the granting of regular permits, transforming the minutes into an inappropriate dream and using the creative arithmetic of the New Democracy once again. 95% of the prisoners are serving sentences from six to twenty years and 90% of them, according to your bill, will not get licenses, as in order for a prisoner to apply for a licence with the new changes, he must have completed 2/5 of his sentence, a time limit that allows him to apply at the same time, since the criteria in most cases coincide. Is there anything more extreme and absurd than that? Also, if these provisions apply, they actually favour prisoners who do not work in Greek prisons. They are prisoners who do not offer much more in terms of work within prisons. Should it not be working in the opposite direction, that is to say, that prisoners working in prison should be granted a premium, which shows an honest and unfavourable attitude? Is it not the target who helps to re-entry them later? You're saying your regulation is about a small group of prisoners, but it's actually about everyone. Under no circumstances serves to reinstate the prisoner. What is it possible for a prisoner to do with life that has never been licensed and released? The most likely is to commit a crime again and go back to prison. It is clear that your purpose is not the smooth reintegration of the prisoner into society, but the gradual invasion of the prisoner. In fact, I cannot understand the connections you have made and you have been driven into this extreme arrangement. Does the larger portion of the penalty ensure, in your view, good use of the licence? What is the relationship between an increase in the penalty and a reduction in the duration of the licence? It was also asked by the Citizens' Counsel, who invoked their own investigation in 2015-2020 conducted following the collection of questionnaires from all detention stores in Greece. It appeared that, at a vast percentage of 98%, the conditions for licences were respected. Why since only 2% of detainees who are licensed, are not returning, or are late to return, are you punishing the remaining 98% of detainees who make good use of this? Of course, the Minister did not provide us with information to the committee. Of course, there are neither studies nor opinions of special scientists in favour of your view and of the bill. This regulation is the result of the ideological obsession of the New Democracy. More stringent conditions are also laid down for the transfer to rural prisons and the central warehouse of prison material, not only for those who have been sentenced for terrorist offences, but also for prisoners who do not fulfil the conditions for authorisation or who have waived the reason for its grant or have been subject to disciplinary action or have been pending criminal proceedings for criminal offences to the extent of a crime involving acts of violence or a threat of violence. In fact, the regulation leads to the abolition of agricultural prisons. Again, the provision concerns all prisoners and not a small part, as the government is trying to communicate in order to avoid social reactions. So for someone to be transferred to rural prisons, he must have served 2/5 of his sentence, so again the prisoner will have been released. The 2/5 actual building with more than ten years sentence is inappropriate, since by 1/5 the prisoner is released. In essence, rural prisons will have 10% -12% full of them, where few sentences will be carried out for one month to forty days. In this way, we have already reached over 200% and 300% in all the other penitentiaries, and your government will claim that the Greek prisons are not overcompensated, since there are vacant posts in rural areas, in which no one will be able to go substantially. In other prisons today there are people who literally sleep on the floor. I present myself to the Minutes in which the Director of the School of Prisons denounces this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Sultana Eleftheriadou, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You, with this data, while people are sleeping on the floors in closed prisons, want to effectively abolish agricultural. Finally, we must admit that the conditions of detention in rural areas are more favourable, although the prisoners are again deprived of their freedom and, at the same time, they are working hard to benefit from the beneficial measurement of the sentence. We're asking the Minister if he wants there to be rural prisons. The law on isovites has been in the age of the Papalegura era since 2004 - Member and Minister of the New Democracy - and today, 90% of the detainees are barbies, and if they are excluded, the four rural shops in our country will not be able to work for the needs of their production. To close the issue of permits and transfer to rural prisons, I would remind you once again that these two arrangements of the bill run completely counter to Article 3 of the Penitentiary Code: "It is forbidden to discriminate against the prisoners. Any distinction may be made only in their favour and in the interests of the specific needs arising from the situation in which they are situated. Prisoners are equal. The execution of the sentence is a piece that has to do with the face and not with the act. The person is what remains incarcerated, remains in prison, with a prospect of social reintegration. The sentence was imposed on him and recognised by the court on the basis of the incomprehensibility of his act, but in no case does he justify an unfavourable treatment during the creation of the sentence.’ During the debate in the committee, all of your bodies have tabled statements that have substantiated these two provisions of the bill and have asked you to withdraw them. We submitted scientific studies to you, showing that your Government supports things that were not even supported in 1936. We also tabled a report saying that New Democracy had passed article 41 of Law4356/2015, which now goes to abolish, because the far right-wing agenda has obviously now been dominated. You have also failed to bring in a transitional provision, as the Federation of Penitentiary Officers has asked you, for those who have already been transferred to rural prisons, that is about eight hundred people in four rural prisons. In Article 1(2), you may conclude contracts with external doctors and nurses for detention stores where he is not serving permanent health personnel. What you do not do is recruiting permanent medical staff and nursing staff. In Greek prisons there are currently sixty-seven nurses and thirty-four detention shops and one-digit number of doctors. Also, you do not take into account that in most prisons there are no hospitals and, of course, there is no number of nurses and doctors to support the patients of prisoners who will go, as provided for in the provision of the law you bring to this bill. We therefore consider it impossible to apply this provision. In Article 2, the Booking Store Inspection and Control Body since July 2019 has been effectively stopped working. We want to ask and ask the committees, without getting any answers, if inspectors have been added, how many people have come in and why the House has fallen dead. You brought a provision that increased the organic positions and then nothing. So I think this article you are now bringing is pure hypocrisy. With regard to Articles 4 and 5, we are generally opposed to the transfer from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection of Institutions and Responsibilities. With regard to Articles 6, 7 and 8, it is now shown that Mrs Nicholas, the 'Mrs. of the scandals', has been given over power in accordance with the papers. Mr Paulakis told you in detail at the meetings of the committees, and he also submitted to you all the documents that prove that this lady should not have such a high-level position, let alone a minister in this bill. To tell you the truth, I was also asking the committees, but here too, if the Minister's position should come today. I repeat that you have created a ministry inside the Ministry. You recommend four new organic units and hire a hundred and thirty people by creating new organic positions in the General Secretariat of Crime Policy. In fact, the thirty positions are Secretaries and not scientific staff, sociologists, psychologists, forensicists. We hope that this does not relate to the free transfer of special external guards, which you also legislate in Article 14, because then you understand that you are undersubmiting the already subordinated penitentiary stores. Also, the fact that after a year and a half after the creation of the General Secretariat you continue to set up organic units and addresses, you continue to play with poster and hire hundreds of employees proves that you are legislating without any plan and having in mind serving other than public interests. Seeing and doing here, then, as in health, as in the economy, where "seeing and doing" was disastrous for society. In Article 9, you are assisting the legal person of private law. It is under the supervision of the Ministry of Civil Protection, annexes are established and organic positions are increased. Finally, each Minister creates in his ministry his own vilaeti, appoints directors, places heads, posted officials, decides on his own and implements. You strengthen a legal person without effective action and you do not support the Social Aid curator and the Minors' Services. In comment to the consultation, the Board of Directors of "EPANOVO" reacted to the administrative supervision of the legal person of private law by the Minister and we also agree, as we are generally opposed to the supervision by the Ministry of Civil Protection, which is in complete contrast to the reintegration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a few more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u39	You won't have a few minutes. You'll have one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u40	Yes, I will, Mr President. In Article 10, supervision and monitoring shall remain in the Committees appointed by the Minister of Justice, while expenditure shall be borne by the General Secretariat of the Court of Justice budget. We are generally opposed to transferring him to the Ministry of Civil Protection. With regard to Articles 11 and 12, on the renewal of contracts, we agree, but we want to point out the government's indifference to the completion of notice 6K and the announcement of the sixty-nine additional staff seats in the prisons approved in SYRIZA. As far as Article 13 is concerned, we are in agreement. The ideal, of course, would be to be accompanied by doctors and nurses or alternatives, depending on what the treatment team decides. With regard to Article 14, for the transfer of officials, despite the fact that a ban on transfers of external guard staff has been introduced - only SYRIZA gave them the right to be transferred between prisons - you are now giving them the opportunity to go everywhere and this in connection with Article 8, as we said before, can lead to the repression of prisons. As far as Articles 15, 25 are concerned, we have no particular comment. Special guards and police officers from special guards shall not be represented on the board. That is what they have pointed out to you during the debate in the committees. As regards Article 26, the provision is of particular interest in view of the mass recruitment of special guards, which may not be equivalent to empty organic posts. In the last notice of special guards, of course, the conversion of organic police posts had been liberated. With regard to Article 27, for clubs, we have an objection to the payment from the club fund of members' educational and cultural activities. With regard to Rule 28, on the matter of competence of the Citizens' Counsel, I think that we have been told by the Citizens' Counsel and we are in agreement on why scientific officials should be permanently transferred to this service. With regard to Article 29, we are calling for the measure to be extended to both OTA workers and grade 2 and hospitals. With regard to Article 30, on the introduction to the School of Police of those who were affected by the catastrophic tragedies of 2017 and 2018, we believe that the provision is accompanied by political purposes, reintroducing the timeliness of the major tragedies. In any case, there was provision for introducing these individuals into higher education as well as other measures to relieve them. In Article 31, we agree. Since Article 32, there is no bill in consultation. We must make that clear. These articles were not in the consultation. With regard to Article 32, on matters of competence of the Directorate-General for Economic Services and the Staff Planning of the Ministry of Civil Protection, it is another provocative provision. Once again, general provisions are being circumvented, standardized, and no worthwhile process is being observed. Article 33 speaks of retroactiveness in payments. Obviously, you want to incorporate costs that have been incurred in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u41	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, please close. Secondary, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u42	Yes, Mr. President, I will close. The question of Article 34 has been raised in detail in committee. With regard to Article 35 and the disposition of confiscated people, it is good that hospitals and welfare structures can take out of these confiscated ones. In Article 36 for the Police School, we spoke in detail about the Committees. I also tabled the President-in-Office's decree written on SYRIZA governance, but you seem to have taken no account of what we have said and also of what the institutions have said. There's no real graduation of the Police School. You need to see it in a future bill. In article 37, again photographic...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u43	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, I'll turn off the microphone. Please hang up now. You won't make fun of me for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, give me a minute and I'll close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u45	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u46	I'll come to article 41. We are in favour first of all, but we believe that this article will be empty because you have not created the conditions for these minors to go to protective structures and not to police departments. Even at the last moment, change your overconservative and antisocial perception of penitentiary. The people have commanded you to save the prisoners, not to destroy them. We are against this bill because it is obsessive, anachronistic and unacceptable, and of course we will not vote on it. I'm sorry about the abuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u47	Excuse me, not me, but your colleagues. The special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Kaminas, has the floor. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The choice of the Greek legislator for many decades is not to have the penitentiary system of punishment, but penitentiary, with the ultimate aim of reintegrating prisoners. The institution of the permits has existed since 1989 and the department has been the Penitentiary Code of 1999, which was recommended by the then Minister of Justice Evangelos Giannopoulos with Minister of Public Order at that time Mr Michael Chrysochoidis. The same objective of prison and social reintegration is pursued by the institutions of rural prisons, since it is an opportunity for the prisoner to return to society. For these reasons, when the legislator chooses to amend to the strictest extent the conditions for which prisoners may gain access to such benefits, he must at least justify such a change. However, we see there is no evidence here that stricterisation, no study, no suggestion from any prison board, no scientific research. The only reason we hear is that prisoners violate the terms of permits and that there are escapes in rural prisons. What's he doing about this ministry? Instead of considering which criteria the Prison Council has granted authorisations to prisoners who have violated their terms or accepted the transfer to rural prisons without a thorough crisis, it goes and increases in abstracto, that is, in general and abstract terms, the limits of the sentences that allow a prisoner to seek permission or transfer to a rural prison. This is a horizontal measure which, by definition, causes injustices since it applies equally uniformly to fair and unjust persons. The same is true of the question of rural prisons, where the Central Committee on Transport decides on a recommendation from the Guardian Council. The government, in short, resorts to the most unfair solution, because on the one hand it is the easiest one and on the other hand mocks the ears of the conservative voter. This obsession is manifested in the belief of the data, because there is a survey by the Citizens' Counselor's questionnaires for 2015-2020, which says that 98% of the licensed detainees comply with its terms. But with the current situation in Greek prisons, it is not permitted that the issue of permission should be examined only from the point of view of the prisoner. We must also see it from the point of view of the prison itself. Here we have the standing position of the penitentiary officials who are strong defenders of the institution. Because they know that the institution of the licence is working beneficially in prison because it is dismantling tensions, especially when we have prisons that suffer from overpopulation. I shall refer to that. The same is true of rural prisons on a pro rata basis. Here the prospect of the prisoner going to a rural prison is a strong incentive to show good conduct in prison. We must not forget that especially the institution of the licence is the right of the prisoner. And since that is a right, the principle of equality is imperative. Of course, I'm talking about a right since it meets the formal and substantive conditions to get permission. The provision as it currently applies precisely the principle of equality. He says he is entitled to request a prisoner's permission when he has fulfilled one fifth of his sentence. Every prisoner regardless of sentence. Of course, another is one fifth for the prisoner who has been sentenced to prison for five years and another is for him for ten years. The principle of proportionality, however, applies. The new regulation violates this because it sets an arbitrary limit of ten years. There is, therefore, a theoretical prisoner who has been sentenced to nine and eleven months and is entitled under the arrangement you are proposing to apply for a licence after he has served one fifth of the sentence, i.e. two years. There is a prisoner who has just been sentenced in a few more months, say in ten years and a month and is entitled to a licence after he has served twice the sentence from the previous one, that is, four years. If this does not violate the principle of equality, then what violates it? And all of this, while there are alternative ways of creating the sentence, which you have kept in hypnosis for almost a year and a half that you have been in power. First of all, the foundation of socially beneficial work that was working. It didn't work perfectly, I know. But as mayor I was always happy to sign that the municipality can accept a prisoner offering social service, public service in the city. Is there a problem with the mayors? You should have Mr Theodorikos demanding that they implement the social-benefit instrument. The other institution is electronic surveillance. Now that you are going to absorb resources to extend what was started as a pilot project and only concerns, if I am not mistaken, five prisoners at a cost of EUR 300,000 annually. There are institutions that indirectly favour the reintegration of detainees. A very important institution is second-time schools in prisons, which you have completely neglected. Let me give you the example of Corfu prison, where lawyers pay, so that prisoners can have graphics. But, as we have said, we are choosing an easy solution to mock the ears of some voters, while everything is in favour of the opposite. Now we're going to the issue of coronary, pandemic, inside prisons. The Change Movement has asked you several times and questions and a timely question on the issue as early as March. Since the beginning of the second phase of the pandemic, the situation - at least - in two prisons is sad. Since the beginning of November in Diavata we have a hundred sixty cases. Yesterday we had the third dead, seventy-one year old with underlying heart disease, which counted only three months in prison. In Larissa, eighty-six cases, an outside guard dead. We learn that systematic tests in the country's first prison, in the Koydallus, once they start on Thursday. Actually, ten months after the pandemic started. The prisoners are now eleven thousand five hundred and over three hundred people, the maximum tonnage of prisons. In twenty-three of these prisons the ceiling is exceeded. A large number of them show a particularly high rate of overcare. Eleven prisons have almost double their potential. In some prisons today there are three-storey beds and three prisoners live in cells under eight square meters. Look at the Alikarnassus prison. In 2014, exactly for these phenomena our country was convicted and the biggest compensation to a prisoner ever indicted in a similar case by the European Court of Justice was indicted. Among other things, when we asked questions and a timely question, we raised the issue of the decongestion of prisons. It is not just us, with figures in June, that all the countries of the European Union, apart from us and eight others, had said it. These with figures from June. I imagine that other countries that implement the decongestion instrument will have been added. But there is also the World Health Organisation, which expressly says that there should be decongestion, giving priority to non-negligent measures, to low-risk prisoners and to care responsibilities. At the same time, reasonably, measures to prevent and protect the health of prisoners are being questioned. He serves a one-digit number of doctors in these prisons. In March there were seven doctors. Nor does the integration of the hospital of detainees into the U.S., and it does not seem that the process of integration of the psychiatrician into the National Health System has been activated. That is why we have tabled an amendment. An amendment providing, in accordance with the definitions of the World Health Organisation, for the dismissal of detainees by a detainee, always subject to revocation, without prejudice to the conditions laid down in Article 105 of the Criminal Code, provided that they are serving prison sentences or imprisonment, which are not seventy-fifths of five years and have served in any way whatsoever one-fifth. There are, of course, serious offences referred to in paragraph 2 of the amendment, due to their particular moral deception of a criminal organisation, terrorist acts, grabbing, trafficking in human beings, the kidnapping of minors, rape, seduction, pornography of minors, etc. We have excluded them, and in the case of paragraph 4, from the vulnerable groups we are talking about, those who have been convicted of malicious acts of violence are explicitly excluded. We must finally resolve the issue of infections in Greek prisons, not just now because of the coronary. We know about the problem with AIDS in Greek prisons, and that is why we are proposing the prevention of an infectious disease. There's a prison in Drama of six hundred seats ready to work. What do you prefer to send? Do you prefer to serve with another hundred and thirty people, while the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy already has fifty employees, so that, as you have said, the Greek penitentiary system can have a plan and strategy? Now he's gonna get them? He hasn't had it for so many years? Or do you prefer, as the circumstances require, to serve with staff in the prison in Drama, so that there will be decongested and, in fact, in the circumstances of a coronary? Do you know that the General Secretariat of Anti-Criminal Policy will reach a total of one hundred eighty, eighty-eight employees, who are currently in possession of the Ministry of Justice, if we add thirty, forty, seconded? There are some positive measures in the bill. There is Article 41 for protecting unaccompanied people, since you can actually apply it, there is the question of the return that you are strengthening, but nothing easier than anticipating an increase in staffing, the question is whether you will be doing it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is, however, the question of external guards pending. While it is foreseen that they can be seconded to this hypertrophic, in the hydro-headed General Secretariat of Anti-Criminal Policy, these people have left them without legislation for their evolution in hierarchy, without having specified specific qualifications and recruitment procedures, without having specifically identified their health care, in the field of staff, as well, while generally pending for penitentiary officials, on the basis of ADP notice 6K/2018. For these reasons, for the philosophy behind the legislation, for its wrong approach to the treatment of the penitentiary, which is deserved, unmistakable and highly conservative, we will vote against the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u49	There is now the floor for my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. We must admit that the government is consistent with what it has performed since the repression and authoritarian regime during the mobilisations in the Polytechnic Celebration Anniversary. It shows that little, very much, will be the anticipated response to anyone who dares to protest, claim, stand up against government policy. That while the government is allowed in conditions of pandemic to leave the public health system intact and not to take the necessary measures in a series of sensitive areas, including prisons, in which there is already a loss of life, to legislate a ten-hour job, wages of EUR 200, to make workers' lives flexible, at the same time it is considered forbidden and dangerous for workers to claim protection for their health, protection of their lives, to claim the guarantee of their working rights and to ensure their survival. Even if they do, taking all the necessary measures to protect their health, that is to say, what the government does not take, which does not take magnanimity - there, of course, does not apply not to repression, but not even to sampling, and not only does the government re-elect the path of authoritarianism, by issuing sermons of bans of meetings over three across the territory at every opportunity, but also finally touches on the limits of self-immigration - how else can it be justified that it is now forbidden as a dangerous public health even by walking alone? What logical response to the ban on two-sided delegations of political youth, student organisations and students elected to local administration, even individual residents of the region, who wanted to leave a flower in the memory of a wrongful student, is forbidden for reasons of public health? Was it true, less dangerous the five thousand conspiracy policemen, who you mobilized to ban traffic in a few dozen protesters or protect their health by stacking on cages and inappropriate spaces for those who arrested in the pile, from whom you didn't even exclude lawyers exercising their defense duty towards the detainees? You even tried to show, as an indication of the antisocial behaviour of the detainees, that they did not accept - something which can only be dealt with as a hindrance - undergo a COVID test, because it prevailed - you say - aggregation during their detention. Unless, of course, the Minister has other documentation on the incubation time of the virus after the successive innovative scientific positions he has expressed in recent years. So stop being exposed, but above all stop underestimating our intelligence, that these kinds of authoritarian bans are supposed to protect public health. Let the government show its sensitivity to all places that with its criminal omissions it has turned into coronary incubators. You have not shown the same importance in carrying out massive tests on police officers, Minister, who have left themselves exposed as their own associations denounce or take measures in prisons that we have already measured losses in human lives. There goes your sensitivity to public health. Others, therefore, are the aim of these kinds of bans: to terrorise and impose a muzzle on workers, people and young people while the problems and dead ends are exacerbated. To prevent the indignation that you know very well that sooner or later it will manifest itself against the barbarity that is being formed for workers on the occasion of the pandemic. After all, this is the role of state repression, which without exception all governments, even those who are now struggling with hymns of popular freedoms, have made use of it when they had to impose anti-popular policies to prevent popular mobilisation. So we are clearly telling you that whatever measures you take, you will not be able to impose cemetery silence on the working people's movement, on unions, on mass bodies, on all of them, namely, who have this very role, not to silence. In the same reactionary direction, the changes made by this bill to penal law are also moving. Not only do they solve the serious problems of prisoners in prisons, as do workers in them, but they are actually worsening them. We have already taken every opportunity to express our opposition to the government's penitentiary policy, which does not have the same as a comprehensive plan to prevent crime, penalisation and reintegration of the prisoner into society after he has been released. It is also characteristic that the government decides to transfer the powers of penitentiary policy from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, as has only been euphemistically renamed by the Ministry of Public Order. It incorporates in a symbolic way the government's repressive view of the treatment of detainees, which ultimately leads to the deprivation of their rights, but also the prospect of their genuine reintegration into society. A concept of reactive and dead-end, which ultimately recycles the problem. With the changes you are trying today, this repressive and punishing logic is being further strengthened. In other words, it is farther away from what the penitentiary policy should have. In prisons, not only are soul-savings, as they have been well designated, but now in the present conditions of the pandemic, they are also turned into health bombs, due to intense co-existence and the absence of basic measures to protect the health of detainees, and of course they are also working on them. How, of course, could this happen when only sixty - seven nurses and nine permanent doctors are currently working throughout the country today in the thirty - four detention stores? Is it possible and fundamentally satisfying the protection of the health of the detainees? And since, on many occasions, the Minister has spoken about changes within the framework of the practicable, do you really think it is possible to turn the transfer of detainees into external hospitals, of course accompanied by piles of police officers, especially in the current conditions of suffocation into the public health system, with hospitals operating as hospitals for a disease? Response to calls for anguish of both detainees and penitentiary officials may be given by hiring sufficient permanent qualified medical staff, which will be able to directly take care of detainees in need of help. As in the case of overpopulation, of course, dramatically subsidized to the necessary scientific and not only staff, not only cannot we be talking about ensuring the elementary creative employment of the detainees, but it is impossible to preserve even their decent living. When all this is kept in full, what is coming to solve the bill by tightening the conditions for exercising the right of the prisoner's permission? In fact, his remark, when, with the increase in time for the sentence to be created as a precondition, it will finally be enough to coincide with the time when the prisoner could ask for his conditional dismissal. Limiting the days of the licence can be justified for an institution, which, according to the figures provided by the Citizens' Prosecutor in 98%, is not violated by the prisoners, and undeniably is also beneficial to the results of the latter, both for themselves and for the proper functioning of the penitentiary system in general. It is typical of how they defended this institution and the representatives of the penitentiaries themselves. Similarly, there is no justification for tightening the conditions for the transfer of detainees to rural prisons, which, among other things, will multiply the suffocation and overpopulation conditions in closed detention stores. Furthermore, there is no justification for the general exception you provided for by the transfer to the rural prisons of those who have been sentenced to terrorist offences. But this debate which has also opened up to committees for the provision of other offences that should generally be excluded from the possibility of establishing the penalty in rural prisons is introducing an arbitrary separation of prisoners with inadmissible scientific and legal criteria. If we were to follow such a division, we would probably be able to make a bid for criminal acts. Truly, with that logic, why not exclude criminal Nazis from the golden dawn, who also have proven fugitive tendencies. Do you consider such an act to be a less risk? Such categorisation, except that it is in complete contrast with the basic principle of the penitentiary code, namely the prohibition on the discrimination of detainees, based on the type of crime they have committed, effectively absolves the very functioning of the penitentiary system. Because the rights, the benefits granted to the prisoner at the time of the creation of the sentence, cannot depend on anything but on the individual judgment of his conduct in prison, possibly risk elements that he maintains during this period, but under no circumstances on the basis of the offence in general, which has been judged at an earlier stage in terms of the imposition of the sentence and not on the basis of his creation. That is to say, the stage in which the state is supposed to ensure or at least take care of the prisoner's penitentiary in preparation for the social reintegration of the prisoner. Therefore, this effort should be constantly assessed and strengthened on the basis of this and only assigned any rights to the prisoner. When the rights of the prisoner are finally linked only to the nature of the offence he committed, this is also the greatest confession of failure of the penitentiary system. However, assumption of the failure of the penitentiary system or better of the completely wrong view taken by the government in this respect is the way it chooses to serve the General Secretariat of Crime Policy. What is the direction of anti-crime policy, when there is not even a social scientist, forensicist, psychiatrist, and when such specialties are absent from all detention stores? Of course, there is a dramatic downsizing and delay in serving new detention stores. It is actually confirmed that the anti-crime policy for you is exhausted in the way of order being respected, of course, not in the prevention, in education, in the proper preparation of social reintegration, but, in the most characteristic way, this concept of the government is reflected when even the function of the return - the legal person, in other words, who deals with the help of the prisoners after their release - is transferred to the competence of the Minister for Civil Protection. Is it possible, in terms of suppression and enforcement, to address this most serious social issue of the normal return of the released person to society now? In relation to the other articles in the first part of the bill, we have been placed in detail in the committees. I do not want to come back so that I do not abuse time. As far as the second part of the bill is concerned, the provisions that actually concern the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection will only be left to some of them, since most of them have already been mentioned in detail. He has had a lot of work on the question of extending school time at the Police School from five to three years in order to qualify as a Higher level on the basis of the European Union's educational standards. First of all, there is a debate about whether we can actually talk about higher school, when today higher university, higher school in Greece, is only four years of school. Of course, at the same time as the supposed upgrade of the Police School and the training provided by every government, you hire thousands of special guards and border guards who make them police from the back door without any police training. However, the main issue in police training remains. This is not only in the years of study, but in the direction it has. And the direction taken over time by all governments is that of repression. It is a political choice to turn police officers into scratches of the repressive mechanism, through the constant pressure they are under to eliminate the particular features of their personality, to become addicted through education in police schools to authoritarianism and doctrine "law and order", thus treating as a derogating social behaviour the protests, trade union and political action that is not matched by police perception of the state and society. That is why the manifestations of police violence and arbitrariness experienced by the people, particularly by workers, youth, refugees and immigrants cannot be treated as individual cases. Because these are the result of a generalised trend directed by governments themselves and aimed at imposing anti-grassroots policies through the whirlwind of state violence and repression. A role like this must not be played many times, nor do police officers want to play. That is why any education and police training should be subject to respect for popular rights and freedoms. In any case, despite our criticism of the role the government is trying to play in giving police forces, we of course consider it necessary to train them properly and safely in order to be able to deal with the common crime themselves, and of course we are all defending their fair working, wage and insurance rights, as we have done so far. And we'll keep doing it. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, with regard to the revival of the Social Welfare Fund in the Security Body, what should have been more important is that the former TEAPASA, which revives today's regulations, of course, with the exception of the subsidiary sector, was not excluded from the consequences of the anti-grassroots, insurance policies of all governments. It was a robust fund, which was constantly looted, be it in the losses of individual funds, which were gambled on the Stock Exchange or, of course, by the well-known PSI's robbery haircut, which was stolen from the pockets of the life-long insured. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] For this crime, of course, no one was found to answer, nor did any government make the damage, as it should have been. In addition, the staff of the Security Councils do not forget that both the funds and the reserves of their solid subsidiary funds were thrown into the EIF funnel, by the SYRIZA Government at that time, with supplementary pensions becoming tips and being taken with great delay. On these anti-language regulations, the current New Democracy government has fallen to privatise supplementary pensions. We therefore have every reason to be vigilant about every provision of law brought by the government to the vote in the House concerning the insurance funds. For the amendments, I shall be placed in my dentistry. In view of the above, we are voting against the bill, because most of it incorporates a false repressive concept of penitentiary policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. We continue, after the step has been settled sanitaryly, with the Special Buyer of the Greek Solution, Mr. Antonis Mylonakis. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was expecting to hear from my fellow Members and to hear proposals for such a serious bill that we are discussing today and after four adjoining meetings of the committee, at which opinions have been heard, not only by the parliamentary groups, but also by the bodies. It is regrettable, but I never thought of such a very important issue - I begin with the majority rapporteur, Mr Koutsouba - to listen only I must. You have to, you have to! It is not a question of what we should do, but of what we do, ladies and gentlemen. If you think that these changes that have been made to our country's penitentiary have solved any problems, we should discuss them. I believe, however, that they do not solve anything at all. In three parts the bill is divided. A bill stumbled, Minister, impasse, and, above all, dangerous. First part, arrangements for penitentiary legislation. When we say that we regulate penitentiary legislation, we have to mean it. A General Secretariat for Crime Policy has been created. You have placed the Secretary-General, Mrs Nicholas, and you thought that this General Secretariat solved the whole problem. First of all, what does anti-crime policy mean? Mr President, just so people can understand it - because, by leaving here, people have to understand what the Members say, what the parliamentarians say, which is why we are here - anti-crime policy is all the actions we need to adopt, legislate, so that crime can be curtailed. Crime is out of jail. Crime is in prison. So tell me what of all we have to do is have this bill. In the second part, it has provisions for the Social Welfare Fund for Workers in the Security Body and in the third part other provisions of the Ministry of Civil Protection. Be careful, the Greek Solution from the first moment has said that it does nothing. There are a number of provisions which, of course, are worth it, and we shall vote on them. But, in general, the bill is selfish, deadlocked and dangerous. Now let's go and see things one - one and just. General Secretariat for Crime Policy. Is this a General Secretariat, do you think, Minister, that you are responsible for anti-criminal policy? This is a sub-ministry, Mr Kamines said before. It's pretty much the same as the Justice Department. We're talking about over a hundred and eighty with two hundred. Will he do what the General Secretariat has to do with so many addresses? Can we set up a few "ours" children yet, is this our mission? Wrong one: Mrs Nicholas must be more counted on what she says and writes, Minister, and that is a matter of yours. He can't fight on Twitter and go out and say "my own" and "all of you. What's that, dude? What 'only' and 'all of us'? Mrs Nicholas, who on 19 March 2020 - I have everything here, these are all direct assignments, look out, we found money and we spend, we find the opportunity and we fly, we have found the opportunity and we take care of our 'our' children, our 'our' people, and I will submit them in the Minutes, we have also told the Committees - there is a totalitarian imprisonment of EUR 145,000 plus VAT, on 30 March 2020 there is a new contract with the same subject, EUR 118,500 plus VAT, on 23 April 2020, the third time in the same company. We are talking about a scandalous phenomenon, which you must stop. A sum of 145,000 euros plus VAT! But what is particularly wicked is that this activity, this company, which received the direct assignment, included it one day before the contract. That's not happening anywhere. On 30-10-2020 directly outsourcing masks, amounting to EUR 147 340, at a grocery store, we give this to them. We're on. Once again, on 3-11-2020, directly outsourcing antiseptics, EUR 144,319, to the same company - grocery store. On the 3-12-2020 award for gloves, 147.287 euros. But what you need to see, Mr Ministers, and what we and other colleagues have told you and the Committees, is that within the same Ministry, one is buying the gloves of EUR 7 per hundred, and the other is buying it, Mrs Nicholas. That's why? There were no other gloves with 7 euros or we got gold gloves with 17 euros and who's gonna bring these gloves? A box with a hundred masks of 17,5 euros, antiseptic cost 4,83 euros, Minister. Where did the antiseptic cost again be 5 euros? Here I have them, I'll give them to the Minutes. Now we're going to trouble to see what this bill is solving. Overpopulation, decongestion and prisoners' licenses. Please tell me, please, very much, from this bill before us, the overcrowding of what is there. We have them in front of us here. Second, tell me how it's corrected. So we have eleven thousand four hundred twenty-seven prisoners. Overall, the positions - and Mr Kamines said - are ten thousand thousand seventy-five, so we have about a thousand five hundred more. I now go to the Komotini Booking Centre, Mr Ministers, to hear it out here, because they think we are spending our time, we say 'yes, we must, we must, we must', we must', we are doing what we have to do, but we have not heard. Komotini Reservation Center: Fully completeness is 216%. Tripolis Reservation Center: 186% complete. Korydallos Booking Center: 124% complete. Thessaloniki Booking Center: 148% completeness. Where is the project that you had announced a year ago to Aspropyrgos? Have work started, or are we still only seeing it in a mattress? To understand, in July 2020 by the European Court of Human Rights, EUR 27 000 in favour of two prisoners. Why? Here's the thing. Even the rule of three square meters which each prisoner must have, i.e. not even three square meters, was destroyed in the Malagasy prisons. We are not talking about bad crimes, which we have a different view of and other proposals for them, we are not talking about life-threatening crimes or chronic incitements to rape minors, the murder of elderly people, post-mortem robbery, policing, drug dealers, we are not talking about them, we are talking about all of the prisoners. Not even three square meters, is there not a man entitled to sit three to four years in prison? How will it spend those three - four years? There's a man coming in and an animal comes out. Thirty-four detention shops, one guard - take note of the big problem - for ward with three hundred to five hundred prisoners. Explain that. Diabetes watches, 148% completeness, as we said, Mr. Koutsuba, 67 coronary cases and that makes sense. It would be unreasonable to tell us that there people have nothing there that they enjoy extreme health. Decongestion of prisons. Look at that. If you think prison decongestion is done by giving permission in general and vaguely, you're wrong. The licenses of the prisoners, the prisoners, the convicts - look out, are we not talking about those who are waiting for the decision, are we talking about convicted either of terrorism or of the heinous crimes we have said, cruel crimes - these people think no one should get permission? Because I have already heard colleagues who say that they should also be allowed to go. I don't understand. Has the other five or ten nomadics killed him and given him permission? High-security guards, ladies and gentlemen. High security guards were, at the outset, the Greek Solution's proposal, to work for those who have committed shameful crimes, nor licenses, but to treat as they faced their victims when they were killed, raped by children, watered our children and killed them, brought illegal immigrants home. As Mr Metarakis is now denounced the day before yesterday that Somalians, he says, are three thousand across the coast and are about to send them this way. The ones we're gonna catch, what are we gonna do to them? Are we gonna get them here to put them in jail for a year and give them permission and say thank you? Greek Solution - it has been done again, I will say it once again - is a high security prison on an island, type Alkatraz. That's what has to be done, a high-security prison. The story's over for them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We give them permission and leave and they don't come back and start chasing them from the Greek Police! Lack of permanent doctors. Can there be only seven doctors in the penitentiary? What for? Permanent doctors, permanent medical staff and nurses. They have their problems too. We cannot call the doctor outside when a prisoner gets sick and pay him with proof of service, 'take the hundreds'. What for? Permanent medical staff inside. Lack of infrastructure for small and medium-sized enterprises. If you read the MEDIA report and the requests made to the political leadership, but also to us Members, you will be moved. There are people who can't, they don't have infrastructures to stand. There are people who have multiple sclerosis in prison. Shouldn't we help them? No, we've given up on their fate! Then what are we bringing this bill? What's the deal with this bill? Nothing. No, it solves! Put thirty-five points in the General Secretariat of Crime Policy to do so by the Ministry and do the direct assignments. 'Ministry of Direct Awards', so to make it rest. Lack of medical care. There are people with cancer who want their oncology medications. There are people who have huge health problems. So they have to have their medication. Submission, staff selection. It didn't sound anything. Is it possible that we don't have any penitentiary officers? The Greek Solution proposal - we have said it too many times from here and in the committees - is to get penitentiary officials immediately. First, tracking is alpha and omega. He who will be chosen to be near the place where there is jail to live, because with the money he takes, if we take him from Athens to Fokida, he will not do his job because his mind will be elsewhere. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, two minutes. Secondly, take prison penitentiary officers, who, after completing their military obligations, come from Special Forces. We're telling you! There are children who can do their job very well. We can't put in the same fate and say S.H.I.E.L.D. etc. What's S.H.I.E.L.D.? So we're gonna take a kid twenty-eight to thirty years old, one and a half feet of glasses and put him next to a giant Georgian to handle him? That's not happening! Close to mind and knowledge. It's just stuff. We must also give the penitentiary officials the strength to do their job, because now most of them are afraid of prisoners, are blackmailed. That's why we're seeing the transgressors through prisons, from drugs to cell phones, knives and everything else. That's why they're doing the wrong thing, because they're afraid! We must radically change the system of staffing for penitentiary officials. We're not going to make anything, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much we want to try. We need to make radical changes, the structural system! Also, with regard to the rights of penitentiary officials, they must have the right and be able to say that he must be given permission, because the prisoner's permission must not be a right. It must be the reward of his efforts, Mr. Kutsuba, while he's in prison. Are you a good prisoner? Do you think so? Take your permission, too. No, it's saving, and we're going to get permission. We're not good. And there's the gangs inside, there's the crime inside. Healthy of prisons. Recently in the Nafplio Privileges - I told you, Minister - a door has been opened for years. Thousands of mice on the inside! Is that the hygiene of prisons? Can a man live in that descent? Is that cleanliness? We don't have any prisons. We can build another building in every prison, raise it, if we can't build a new prison because there's no need for it. It can't be done! Is that our political culture? Is that a culture? Put the other one in for two, three, four years? He didn't have the other guy to pay the VAT, he didn't even have to go to the courts, he went, he went to jail. We talked about social work. The municipalities, he says, don't give up. Why don't they give places, Mr. Theodorikos, the municipalities? What is it? In the hands of the municipalities don't give positions? It's an alternative form of detention. Low-risk prisoners coming out to do municipal work, cleanliness, we have so many things to do. We don't even want that? What's with the electronic bracelet? Only those who have money can put a bracelet. The rest of the worms, how do they put a bracelet? So, those who have money, pay and put them in. That's why they're so few. Finally, we're going to the rural prisons. You made a law, Minister, to get Koufontina out of the rural prisons, and you did well. The perpetrators of terrorism, people who have murdered their fellow humans, must not be treated like this. Hard treatment! Hard prisons! Prison is hard, not a society of angels. Did you kill, sir? You'll pay. But why don't you put in this paragraph and those who are doomed to long squats or life for other crimes healed? So they can go to rural prisons, Mr. Kutsuba? I didn't see it suggest it here. ‘It must be, must be, must be.’ What do we have to do, though? So, together with that, Minister, we have proposed six or seven things and you have not heard from us. I wonder! The whole world says it, that's the logic!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u53	Finish, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. President, can I tell you something? It's a bill where the whole House should be. It's not going to be the measures and the other measures! It's the most serious bill, our penitentiary system. Don't you know she's in trouble? They all say so. Structural change. Drop from the beginning and blow over from the beginning! Let's sit down and put them, it's just stuff. This thing can't be done all the time, making fun of the world. I'm going fast - fast in the second place. You changed the PESASA and you did it unpaid, the Police Welfare and Assistance Insurance Fund. Good. We said, are you gonna put his fortune in? There's got to be a fund fortune in it. The funds are lost. Secondly, to give the subsidiary and what they owe the world, to give all retrospectives. Nothing's given. There is also a slight increase in the number of people living in the Community. Whatever everyone wants, they give where they want! No worker or pensioner now understands what he's getting. Nothing. Everything they give him takes. What are you retiring? 'What they give me'. That's how it turns out. We have asked you on the nine-member board of directors - and it is fair - to also put a representative of the workers of the special guards - border guards. Don't alienate them. Do you know what you've done? You have put in all the other branches - and you have done well - a POSY, POSEE etc. - and you did very well - and you left out, you exempted the special guards. Thousands are also special guards, police officers. If you ask the world what he is - he's a special guard - he doesn't know, he'll tell you he's a cop. What's the other guy? Police officer. He doesn't know if it's the special guards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u55	But close it, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u56	I shall conclude, Mr President, a thousand apologies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u57	You're finishing up, but you've got time to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u58	Minister, there are some provisions such as those of the policemen and the others, which must go to the highest level, such as those who have lost family members and of course have to be hired exceptionally, even as you say 1%, 2%. I'd say 5%. There's no problem. The last thing I wanted to say to you is that to those who are demilitarised, you will give the next grade honorably, morally. Do that. You don't need the other application. He's a police officer, and to be a retired police director, he has to apply within three months. These are Halima's fairy tales! Do it. In conclusion, I will say that the Greek Solution made its proposals - serious proposals - spoke with institutions and workers and border guards and with all economic operators. What I was surprised about is that I did not hear any of our proposals adopted. Like the bill, it's a dangerous bill, it doesn't change anything in the penitentiary system, and the Greek Solution will vote against it. We will vote on some of the provisions in the articles because they are fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u59	Until the Step is ready, Mr. Koutsubas has asked to speak. I understand him. Wait a minute. Of course, I do not know what your wish lies about taking the floor for a minute. Mr Mylonakis did not exist. However, there has been constant mention of your name, as if you were the man who is "doing" the bill. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u60	The staff are the fact that the honourable Member with his position has misinterpreted my position and my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u61	This is a personal matter. Explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u62	I would therefore like to explain to my fellow Member, in good faith, that he can also have knowledge of the penitentiary problem, but it will allow me to tell him that, in another capacity for four - five years, I have an excellent knowledge of the penitentiary problem and, in my capacity as chairman of the judiciary which he drafted - and we voted unanimously - a Penitentiary Code, the most modern and democratic that was in our country in the last year of 2013. But let me tell you that I also know the problems of the system, because I've visited half the penitentiary stores. All you say do have these truths you say, but I have never referred to'should'. Today we are not having a debate as a penitentiary committee and we do not have a full-fledged vote - if you like - of the penitentiary committee. So your question is if I think it solves the problems. Of course, my position is that this bill of these imperfections that comes to correct, resolves these flaws of penal law. Clearly it cannot solve all the problems, but the problems it affects, it affects them as it should for the security of society and for the rights of the detainees. That is what we believe with this bill we can solve. But the House, its function, does not stop here today. Parliamentary democracy continues to work. That's why I said, and I made the suggestions from our side - don't rush! - because you said that I only said "you must." I say that we need to separate prisoners from the penalties and the offences they have committed. It is necessary - obviously, you have not heard or remembered - the establishment of three new shops, one women, one minor and one rural prisoner. That's what I said, but that's not in today's law debate. Today we are being called upon to judge whether these interventions are necessary to correct these imperfections resulting from the legislation. So these are in the right direction and we are doing it right and we are doing it right, and so I have told you that I have a proposal and a full knowledge of the penitentiary problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u63	I'd like to call the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mr. Fotini Bakada.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, does the draft law which we have today in our hands and which we are discussing as it should be, respecting the rights of the detainees? We state that it does not do so unequivocally. Let us now go and see why and haunt what we stand for. We are starting with the first article, by which the medical care of the detainees is at the disposal of the manager of each detention store. More specifically, we read that in any detention store there is not enough nursing and medical staff - not at all, because everything has problems - the needs are covered on a 24-hour basis by visits by external doctors and nurses called by the director and paid for his visit. At the same time, however, we have seen nowhere mentioning the intake of nurses and medical staff, despite the fact that in our country's thirty-four penitentiary stores, some sixty-seven nurses, nine permanent doctors and one pharmacist for a total of about ten and a half thousand prisoners are currently serving. This is why, moreover, a sample showing that our prisons are completely sanitary is the daily increase in coronary cases within prisons. And in this case, instead of talking about recruiting permanent staff, you are trying to provide with transient solutions to the enormous needs. Moving on to Article 3, you are stricting the conditions for granting authorisations to prisoners with the untrue argument that there have been increasing cases of violation of the conditions of the licence, violating both the rights of prisoners and those laid down in the Penitentiary Code. At the same time, we are seeing you tighten even the conditions for the transfer of sentences - prisoners to rural prisons and to the Central Warehouse of Material Guards again in the same article, so that the sentenced for terrorism is forbidden. Article 5: Transfer of Sanctions Council from the Ministry of Justice to Civil Protection. We are vertically opposed, because from the outset we have opposed the transfer of the penitentiary policy from its natural space, which is the Ministry of Justice, to yours. With Articles 6, 7 and 8 we monitor something extremely interesting, to create a Ministry of Crime Policy within the Ministry of Civil Protection with address recommendations and recruitment of employees. Because - let us be honest, Mr Minister, and between us and the people and our fellow citizens, who are listening to us - there are no structures that, as you said, are necessary to pursue the penitentiary policy. Weaving and building up the "king" of Mrs Nicholas, who enjoys full freedom and power as being the head of the Ministry and not you, Mr Chrysochoidis. I told you in committee too. If that is the aim of the Prime Minister, let her minister Mrs Nicholas, because she is now acting as Minister. Let us also take the formal title, be accountable to her, do not call on you as a leader to justify unjustified sums whenever a huge direct assignment comes, or whenever we have a violation of the rights of detainees. In the ninth article, there is provision for the development of the "REANOPOS" network, which is now in operation, in order to create structures in various cities, with the ultimate aim of creating a supportive framework for the social reintegration of the deportees. It could indeed be an initiative that would work beneficially and correctly. However, the fact that she too comes to your own supervision is that she finds her preliminarily doomed to fail. Article 14: Transfer of "Personal Intellectual Property" officials, which we consider to be permitted, will come to demise our country's already under-reported prisons. Articles 15 to 25 relate to ITD. I would like to point out that we need to ensure the representation of all the bodies and support the fund so that it can also support the insured and not have the future of EASA. Article 28: Possibility of transferring special duties officers from the PPE to the Citizen's Counsel. The work of the Counsellor is extremely important and we all recognise it, and that is why it should be supported. But I am trying here to understand the logic of transport. You are taking five legal posts from ELAS, transferring them to the Citizen's Counselor. Why don't we talk about new staff and gaps need to be created in structures to strengthen a truly important structure and higher authority, which should have the full support of all of us? Article 29: Arrangements for the submission of statement of assets. We believe it is a very positive arrangement that should certainly extend to other public and wider public sector bodies. Article 34: It concerns career arrangements. We believe that the promotion, once it is done, of the other bodies - the military, the police and the Navy - should be automatically given, without any Officer I or a pilot applying for examination. Article 35, entitled ‘Deposit of seized instruments’. We believe that we should take care and see how we can specifically cover at this time the increased needs of other bodies, such as our hospitals, and not just. Articles 39 and 40. Article 39 provides that recruitment, by way of derogation from any other provision, is to be made to the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, while Article 40 provides for the establishment of an Inspection and Control Unit to be established at the same General Secretariat which is directly subject to the Secretary-General, who will have the freedom and determine all relevant matters. These are two articles which appear to have a strengthening role in the work of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. However, it remains to be seen what kind of recruitment will be and what the powers of the unit provided for in Article 40 will be. Because the truth is that in this bill we may not have a picture of what will happen to our penitentiary system, prisons may remain intact, subordinated, without doctors and without staff, but at least the two general secretarys of your Ministry are strengthened in both power and authority. Article 41 entitled ‘Repeal of the protection of unaccompanied minors’. It's good, it's late and it should have been, but it's necessary to make sure we see where these kids are hosted, because the police department is not the right place. I'm going to close up with Article 36 and raise by one semester of school at the Police School. We also discussed this in committee on superiorisation, and very much ink was spilled by announcements of associations and articles on websites. But is this really a high school seniority, or is it just a cheese, let me have the expression, which the Ministry of Civilian Protection gives to Greek police officers, saying that they are satisfied with a permanent and timeless request, but without that promise and this step has a bearing on it? Why am I saying that? Because despite three years of study, it is growing over a six-year period - and indeed the three-year course is recognized as a university at European level - that is not the case in our country, which we all know very well. And it would be nice not to hide behind our finger, nor to say what they want to hear from everyone who listens to us. Mr Minister, I have asked you to the committee, and I ask you today, and I would like you to reply until the end of the sitting. How do you intend to change the status quo in order to identify the student? Will it be on the Legislative initiative of the Ministry of Education? Is it going to be some kind of special provision? How do you intend to implement this promise? There are too many students, which we know, who have studied abroad in three-year programs and cannot recognize their degree in Greece. And now you're letting the police believe that by increasing their school for a semester it will become, by miracle, a high school of police officers. There is also another issue. How will these children be able to do the practice you define to get their degree? Will they be rewarded? Will the practice be unpaid? How can they do it technically? Yes, as I told you in committee, police training should be reshaped in our country, academia should be created in the standards of university schools with the whole organizational structure of the HEI, enriched the curriculum, added to lifelong learning and education seminars, and students enter into it only with full-scale examinations. But all this must be a plan that we will discuss and be able to start properly and not look at fragmentary movements towards the end of trade unionists and not just. A step should be taken that has a real impact and impact and not just words of impression. I will repeat something else that has bothered you in committee, but that's all right. You should put an end to the status of special guards. Conserving it, in saying proud of it, you are doing nothing but mocking the police themselves and maintaining a form of police personnel of the Greek police of two speeds and categories. The first is those who graduate from the police and officers schools, and the other is the special guards and border guards who become police officers after seven, eight years. Three more must be passed to give, if they want, examinations and inquiries, taking the sergeant's rank or staying non-productive and staying for one life without competence, making purposes and patrols. Of course, we must not forget the incomplete education that is an important part. You get people to learn the work on the road while they are on duty with very short training. You told me in committee that they received frequent and regular training and education. If you can answer me, I'd like you to tell me every time this training takes place. We are also a few days after the anniversary of the murder of Alexander Gregoropoulos, and I cannot comment on the statements made by the Secretary-General of the Special Guards in an interview with an interview in the morning, where he said that it is perfectly normal to invade the police in the building, because it is a shared area. Also, with regard to the dropping of flash point within the building, which for him is common space, he said there was no injury or breaking glass. And of course, by commenting on the arrests of the two lawyers, Mr. Campayannis and Mr. Papadakis, he argued that they were well arrested. What else did we see on the day of memory of Alexander Gregopoulou's murder? We have seen images of arbitraryness, forwarders, arrests, chemical dropping, as I mentioned above, detention in terrible conditions and without providing basic security measures for hundreds of citizens, blocking even access to the point where Alexander lost his life and destroying flowers by a police officer, an incident being investigated by the SAD, but it remains to be seen whether this SAD will also have a finding. For many of us have been listening all this time, but we have not seen if they are done. Nevertheless, I will agree with you on something, Minister. You said the MATs were on the road and ruled SYRIZA. Indeed, he was on the way and they did not hesitate to beat civilians, throw tear gas and chemicals away. After all, the repression forces in the ten years of the memoranda helped all governments to implement their anti-grassroots and hard policies. But what you forget to say is that now the situation has really been derailed and that not only do nothing to prevent and improve it, but you are using the repression so hard, which are considered to be the only ones you can use to implement your policies at the Ministry of Civil Protection. It is certainly your political choice. In order to be able to apply the doctrine 'law and order', repression is necessary. So, you cover the few policemen, letting them do what they want, use whatever power they think gives them the uniform and equipment against the citizens, thus removing the overall image of the Greek police, associating those who actually do their duty conscientiously and protecting the citizens, while of course you leave the citizens unprotected from arbitrary work. Finally, since you are here today, Minister, I would also like to ask you some questions about MATs. These are questions which have also arisen from questions of parliamentary control that I have asked and not just. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need another minute. Really, why can't a police officer leave? Can you tell us how many requests for transfers have been rejected at this time, but in recent years too? Every time these people pass psychometric tests? Every five years, as is the case with the other cops? How many images of arbitraryness should we see before you do something? Stop arbitrary. It's not a way of ruling. Police are part of society. Stop turning them against her by making them view citizens as enemies. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of having a comprehensive plan for the operation of prisons with infrastructure upgrades, increasing staff and recruiting medical and nursing staff, we are seeing another fragmentary bill that will surely create more problems than you think will solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. At this point, the list of rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. Now, then, we're going to enter the list of colleagues who have been registered to speak. The first is Ms. Marietta Giannakou from New Democracy. Can you hear us, Mrs. Yannaku?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u66	I don't know if I'm sounding, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u67	You don't sound good. You need to fix the connection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u68	...(Not heard due to bad connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u69	Do you have a TV on? We're listening to a double sound. Turn off the TV if you have it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u70	...(Not heard due to bad connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Giannakou, you're not sounding well. Please, after a directive given here by the Informatics Directorate, put headphones and we will come back when you are settled in your reconnection. There is a noise here, and colleagues only listen to one of them. Put your headphones on, as the Technical Service informs me. We're interrupting with you and coming back. Mr. Spirtzis who's connected and listens to us has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate at the four meetings of the committee responsible was revealing both the political objectives and the objectives of the government in all areas included in the draft law. Before I refer to the draft law, I would like to mention some general conclusions. The first conclusion we can draw is the complete failure of the state of staff and the rules of good law. The draft law - we would ask the Bureau, if possible, to take some initiatives - according to the law of the state of staff, has a explanatory statement - allegedly a explanatory statement, because it is not well written - which is not self-evident, but is incorporated into the report on the consequences of regulation. It does not follow monitoring under Article, and that is why it infringes Article 74(1) of the Constitution. So it would be nice to send it to Mr. Gerapetritis, to see how the final state works in practice and the rules of good law that he has established. However, we understand that from the reports of the bodies that have sent out opinions and those who have participated in the committees' procedures, since you can see that in many articles there is no justification, there is no scientific documentation, no concrete studies, no measurable data. We will set out a few examples. If you see, for example, the memorandum sent by the Greek Union for Human Rights, the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Crime, you will all understand why. Because no reason could be given for too many articles and photographic provisions that are included, but there are also anti-scientific policies that the government wants to promote. The second conclusion, which we can draw, since the juncture has brought about a few days after the start of the debate at the first meeting of the committee, a day of memory of the murder of the fifteen-year-old Alexis Gregoropoulos by a police officer, is that violence with any alibi, whether by the Mitsotakis Government, or by an alibi, or by the coronary, is a policy that does not bring results and conditions of peace and democracy, but only achieves violence. When we see violence being perpetrated by extreme right-wing enclaves within the police, we see that phenomena, behaviors, standards coming out of the Greek state are far from any democratic viewpoint and version and that many such extreme groups are identified within the police with fascism. Minister, I don't think you're helping with the orders of cruel repression and fighting. All you do is build up indignation, hatred, and with the history of our country, you contribute to the removal of citizens from the police and democratic police officers. You've got them slapping the democratic police officers. We all saw the scene with the dissolution of flowers in the memory of Alexis Gregopoulou by a police officer of MATs. It's been made public. You said that you ordered the SAD, but you didn't tell us what you were doing about the rest of the facts, about the arrests of lawyers while practicing their work, about the dropping of a spot - shine in a building, about the arrest of young people all over Athens. I talked to some people and their relatives or others. Three of them were arrested in Hive. They had taken the kids out for a walk, they had ID, they had sent a message, they wore a mask, they kept all the health measures, but the class organ wasn't convinced, because they told them that they were out walking in jeans and not in shape! And he made an arrest! You understand the consequences and feelings created by citizens towards the police. At the same time, the Nazi Pope is still fleeing, as I think two other members of the Golden Dawn are. If you want, then, you can also tell us about them, if there are any responsibilities for its escape. He didn't come to explain that to us and the trade union representative of the New Democracy who told us he'd never leave. However, since you are being paternalistic towards the police, I imagine that you will accept one of the three amendments tabled. You'll accept COVID testing every 15 days to police and penitentiary officers. You told us about the active cases you know, but these cases came from the people who went on their own and tested. They haven't made fifty-five thousand police officers and three thousand penitentiary officers, which is a closed structure. Yesterday one of the prisoners died. You will agree to take place every 15 days, as we have proposed. You will accept that the prevention of all citizens with mental illness should be generalised to be carried by special nursing staff. You will accept the abolition of compulsory military service, so that we do not have a militant logic in the police. There are reports, Minister - you may not have seen them - showing the famous team reconstructed with Nazi symbols on the helmets and with ferrous fists not only in Athens, but also in Chania. I'm sure you've been informed. We'd like to know what you've done. Will you pick up this outburst of the far-right enclosures? Will you tolerate other trade unionists who want to honor the Makriyannis Spatial Guardians on December 6th and not the memory of the murdered 15-year-old Alexis? We expect information on your actions and what we have submitted to you. Mr President, please let me know after that I can send the papers. One is from "PRESS PROJECT" - has photographs - and the other is from "PANDOURA'S CARTON", also "The Nazi symbols on police helmets". Third conclusion...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Spirtzi, tell me what you want to send with one of your partners of the meeting. You'll send them here, and we'll put them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u75	But finish 'cause you're over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u76	I'm so sorry. I'm going to go over the line in two or three parts of the draft law...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u77	No, you can't now. I beg your pardon, but you have eaten eight minutes, exercising the functions of a parliamentary representative. So hang up in a minute. You're already in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u78	I'll be confined in a minute. You're right. I shall confine myself to one point, which, Minister, is related to the Technical Service. Because we all have a question. We asked you to make some changes, so that both verbal and photographic, and remove photographic devices, change them, do them non-photographic. I believe, however, that the technical service - and I have told you to the Commission - correct the wording at least. There's no surveillance. There is a management service, a supervising service, a head of authority, which you cannot open this in the private sector. It's unconstitutional. There are no executive arms as they exist in terrorist organisations. The Technical Service is a Technical Service. There's a law, and please change the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u79	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Spirtzi. We don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u80	Mr. President, I'm closing. Yesterday I saw the Minister's online meeting with the Minister of Education, and I was pleased to say that they would have a meeting on the superiorisation of police schools. Finally, it was to become the new university police. I think, Mr President, that the government should now choose another perspective with the problems of two and a half dead a day. It must choose a policy that will not bring all the opposition to it and to the whole society towards it and all the actors that have contributed to Parliament's work and are geometrically opposed to the provisions of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u81	Finish it, Mr. Spirtzi. You've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u83	Let's go back to Mrs. Giannakou. I think you sound good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am convinced that the Minister, by tabling this bill, is trying to help reshape our penitentiary system and deal with crime in the best possible way. Mr. President, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u85	Ms. Giannakou, there's something wrong with your computer. If someone next to you can help you. There's a double voice. If you have TV on, you'll definitely close it, not lower it, but close it. If your partner's there again, to intervene to lower your microphone and if these have been done, talk to us again. We don't want to hurt you. Can you ask now to see if we can hear you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u86	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u87	Now we're not listening to you at all. Try again. We shall proceed to the next speaker, the Deputy of the New Democracy, Mr Manoso Voloudakis. Can you hear us, Mr. Voloudakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u88	I can hear you, Mr. President. Thank you. Do I sound?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u89	Sounds good and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today comes with its main body to modernise and rationalise our country's penitentiary system. The experience of the modern world, the experience of the democracies of the Western world shows that the security of society is compatible with the protection of the rights of all citizens and prisoners. This balance between security and rights is missing from the penitentiary system in the years of the country's governance by the SYRIZA government, when the common sense was undermined by left-wing ideas, when under the pretext of decongestion the prisons actually opened. Four thousand releases brought the Paradise Law to the effect that we heard the Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, telling us in committee - within a few weeks, releases which, as they were not really justified, led to new crimes. We see the same spirit today prevailing in the criticism of SYRIZA made in the bill. I can hear SYRIZA colleagues speaking reproachfully about the double 'law and order', speaking of 'right-wing agenda'. I can also hear the rapporteur from the Officerate-General in this spirit actually suggesting greater relaxation in prisons, permits and so on. Here it seems how distant you are, in fact, from today's society, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You fight ghosts of the past, you fight with fantastic enemies. Democracy is well founded in our homeland. That's why a lot of people turn their backs on the rhetoric and the worries of the gangpules. Law and order are not a threat, it is a condition for democracy, ladies and gentlemen. I will say a few words in particular about a provision that includes the bill outside the penitentiary. I am referring to Article 48, which provides for administrative penalties for farmers whose animals systematically cause crop damage. I stress the'systemic' because, in these cases, the same offence is systematically committed, and only in them, the provision is aimed at. It aims at damages not caused by mistake, but because some systematically use their neighbors’ crops as feed for their own animals. Why do we need such a provision? Already the Criminal and Civil Code provide for serious penalties and serious compensation for this offence, for agricultural damage. But, obviously, in order to impose penalties and claim compensation, the case must be brought before the courts. Unfortunately, however, in some cases, due to the characteristics of small closed societies in which these offences are committed, the cases never reach the courts. If they arrive, there are no witnesses who are willing to testify. The result is that the offenders do not suffer consequences for their actions, are dismantled and constantly expanded. This is what makes it necessary for the police to impose fines on them if it finds this illegality, without the complaint having been given prior notice, and before any court ruling, i.e. the police, for example, imposes fines on the traffic offences. The device is structured so that the random incident - what can happen to everyone - does not carry heavy penalties. It is the repetition of the offence that increases the sentence, which is even confirmed in the DU. The first time the fine is 50 euros. The third time the offender commits the offence, he will pay a fine of 1000 euros, which will then double whenever the same offence is committed. Of course, finding the infringement is very simple. We talk about herds of productive animals in some crops, such as olive groves, vineyards, etc., and destroy them. The implementation of the provision is, in fact, very simple today, as the animals bear the specific costs of European subsidies, so it is easy to identify their owner and impose the fine on him. Minister, this detail, the identification through the earliest floor, should in any case be provided for in the joint ministerial decision that you will adopt in the course of the procedure for applying the fine. Of course, it is very easy to find the infringement itself, as it is sufficient to find the animals in the crop. Apparently, the owner doesn't put them there to destroy his crops. A prerequisite for this - and I would ask you, Minister, to give him the importance I know you will give me, because you have assured me personally that you will do so - the provision is to combine it with the respective operational planning of the police. Immediately adopt the anticipated joint ministerial decision, Minister, and reinforce the police in the region. Continuous patrols are required in the area where these specific offences are observed, which are systematically carried out. Continuous patrols are required there, Minister. The vast majority of farmers practice their profession with respect to local society, the principles and values of their country. They are the ones who keep our mountain villages alive and they need our respect too. To speak of my own region, the problem is only presented in certain specific villages, Kissamos and Keramia. With the provision that we are going to vote on today, the victims of farm damage are protected, but the thousands of conscientious farmers who are currently being discredited by the practices of a few dozen systemic offenders are also protected. The first time I spoke to the Minister about this problem has shown that he fully understands it and I am pleased to see his legislative initiative today. I have submitted to him in writing my proposal which I have previously presented as an amendment to this Chamber since last summer, as was published in the local media in Crete. Article 38 of this bill is based on my proposal. Minister, with this article you have laid the foundations for addressing a problem affecting hundreds of people, disrupting social peace and limiting the development prospects of mountainous and semi-urban regions. The message is clear today. There is a state and it will protect the rights of citizens, of every citizen, even the most remote corner of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. We'll try again to connect to Mrs. Giannakou. Before making two announcements to this House, I would like to say to Mrs Giannakou - if she hears us - that they are linked, as the system shows, to two of her partners. They'll have to disconnect because it sounds double and triple sound. I sum up again and say: TV is closed, not low. The two partners should get out of the connection and only have Mrs Giannakou's connection left. I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Furthermore, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Education and Religious Affairs, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Food Policy, Tourism, State, Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister have today tabled a draft law: ‘National System of Vocational Education, Training and Lifelong Learning, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the control of proportionality prior to the introduction of a new legislative regime for professionals (OJ L 173, ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Hellenic German Youth Foundation and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mrs Giannakou, since this has been done, I give you the floor again. Talk, see if we can hear you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u92	Can you hear me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u93	We're listening. Start your placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I regret the Minister and colleagues for the suffering... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection). I'm convinced that the Minister... (Doesn't sound because of a bad connection) is trying to contribute to the...(Doesn't sound due to a poor connection) of the penitentiary system and to the treatment of crime. My conviction was further strengthened by the fact that the Minister... (Doesn't sound because of a bad connection) after his final intervention at the last meeting of the committee with the encouragement and encouragement... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) to put him precisely and with specific proposals...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) our own labels, particularly... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) of the drug-trafficked ones. Mr. President, I... (It does not sound because of a poor connection) it does not solve all the problems of the penitentiary system. Most of the infrastructure needs...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) to ensure the dignity of prisoners who have been sentenced...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) of their freedom...(It doesn't sound due to a bad connection). On this matter...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) I have a particular sensitivity. I've been working on the drugs case for decades. ...(It doesn't sound like a bad connection) to be denied permissions and possibilities to move to rural prisons all those who have been accused and convicted of drug offences. But to...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection), which will separate the convicted charges based on... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection). As defined in the law...(doesn't sound because of a bad connection) In particular, Article 23 on...(It does not sound because of a bad connection). ...at least ten people or life imprisonment...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...five thousand euros up to six hundred thousand are punished... (It doesn't sound due to a bad connection). In particular, in point (c)...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection). The granting of such licences should therefore be decided by the Central Committee which...(It does not sound due to a poor connection). Because in the past...(It doesn't sound like a bad connection) they've been convicted of huge quantities of drugs, and there's the possibility of committing crimes and during... (It doesn't sound due to a bad connection) when these people are out of prison. I think since...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection.) ...for people convicted of terrorist acts...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection.) I believe that the wording of this law will satisfy...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) and it will clarify that we are talking about people who either...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection). My points in committee for both the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy, i.e. staffing with special scientific staff concerned...(It doesn't sound due to a bad connection). ...(It doesn't sound because of poor connection) with high scientific level and doctoral studies, just as higher schools and universities...(It doesn't sound because of bad connection). The way it is with the transfer of many people of all kinds and all kinds of qualifications in this school cannot be... (It doesn't sound due to a bad connection). I hope that what the Minister will bring, as we have promised, covers these issues in order to serve a higher school. Mr President, this is not a bill... (it doesn't sound because of a bad connection). It will take a long time to become huge... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection). I hope that the Ministry's leadership, which I believe accepts and offers...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)... that these conditions need to exist to act as a state of civil protection, will also promote them through legislation and through...(It doesn't sound due to a bad connection). Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too. Mrs. Giannakou, let's tell you that your connection was not good at all. Your partners next time should do something, because all the means we see here were used and improved there was not. Next time, you need to improve your connection. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, has the floor now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on what has been heard during the rapporteurs' suggestions and also the colleagues who have spoken through teleconferencing. We are discussing today an issue which is - I would say - one of the fundamental issues of democracy, which is our penitentiary system, an issue on which the Greek Parliament has now spent a lot of time, a lot of substance in the discussions, in the committees, in order to draw up codes of penitentiary. There have been mistakes, but very much has been done over the past few decades in order to improve the administration system of detention stores and at the same time improve the penitentiary system. There is a reality, which I do not think I need to repeat here, in the debate in plenary, a reality which, in our opinion, led to a series of very important negative consequences for the operation of detention stores. What we are trying today with the bill is two things: the first is to be able to create, organise administrative structures for the management and functioning of the penitentiary system and the second, which we are trying to do, is to significantly improve the penitentiary system, so that prisons operate safely, with respect for the personality, dignity and rights of detainees, while at the same time improving the security of prisons, prisoners, officials living and working daily in detention stores. These two things are being attempted by this bill, so that the conditions of detention really improve, security strengthen and democracy itself can be further strengthened. I repeat that I do not want to sit down and deal with today's reality. I would like to say very descriptively two, three basic speeches we are trying to make. One issue concerns licences. We want to make a more fair system for licensing. Licences should be granted to those inmates who have good behaviour in detention stores and, of course, to those who comply with the rules on authorisation. We want to put an end to that regime which did not have objective criteria for licensing. The benefits of the law, in our opinion and the government's view, must be enjoyed by those who make good use of permits. We have had too many licence violations in recent years, even today, with the existing regime and this has to end. The second issue that is trying to regulate is the question of transfers to rural prisons. You know that rural prisons have better living conditions. They live in a semi-free state, on large agricultural lands and enjoy a different reality, a different life, as well as privileges for those there. These privileges, in our view, must be enjoyed by prisoners of remorse, good behaviour and, of course, social reintegration. It is not possible in rural prisons to serve prisoners who have very heavy sentences. Here I am standing in the words of Mrs Giannakou, who referred to the issue of drug dealers who are moving large quantities, who have great convictions and in the debate we will endeavour with you to find all the necessary arrangements with a view to safeguarding them. As far as patients of psychiatric illness are concerned, I would like to tell you that, unfortunately, there were many, but too many, defects, anomalies, mistakes, which the psychiatric store in Korydallos has led to work not as a nursing institution, but as something else. I do not want to talk about this. Under the provisions of the provisions, detainees who are ill during detention, as well as those who have serious mental health problems, are now admitted to the hospital or are confined to a special department. Inmates whose hospitalisation is not possible in detention hospitals or in the special treatment shops of Korydallos are referred to a public hospital in the area in which the storage store is located. The internal control mechanism in prisons is also being expanded. You have occasionally read in the press how many checks and results these internal controls give when they are carried out by prison organs, but also by the Greek Police, in order that there is no illegal kind, material in prison, because it has proved that, unfortunately, these illegal materials often cause for further illegal acts, murders, escapades, etc. The mechanism of the "RANOPOS" organization is further strengthened and there are six more observers in various cities in Greece, where there are detention shops, so that we can make a decisive contribution to the reintegration of the detainees. Finally, new addresses are being created, which have been so criticised by many colleagues here, in relation to the structures to be acquired by the General Secretariat of Crime Policy, in order to command, manage and operate detention shops. Only in this way will we be able to have a mechanism for controlling, supervising, managing, operating and administering detention centres in particular, so that we can ensure all the objectives we have mentioned. The bill also includes a number of other arrangements concerning Greek police personnel, their funds, the training of staff that we have been expanding for a further six months, that is, for a total of three years, the Police School. This means further strengthening the education of police officers, and very soon a bill will come to the House that will regulate, upgrade and modernise the question of police training and their further education. I think it will be a bill, which will open a new era in the Greek Police, along with the effort to modernise the structures of the Hellenic Police Headquarters as a whole and the House itself. Once again, some of the speakers - I have listened with caution to Mr Spirtzi earlier - have referred to the well-known issues of police violence and to this whole account, which is constantly being attempted by some to repeat. I understand that these colleagues, these parties, are talking to an audience that describes themselves as 'agonists', has a strong voice of complaint, since it cannot be heard more widely. And so far, no problem. You make choices, you take the consequences. Let's get out of dialogue with the audience. This is a House and more institutional representatives are speaking here. You are constantly referring to police violence, which has been on the rise in the last eighteen months. Numbers do not confirm any outburst - on the contrary - nor the number of tear gass - I have given them the public access, if you want we can repeat them - neither the complaints to the Citizens' Counselor, nor the number of wounded, nor the number of newspapers or television reports. But I accept the argument that numbers do not always reflect reality. Where does the violence come from? More than three hundred fifty incubations were made in the first day. Was it violent? Was the use of irreversible violence denounced? Were there any injuries? Because violence, normal violence without adjectives, has consequences on the victim's body. Were there any such complaints? No, no, no, no, no. There's a confusion here. You call the lawful blockade of a legal act. Because, no matter how unfair the law is, it's law. The prohibition in this respect remains law. Are you asking the police not to apply the law? Answer me really, so we can get in touch. Is that what you're asking? Why did you not resort to the Council of State so that the ban would be lifted if this were considered excessive? A little legal or a little illegal is not there. I'll explain why. If exceptions were made on 17 November - and this was a criticism on my face, as a competent minister - they were made because they were political parties and I personally took responsibility in consultation with the government. In the parties we have confidence, although on 17 November this was not confirmed by everyone, I must say. If I apologise for the women arrested in the Constitution, it was because it was again about an isolated event from women who left already. Unfortunately, this could not be done the other day. This anniversary is black, it's about the murder of a young child. It's black for the police too. The main volume mobilised in this day's events does not come from the parties in the House, as you know, but from groups of uncontrolled anti-democracy, which neither want nor will be consulted. What else would you do to government? Would you risk conflicts in Athens and other cities, in the middle of a pandemic? I don't think so, and I don't think so. Besides, almost no sinner in here. And I say 'nearly' because there are forces that are unforgettable. You have shown it when you banned events in foreign leaders' visits, where there was no mosquito circulating in Athens. Today’s activists would protest even then and without a coronary. And you forbid it. Do you consider the pandemic pretext to curb constitutional rights? If so, say it. We are, Parliamentary weapons, there is a lot to do with such a heavy charge and you must use them. So I see no point in everything you say. I see your willingness to cultivate and present a picture of repression, authoritarianism, injustice, but this is a more general issue of how you handle your political choices. This isn't about what we're talking about here. So there's no evidence of police violence coming from anywhere. Nowhere. Is there a general arbitrary police force? It may exist at a general level, and here we are to discuss it and deal with it. But I have one question: does police violence exist, as long as it exists, will it leave on its own whether or not we deceive it? I mean, if violence is a permanent concern for the political leadership of the police - which is - and if we all agree on it - which I think is also the case - then why do we not discuss policies, measures to reduce and limit it? I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, this is a Parliament. It's not the complaint of the corner, nor a flower shop, of course. After all, the violent groups I have mentioned are so small that only if many and very loud, if they denounce, may perhaps be heard. It's their survival option. But why are you limiting your word to the reproduction of complaints - which we do not know if they apply - and at the same time to designations? Is this how you contribute to solving this problem, which is characterised by you as a major problem for democracy? I'll say it more thoroughly, and I want answers. And I ask for answers, I am entitled as government answers. What policies have you implemented to limit police arbitrary? Because these are all recorded. Four hundred incidents have been made by the Citizens' Counselor for the last two years, over the government of the previous government. Have you changed something to the police structure? Have you changed the operational doctrine to a mild policing? Did you work with the municipalities about the community policing? Have you created new groups for softer meeting management? Did you support the training and continued retraining of police and operational units, did you help police officers with psychological support, with a test to frame and support those where necessary, for all those involved in operations? Have you changed the institutional framework in Disciplinary Law to investigate arbitrary complaints, so that internal regulation and internal control do not lead to impunity? Did you give an independent authority, the Citizens' Counsel, the powers and resources it requested to carry out inquiries in cases of arbitrariness? Did you put cameras in the operational units? I ask you, why all of us did this within eighteen months, and we're planning a lot more. If we did, it means we didn't find them ready, nor made up of previous rule. They have a name for the actions and policies I have mentioned. Prevention to reduce repression and violence. Stubborn education. Support for police officers consistently and empatheticly. Checking impeccable, external and internal. Transparency. Showing the police work and accountability. That's how violence is reduced. That's how the police win. That's how people are protected. That's how the Republic is protected. If you disagree with all that, say it. If you agree, we're here to see what improvements are there. For everything I'm here, and Mr. Economou, too. We are here for synergies and cooperation, for dialogue and debate. So far all this has happened to your wet silence. But I repeat it and I call you: let us improve. After all, we are all working for the citizens and democracy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has asked for the floor - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Ragus. The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, has then asked for the floor. The speech has been made by the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heta. Now I see the speech also being made by the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mrs Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, let me tell you something. We have a Conference of Presidents now, and I have to go there. So I'm asking for the floor, but I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u99	You ask him for the floor and you deserve him. First of all, we will start with Mr Ragosi and continue with Mr Voutsi. I've pre-scribed the show so far. But when you are available, Mr Pafile, after your obligation in the Conference of Presidents, then you will be given the floor, as you are entitled, in the order of the parliamentary power of the parties. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not start where Mr Chrysochidis ended, because I too will close with the big file that - good for him - he has the courage - he thinks he can open up and scratch open wounds. I shall start by speaking of the bill, which is based - and I should like to repeat - the majority of the arguments which were heard by our rapporteur, Mrs Eleftheriadou and all the speakers who from our party have spoken both in committee and today, the Civil Protection Officer, Mr Spirtzi, but also in the whole of the parties and Members of Parliament. Because, if I'm not mistaken, this bill has received such a hammer that nobody really knows where it starts and where it ends. So I'll talk about the big picture. The great picture is that today we are discussing a bill that is supposed to be called a explanatory statement - and that is very important - as the general reform of our country's penitentiary system. This bill has been introduced to the Greek Parliament to vote in favour of the report that it is a general reform of the penitentiary system in our country. As has been shown with very great documentation, this reform essentially involves two pillars of our country's penitentiary system: the institution of permits and the institution of rural prisons. Institutions of decades which are essentially, as has also been established, are abolished. This was also concluded by a number of representatives of bodies invited and placed on the bill at the relevant committee meeting. In what direction are these changes? These changes are on the opposite side literally of the progressive penitentiary code acquired by our country in 1999. They're intersectional. It's in the logic of Trump and Orban. These changes are currently brought by Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Chrysochoidis and the Government of New Democracy. Because these changes substantially affect the two very basic foundations of the progressive penitentiary system, which had acquired permanent characteristics in the Greek judiciary. What is progressive, one would ask. What is progressive in the penitentiary system, which prevails internationally? It is what has been formulated and ratified by law since 1997 in our country in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. There, in Article 10, paragraph 3 states that the penitentiary system provides for the treatment of detainees, the essential objective of which is to improve and reintegration them into society. This is a progressive penitentiary system. That is exactly where these very important institutional pillars of the penitentiary, which are licenses and rural prisons, are based. So, in fact, it is not a reform of the penitentiary system that the government is proposing, but it is a deformation of the progressive penitentiary system that our country had. It is in this sense, which has been said on several occasions, of vengeance, of maliciousness, of the refusal, in essence, to reinstate these people, that it is in the broadest sense yet another part of this doctrine of terror and of combating human rights. A citizen would say "all right, you who are progressively interested in and pointed it out. What do I care?" A prisoner and a prisoner could say so. However, there is something much worse, because it actually makes this bill - we want to highlight this - extremely dangerous in its essence, for society, for public security, for security in detention stores, for prisoners, for workers in detention stores. Because, apart from avenge and extreme right this bill, which ultimately brings about is not the abolition of the license and the rural prison, but the abolition of these values and this substance and the content behind the institution of the licence or of the rural prisons. It kills not empty and rural prisons, but it kills hope, expectation, incentives for reintegration, which must be live in detention stores, because it is the only way that these people can lead them to a path of social reintegration. You're practically depriving them of hope. They no longer have anything to hope for. So you lead them to despair. So you create detention stores, you create in Greece in 2020 prisons of desperate detainees. That phrase keep it. You are creating prisons with up to a thousand five hundred supernumerals, not prisons that are currently operating under the specifications on the basis of which they were created. In this sense, it is a bill which is tragic for society, for detention shops, for prisoners, for workers in them, for their families, for tragic developments that will be caused precisely because you are now creating a wide layer of desperate people. Note one more truth: if for the prisoners the institution of leave or rural prison is hope, it is the expectation, it is the incentive, it is their ability to expect that they will soon come in contact with their family and so it makes sense to become better, to obey, to obey, to go on the road to social reintegration, to date these institutions have had another very crucial role for society, for outside prisons, because they were mechanisms of decompression, because they were mechanisms for decompressing a burdened situation, which the Greek state could not, and cannot really go on today, and it seems that it will not be possible tomorrow, in the foreseeable future, to manage it in the way laid down by science. In short, with this bill you are sowing winds and, unfortunately, the storms will be reaping by Greek society. And in order to make it more understandable how dangerous, unbearable, unbearablely light it is the bill you are introducing, how unscientific in the end, we also have to ask a question about the tabbie: Who has drafted this bill? Who took the scientific responsibility for suggesting it to the Greek Parliament, by extension to the Greek society and tomorrow morning for it to be applied in detention stores? Who? In 1999, when our country's Penitentiary Code was passed, a scientific, top-level committee of seventeen important law was set up. I won't say that you signed it, too, Mr. Chrysochide, that's your business to manage your past. I'll say something more important than that. When the Legislative Committee was set up in 1999, it was set up, as always, and the Statement of Justification for it and when one reads it to come to the debate on this bill, you know, ladies and gentlemen, what it sees? It sees the downside of the Mitsotakis - Chrysochide government in 2020. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as much as these words bother you, here is how these words are documented. The 1999 Report states that the Penitentiary Code of our country, which was then passed, was the product of a long process, which began in 1990 by the Vice-President of the then government of Constantine Mitsotakis and Minister of Justice of the Athanasios Canelopoulos, who did what he did in 1990, Mr Chrysochoidis, who should be ashamed of what you have brought here today? And see why you should be ashamed: He made a legal committee, a scientific committee on the Penitentiary Code, which was made by Stergios Alexiadis, Professor of Clinics and President of the University of Thessaloniki - in 1990! -, by Giannis Panousis, Professor of Clinics at the University of Thrace, by Nestor Kourakis, Deputy Professor of Clinics, then at the University of Athens. And this committee in 1996 remained in office and continued working the Penitentiary Code. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall also take my speech, Mr President. In 1999, seventeen - not one or two, but seventeen - scientists from the fringe of legal science in our country processed the Penitentiary Code that was passed. Do you know in these seventeen who participated, ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand why it is a disgrace to you what you are bringing today? He participated in 1999 in the PASOK government, while he started at the Government of New Democracy, Mr Stergios Alexiades, Professor of Criminology, Mr. Ioannis Panousis, in 1999, Mr. Nestor Kourakis, in 1999, who had been designated since 1990 and were working for the country's Penitentiary Code, Mr. Paralympicopoulos and others, who had been added in the meantime. Today who recommends this bill? Our shame, Mrs. Nicholas. You have lowered the level of the Greek Parliament, the Greek legislature, for this crucial issue for society, which is the Penitentiary of the Code, at the level of a Mrs Nicholas. Who's Mrs. Nicholas? She has recommended the bill. Who's Mrs. Nicholas? It is a lady - and I do not say it, to God, degradingly - who, even today, in her CV at the Ministry of Citizens' Protection is lying about her studies, which, when questions have been asked by our MPs, did not dare to present the degrees that she even claims today to be undergraduate studies. Mrs. Nikolaos is not the responsibility of the Greek Parliament, but it is the responsibility of the public prosecutor, and you, Mr. Chrysochoidis, take note of what I say to you - or you will take it to the prosecutor, after the complaints made by our party MPs, such as Mr. Paulakis, and site, and websites, and research work by journalists, who have nothing to do with our site, such as “Inside Story”, or then when the prosecutor intervenes for all these auditors - I say neither scandal nor illegal, nor anything, the prosecutor will judge - or so you will go to the prosecutor these direct assignments that Mrs. Nicholaou is being reported to make in or after you will be in trouble in the evening. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is where the Mitsotakis Government has arrived to bring about a general reform of the country's Penal Code, which has been involved in the fringe of legal science, from parties, from governments for decades, based on what Mrs Nikolaos is proposing. But, of course, no one should be surprised. Why should it be surprised? Amazing now by a government belonging to a party to change its color? You don't own blue anymore. As a New Democracy, you must change your color. You have to choose the yellow anymore. You have flammed the political life of the place in yellowism and yellow! You have become yellower than Trump's hair, which guides you in all these policies. You have reached the level of the political life of the country at the level where you have downloaded it all these days, with Mr. Tsipras's house, the rental that when he gave you all the information, in a way that your own President and current Prime Minister Mr. Mitsotakis has never thought of doing. Where's the evidence we asked about Mr. Mitsotakis? Where's the evidence of his own properties, since he wants there to push the political life of the place? Why doesn't he give it to the public for both his rent and his repairs and his real estate? Where are the figures from Mr Mitsotakis on the loans he has and many government ministers? We have told you that it is a question of democracy, in the final analysis, that there should be a government in Greece today with Prime Minister and Ministers in debt and debt! I will say something on this point, ladies and gentlemen. That wasn't the New Democracy. It was not the New Democracy, at least in the last few decades. Neither at Costas Karamanlis was such a shame, now going out to have the Party shot for a rent of a country house, but not for Samaras. With Samaras, I remember traits, we had many political and ideological conflicts. But such humiliation, such yellowism had not been known by the country of New Democracy, Kostas Karamanlis or Antonis Samaras! I will finish, because there is this large area, which is also the bill, but it was also by extension of Mr Chrysochoidis' speech on the Greek police. We'll start with a general report, Mr. Chrysochide. First of all, I would like to give you an answer to a question that I understood is very much concerned with: What you have done or what you should have done with the police over the past few years has been done and so on. Mr Chrysochide, you have the easiest way to get answers to these questions. You are going to ask your Secretary-General, the one you chose as your Secretary-General at the Ministry, who was the Chief of the Greek Police in the years of the previous government that you are now accusing and denounced. Ask Mr Tsouvala about all your concerns, Mr Chryssohoid. You have them next to your office, the answers. For the question who speaks with whom, Mr Chrysochide, we are speaking, yes, about all these complaints we are making about arbitrary and unacceptable exile, in which you have led the right-wing enclaves into the Greek Police. Do you know who we're talking to, Mr. Chrysochide? Amnesty International. You know, Mr. Chrysochoid, Amnesty International what she is doing now, over your days? "New campaign to collect signatures to the relevant ministers for police violence and impunity in Greece", Mr Chrysochide says Amnesty International with which, yes, we are talking. "We have witnessed an escalating increase in police violence and impunity in Greece," Chrysochoidis said Amnesty International. "International Amnesty has collected a multitude of video footage and testimony of victims who have suffered such practices on the part of the Greek Police and have documented serious human rights violations." And keep going. Amnesty International says that, Mr. Chrysochoid. Why does he say that and where does he refer? In a series of phenomena, of cases that are not really new. I have not taken this step to tell you that these cases of unlawful police violence and arbitrary behaviour have now been born as Minister of State or now that Mr Mitsotakis is Prime Minister. Oh, no. There were also in the past and they will also be there in the future. In that we are too clean. What's the difference, Mr. Chrysochide? Do you know where the difference is? The difference is in the way in which the Government, the Ministry responsible, manages these phenomena. You, when the first case came up, unacceptable case of unlawful, unconstitutional violence, do you know what you were doing? Do you remember yourself? Are you going to apologize once? It was Mr. Indar's case. Stir the 'green light' and the other extreme right policemen to do what Mr. Indarres suffered at the time, because you came out and lied about not exercising violence, and there were the evidence that they entered his home in violation of family asylum! And you wrote a letter to your advisor at the time and told him that there was no police violence and the man was taken in the photographs black! And once you didn't apologize! Like also, once you didn't get on the surface who you hid behind this terrible incident in Michalakopoulou, day after day, beaten by the praetorians of the Great Maximos, members of the Great Maximos, a man suspicious, who just went to work. So the problem, Mr Chrysochide, is with you who cover up, justify and legalize this violence. Let me tell you something, because you're also talking about the training of police officers, that you brought a bill to improve it and more and that you're interested. Mr. Theodorikos talks about SAEP as well. It says that you will also bring a bill on the ASP and the reinforcement of the ASP and within this bill, now, on the eve of arrival of the ASP bill, there are still provisions that precipitate the ASP, undermining it, effectively favouring it. They make committees with one member only, all their other people, to make the decisions they want and to put their own children on. But you, Mr Chrysochoid, are also proud of special guards. And in any case, Mr Chrysochide, since we are here together now, it is time to end this matter, at least as far as the facts are concerned, and then let everyone keep their opinions. First of all, of these five hundred special guards you hired, outside the Greeks and beyond, how many of them had participated in the Greek examinations along with all the other children of the Greek people, did they fail to be recruited through pan-Hellenic tests and you hired them as special guards?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u101	Mr Ragossi, you have exceeded a lot of protology, a dentistry. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u102	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. Secondly, you declare proud. Are you proud of Corkonea, Mr. Chrysochide, the special guard who killed Gregoropoulos? Are you proud of those who, in February 2020 in Ghazi, were beaten by nightclub bushes, lost their weapons and chased by their colleagues the next morning? Are you proud of the people who unprovokedly went and beat people, young children, in Sepolis, for the one who went full-trained and a policeman's uniform in ASEAN and almost hematized the university? Are you proud of the special guard you hired and arrested by his colleagues to commit illegality and also involved in blackmail circuits? Are you proud of him who shot himself, in the absence of training, with his service gun or with the other one in Perma who, unfortunately, accidentally killed his cop brother, and he was also a special guard, who you hired and untrained to give him a gun? I shall therefore conclude with a word and remember, if you will, Mr Chrysochide. The worst of all you've ever done to the Greek Police is that you've shaped, after decades, the conditions, the Greek police officer and the Greek police officer, who are basically children workers - except those disgusting people who commit these misery, like him the other day, I don't want to qualify, with bouquet, and many other things they do - to become haters of the Greek society again! You have shaped the conditions, after the 1960s and 50s, for Greek and Greek police children to be ashamed to say their fathers and mothers are policemen! That's where you take the Greek police and then the Greek society! Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u103	We continue, as I had announced, with the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, what you said before is true?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u105	You guys later. You'll have to give each other an understanding. I announced who they said. Now I see Mr. Bougas has asked for the floor. If he wants to give up his position, he can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u106	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u107	However, I have announced who has said, because I have already said that if Mr Pafilis comes back, he will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u108	He's not coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u109	The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half ago, Mr Mitsotakis himself - and this is why, at least today, I am not going to talk to you personally, so that there are no conflicts, I will speak on the government as a whole - in the government's programming statements - and there has been a lot of discussion on this - and it has, in his opinion, been the big change - which has been denounced by all the parties in this House and in the public debate, that the penitentiary policy of the Ministry of Justice should go away and go to the Ministry of Civil Protection, which is unacceptable for many reasons which have already been analysed and which has led you today to make a ministry within the Ministry, which is what the so-called 'competitive policy'. I want to be very direct: in pandemic conditions, the Greek Government has decided to operate and inspire the law of need. It invests in fear and now we see it with this bill which is being discussed and progressing to curb rights. We're talking about a deprivation pandemic, repression, authoritarianism. We have seen the latest events at both the Polytechnic University and simply posted a banner of three and five people to feminist organisations and other banners and on the day of the anniversary of the Gregopoulou murder. And now you're dealing with the P.D.P.D., where our P.D.'s been closed since last March. One year they do not teach our children within the HEIs, except by tele-education, but the government is working on the policing of the HEIs and a new body that will do there. It is a completely conscious policy. And this policy - I would like to warn you from this step forward and keep it, I am talking about the government - is consciously accumulating on your part - is a conflicting policy with society - an rage fuel for anti-individual radicalism, which we will find in front of us and in the midst of a pandemic, but immediately thereafter, when conditions become much more normal. You need to think about it if you do not do it consciously, as I believe it is done consciously on your part. You are using the pandemic as an opportunity, as in the economic sector, to take the concrete measures you take on the basis of neoliberal perception, to reduce constitutional rights, the right to assembly in particular and not only, in order to reduce rights with the penitentiary bill that you bring on rights, which they characterize - Mr Kamines said beforehand, and many other rapporteurs here - the history and the entire path of these rights and which are reflected in the Penitentiary Code. Do you know when the right to licences exists? Since 1989. And they kept it and I think all the governments have improved it since then. Do you know when the institution of rural prisons has been in place? Since 1911, nine years ago, and since then again, in the sense of aid for social reintegration, this institution has gone on. And you come and you are curtailing - until they are abolished, I would say - for too many groups of prisoners these rights. As also - obviously, you do not care - you do not take any steps to make the possibility of socially beneficial work progress, no measures to strengthen the studies carried out. Do you know how many kids have entered the EIO through the Special Store in the Paulon? Do you know how there had been classes to train and get high school their papers in prison, and all of this was suspended until they've stopped? In the famous anti-crime policy - much has been heard of Mrs Nicholas, who is obviously exposed and exposed, I will not now deal with this - you are shaping a ministry, where psychologists, sociologists, doctors, infectiousists, retreat and re-activation and reinforcement of the OKANA are missing. All this is missing, that is to say, which all the previous governments - less or less - have cured, strengthened, so that what is actually done for a democratic society is an inalienable rule, that the prisoners are equal, independently of penalty and of offence, which only in the courtroom is presumed and sentenced. From there on, there is no discreet treatment based on what they have done, in order to have a further serious tightening up and deprivation of rights. It was a little earlier than this step - I told you that I do not want the placement to be of a personal character - that there were excesses and that there was an circumvention of the permit regime. The Citizens' Counsel is coming and presents the report to you - and it repeats and gives you all the information - that by 98% on this crucial issue - which is an insurance policy, not only for future social reintegration, but also for the possibility for prisoners to have a human relationship and not to be at risk every day from escapes and the rest in prison - there is no serious - and, in any case, with fewer percentages than other European countries - to circumvent the status of licences. Ideally absolutely on both issues - licenses and rural prisons - intervene and intervene repressively. It is a very bad concept of politics, which is not just a reduction in the law of need - take note of it! - in relation to constitutional limits and predictions, it is neither the 'law and order', which is confronted with security and freedoms. It's the doctrine of zero tolerance. The Prime Minister himself has mentioned a climate that leads to this highly undemocratic assessment of how Greek society should behave. I mean, who are you talking to, to talk to? Mr. Julian. Do you mind Mr. Juliani's luck? I do not wish you the fate and route of Mr. Giuliani, the mayor of New York who first made this conception of zero tolerance to public debate and public practices known as counter-criminals. I do not wish you any luck, from what you have seen in recent months about what this man is doing and how he has been devalued in American society. So that's what this is about. We are talking about a 'principal deprivation of rights', and there are more general issues of democracy. We talked last week about the media. Through the lists of funds you give, you have found an opportunity to manipulate a sector that is a breath for the citizens, for a society that has been self-limited and has fewer controls so that it can have the information and information that needs to be provided about the pandemic that has led the world to close down in its home, to lose jobs, has led to companies not operating, to public space not functioning. Watch out. The squeeze of public space, which is pragmatic by the exogenous coronary agent and successive lockdowns within the pandemic, has been systematically used for a year now to bring bills and to intervene more permanently for both men and women in the aftermath of deprivation of rights. It's a heavy responsibility. It is a heavy responsibility for the government as a whole and for Prime Minister Mitsotakis. As you were exaggerated, something you hadn't predicted, and when she brought the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy there, taking it from the Ministry of Justice. This applies to all decades and all over the world. It has brought you this responsibility, namely the police, the repressive treatment of prisons and not the pedagogical effort and the social reintegration of detainees. Now you realize what they had in mind. Of course, you are obliged to introduce these principles. You said before that there is no problem with police behaviour in these critical months, in November and December. Can you say that, at the moment when, recently, there has been a lack of rights to lawyers, political organisations, trade unions and institutions which kept all the measures of the pandemic, so as to do the least, to leave a flower where Alexander Gregopoulou was brutally murdered? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am sure you know that from the Polytechnic University and then, over the last one and a half months, it is forbidden - they say that there are orders to the police bodies, which I believe, because I also lived on the street - to Greek MPs, during these bans that you are conceived, walking on the street and going where they think they are? You should be aware that the Constitution does not restrict the police force or the Minister for Civil Protection to check whether the Member is going to work exactly if he goes to Parliament. Me personally on the day of the polytechnic course, I was left with the car in Kifissia. So to pass through, and to come to the House, it was possible to reach you too, with the GAAP Centre, as to whether Mr. Voutsis has the right to walk and go in front of where you had ruled out for the mergers. The same happened with Mrs Agathopoulos, as with other Members present. And Mrs. Sakorafa and Mr. Raguss have said so. You forbid them, you forbid us to move on. You have told your organs to ban a Member from moving forward with the display of identity. Mr. Chrysochoid, you were also a socialist. You remember Gregory Lambrakis, at times that do not relate to the present, during the times of the post-election regime, before the dictatorship, in illegal, during the police, a march to Marathon – the classic road that Gregory Lambrakis himself had chosen - to demonstrate his identity and did the forty-two kilometers. That's what happened to that police regime, the post-mortem. He was a congressman! None of you have the right to forbid a Member to go wherever he wants! Do you understand that? Is he allowed to do a malicious act? No, of course not. These are provided for by the Constitution. Even arrested can a Member be arrested, when he commits a felony act or when he is out of a framework, that is, an offence, the Criminal Code. However, forbidding traffic, even Members of Parliament, is a extreme one and has been in the measures you are implementing. I shall conclude, Mr President. Have you considered the European Parliament's resolution, which, once the second wave of pandemic has started and precisely because in several governments the idea of limiting rights - because societies are incarcerated at this stage - warned governments directly, after very serious debate and by a large majority, of not using the pandemic's periods of time to go ahead with the restriction of rights, where, precisely because of pandemic, there is a restraint and specific restriction measures? Where have you written this, along with the Penitentiary Code and the right of assembly that has the Constitution? I am very sorry, because we have to make these points. You know that in the penitentiaries there are hundreds of cases and your government has taken no special measures, contrary to what all the political forces have proposed since the first wave of pandemic, which was even softer. We stressed that you should take care of the places of concentration, not only of vulnerable groups, because the same applies to the Armed Forces, but also to the penitentiary systems elsewhere. You will start testing now, when they are already counting dead, too many cases, and when there are cases within the penitentiary staff, as there are, of course, cases and victim to what we know - I hope there will be no more - in the police forces, which have also played a role for the legitimate maintenance measures during the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the bell is ringing for all of us. I use this expression and you know where I'm talking about. There is a question of democracy in the country and we may have months in front of us for a third wave of pandemic, but also for other things that can happen in a fearful and uncertaintyful society, filled with questionable Greek society. It is inconceivable that such bills, such as this and others, should come and that such measures should be taken beyond the limits of constitutional welfare, so that rights and freedoms can be curtailed. We here will resist our speech, our rhetoric, our speech and our proposals. However, an entire society has the right to protest, resist and oppose in any way it thinks, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and on the basis of all the measures that exist to protect from the pandemic, the bills passed and the measures taken by the government. This right cannot be denied by the government. In the same years, in the same months, you saw what mobilisations were made in Poland in relation to the misery there, as they tried to impose measures on women's abortions. You have seen what demonstrations have taken place in America in too many cities in relation to rights or in England or France now that rights are being affected and that there are gatherings. In France where these huge demonstrations took place against the well-known McCrone law, it was not possible for the French Government to ban these events. He didn't think! How did you realize that? How do you go about it? Mostly, how do you consider it reasonable, natural and legally? [[At this point, the 2nd Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In fact, this is a big question, but it will not remain unanswered in the history of democratic struggles in and out of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Chrysochidis asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Raguss gets zero in the report, because he was out of subject and a hundred, as usual, in empathy, in characterizations and charges. I shall say two calm words, also listening to the former President of the House, Mr Voutsi, who has attempted with a very heroic reason to show us that the Constitution and the fundamental provisions of the Republic are being violated by the government. There is a basic confusion. Here, today, with the bill, we are not editing and we are not voting for a penitentiary code. We're not reforming the Penitentiary Code. We improve the management of detention stores and we do administrative care, precisely for their management. For the rest now, I have nothing to say. I should like to end by referring to the general policy. However, there have been some inaccuracies and I want to correct them. First - it was said that there are overnumbers in prisons. So, listen, in the prisons we are talking about today, we have eleven thousand four hundred and thirty-five prisoners. In September, as soon as the current government took over, there were - on SYRIZA - ten thousand five hundred. At the same time, during this period, three wings have been opened, one in Chania and two in Nigrita. So where are the supernumerals? Why were they less SYRIZA? Why do we have such an opposition? Secondly, because you said that there is a horror situation in prisons, I told the committee yesterday that on SYRIZA there were eight homicides, hundreds of escapes, hundreds of prisoners abuses and conflicts between prisoners - I think you remember them, they are very recently - and in general the prisons in the country were not actually run. The Korydalou Prison was first closed a few months ago, when the General Secretariat of Anti-Criminal Policy and the Ministry decided to make Korydalos finally prison. As far as the special guards are concerned, you really have to go now and see how the special guards and the police are constantly being retrained. In fact, there is a very serious job in terms of psychometrics, with new psychological support protocols that have been introduced into Greek Police in cooperation with the Armed Forces and the new ways of training, so that the police will gradually become more effective and less violent and, in general, a democratic police, as we all want and effective in fighting crime. All the rest of it seems to have something to do primarily with ignorance and, secondly, with purpose. Special guards have been hired for twenty years. Nowadays some of them are grade police officers after eight years and some of them are in you here, next to you, and they serve you and your security. So stop this case! Stop this because you are really insulting some fifteen thousand police workers, who today offer very important work both at home and in society. Every day, these kids are in the streets and accidents are minimal. Every day it's in the neighborhoods and people enjoy it. So let's get this over with. I shall now turn to the more comprehensive political issue raised by Mr Ragus and then by the President. I do not think there is much to say about the issue of violence and the so-called 'police state'. Even with Lambrakis, we were making reports. Very clearly, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are not interested in policies and actions for police and violence. You are identified with an outdated activism that does not have new content and remake ghosts. Every other day we have a 'autonomism', a'military state', a 'right-wing policy' and a'suppression' in general. Every week, "the Constitution is bored", "the fundamental rights are being trampled." I heard something about Amnesty International. I have great respect both for Amnesty International and for all the non-governmental organisations that really serve human rights. However, we need to see a little on your day how human rights have worked. I do not want to go any further, honestly, because I do not want in here to discuss things which, in my opinion, are much more serious than what we are talking about here sometimes. Every day, then, there are descriptions on my face, such as Bonaparte, Sheriff, Bats, etc. It's your political mind, your words and your responsibility. The Exarches they cleaned up, is there a police state? They cleaned up of molotovs, of jaws, of sprayed drugs, of dealers. If this is extreme suppression, then really go find Mr. Babiniotis and chat with him, to find you the right terminology. Simply go ask the residents in Exarch Square and the surrounding streets. Not all of them opened up and calmed down by threats, fear, the stealing, the drugs, the ruthlessness. In other words, people are now sleeping and moving quietly in a peaceful neighborhood. Finally, decide who you are, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Are you with the painful reality that wears 50 Mavroyalou's pennies on police officers, as you did with the retired amendment a moment ago, or with the huge fantasy of authoritarianism that fuels hatred and intransigence? Bilingual net fishermen can't be. Two watermelons in the same armpits don't fit. You have already noted this: Deposition and withdrawal, despair and deadlock. I repeat that recycling slogans is not an ecological practice. It is the desperation of anyone who is afraid of change, the bitterness of anyone who is experiencing the dead ends of his thought and does not dare, because you are denounced, without daring and reminiscing, but politics, unfortunately, you are not exercising. Eventually, you just can't stand it. Your stereotypes cannot be tolerated in a serious democratic police, as we are trying to do the Greek police. You don't want her. You need it across the street and you make it daily in the footage of your fantasies. You cannot stand up to a whole Europe being strict in the framework of policing and the government, which you call the 'right' government of the police state, democratise and liberate the police. And instead of thinking and adjusting, you borrow extreme activism and transfer it to Parliament and politics. Wrong way, wrong reason, wrong time, wrong all, gentlemen of SYRIZA! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u114	No, Mr. Ragosi. Here it says that you've exhausted both dentology and tritology. It wasn't personal. It was an answer, details were given of the criticisms. Please, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u115	Please, Mr. President, for a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u116	Here, tell a minute what the staff are made up of. I write the colleague who presided over what you have spoken for twenty-four minutes. You've exaggerated your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u117	That is why I told you, Mr President, that I asked for the floor on staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u118	What's the staff to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u119	The staff consisted of the distortion that Mr Chryssohoidis has done a little while ago as I said, but I will only stand by what I said, because it concerns me as staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u120	Distortion of your statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u121	Please, listen to it. It'll take a minute. It won't take any longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u122	That's all you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u123	We're delaying the colleague who...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u124	Listen, Mr. Ragossi, please. We'll keep the time. We have also decided in the Conference of Presidents that time will be respected with a tolerance. Of course, to a Minister, if he deviates a little, or to parliamentary representatives, or to the President of the Parliament or to the former President of the Parliament, there is a different tolerance, we are not talking about it. But we should be in time. Tell what the staff are made up of. What's the distortion? We'll never finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u125	Will you let me go? You said three times the question. Wait a minute for the answer. That this is a general reform of the country's penitentiary system, Mr Chrysochide, written in the explanatory memorandum to the bill you have brought to Parliament. That's the first. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Second, did you say he was in jail? Did you hear what the President of the Panhellenic Federation of Foreign Guards said? I did not want to repeat it, because there is a question of the security of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u126	That's a speech now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u127	Please, Mr President! There were days when there wasn't a guard in the Korydallus Prison. We don't. The President of the Panhellenic Federation said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u128	You're saying now. That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u129	One last thing, Mr Chrysochoidis: our concept - and this, unfortunately, is our great difference with you, I mean with the government and you who serve it - is the observance of the Constitution. Your child, the flagship bill for the abolition of meetings...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u130	That's not a distortion. We're done, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u131	The bill, Mr. Chrysochoid, for the meetings was proclaimed a constitution by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, the bill that does not allow prosecutors to attend the marches and demonstrations. That's the truth, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, may I have the floor to say a word?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u133	Here, you have the reason to answer that. I didn't see any staff here, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u134	I am not surprised by the continuing attempt to distort that this bill for which you have fought not to pass here because you argued that the right to a meeting, in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution, is abolished, lives and reigns, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u135	Not even one of them applies it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u136	He lives and reigns every day. 93% of meetings are in the context of the law you considered unconstitutional and you said that it abolishes the right to a meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u137	Shall we make a deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u138	Once again, your life is being denied and our policy is being vindicated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u139	The Attorney of the Ice Bay...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u140	Has he interrupted you, Mr. Ragossi, anyone? Did he interrupt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u141	We're not talking now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u142	Please! Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, thank you. I'll try to get away from all this and keep the substance. Mr. Chrysochide, today you took it on you, you said apologies for 17 November, you said apologies for feminists, you said apologies for the Court of Appeal. Because you are in the constellation of your apology, your Ministry and your Government, we have not heard you say any apology, Minister, for the ITHs that Greece does not have and the Greek dies. We didn't hear you say an apology for the Greeks you've poored them. I'm sorry, Mr. Chrysochide, you're just admitting your failure. The apology actually means that we have failed. Mr. Chrysochoid, you failed. Let me tell you about apologies now, Mr Chrysochide. If you're Prime Minister, Minister, and you go to the mountain without a mask, you're sorry. But if you're a citizen, it has a fine of 300 euros. If you have the National Health System unprepared and you are Prime Minister - and now ex - you say "I'm sorry, wrong". It's easy to say sorry. If you're a citizen, you die. If you open the border in the wrong way and use the wrong algorithm for dispersal of the virus, you say as Prime Minister "I'm sorry, wrong". We've heard that too. But if you're a citizen, it means economic catastrophe. This is a warning difference that you don't understand with your apology. The apology means 'we have failed'. Minister, you failed. We have a mutation, we are in favor of policemen, and we will fight for people who give their lives on the streets every day for a cheap cut. They deserve a lot more. But, today, you have to make it clear in this Chamber: is there a command from time to time to become head hunters? I'm sorry, Mr. Chrysochoid, will you ask for the seventeen-year-old, unemployed father who was thrown by a police officer three fines continuously, 900 euros? Will you apologise for the 300 euros to the grandparents in Corfu? Excuse the hunter who went to Serres on 7.10 and accepted a fine of 300 euros, will you ask? For the arrests of minors in Nafpatto and Karditsa, will you apologize or just apologise for 17 November, who are sensitive, to the Court of Appeal where the chaos occurred and to the feminists, which you were right to do? But there are also "fresh fish". This is a very serious matter. A priest, Mr Chrysochide - I don't know if you know this - is your Ministry, if not, to see your subordinates what they do - they invited him to Thessaloniki five times to tell him if he has more than four people in a temple, while the holy process was under way in the church. There are reports in Ptolemaida that police officers on Sunday asked for the identity of believers outside the church, where they went to light a candle. Answer us: Have you given a mandate to control believers outside the congregations? We want you to answer this today if the Minister of Civil Protection has ordered police officers to seek IDs from Greek citizens outside the church. We did not see you being as sensitive, Mr Chryssohoidis, you and your Ministry outside of any mosque. We didn't see you check on illegal immigrants gathering money every Thursday on Fisher 68. You know exactly what I'm saying. The fishermen didn't get away with it. The fisherman EUR 300 fine. What can man do? What are we talking about here again? What is the political system doing, Mr Chrysochide? Mr Chrysochide! I'm sorry to say that. Art and spectacle, to the pleasure of the party audience. So stop, gentlemen, from both sides, New Democracy and SYRIZA, the "bending" now. The Greeks are hungry, the Greeks are dying and you are involved in holidays and villas, with Parnitha, motorcycles and bicycles. We want truths, not ashes in the eyes of the world. I accept that a former Prime Minister may give a rent of EUR 500 for a nice villa and accept a Prime Minister's carelessness to go to Parnitha. But tell me how serious the two major parties are, when you make this political confrontation within Parliament, while the Greeks are dead, they have closed their stores and are facing these huge problems. Unfortunately - I will use an expression that the President of the Greek Solution is using very often and is one of his favorites - you are very small in small and large. This is: Big in the small and small in the big and important. What are you waiting for? Do you want to work with SYRIZA to combat violence and the mess? Mr Chrysochide, you have a problem as a New Democracy: you are a stereophobic. Don't listen to them. Go ahead and clean up society. This is what Greeks and Greeks, the overwhelming majority of Greeks, are asking to stop the ball, stop the inequality and stop the balls. It's over! Clean Greece up! There's nothing else. Don't be afraid they're grumbling. Let them grumble. It's okay. Who's making a fuss, Mr. Chrysochoid? Do you know who they're whining about? Those who still have some lightheads from the Prespes in Pisoderi that tied to the Greeks, the ones who ruled four and a half years with the knives of MAT from outside. It's never happened before. They're whining now and picking up the finger. Those who beat old people and people who lost their homes from the appeals on Wednesdays, who ran this country for four and a half years with the MATs. So they're swinging your finger today? Go ahead. Don't be afraid of them. If you can't, let us do it. The Greek has many problems. He has his poverty, he has his misery, he has his unemployment, he has his child gone abroad, he has the demon of the virus. There won't be a mess. I'm so sorry. Don't be stereophobic. Don't be afraid of them. It's over and out. Let's go to the bill now. You said you'd bring in another bill in a while for police training and another bill for one another. Bring a bill that solves problems and not just legislate to legislate. It's incomprehensible at the time the prisons are on the limit of the collapse. What's this bill doing? It's to be really crazy. You are weakening, Minister, neural areas. You're sending uniforms to the offices. How is that possible? Instead of strengthening first line staff, you set up new administrative posts and new units. The law is doomed to fail and offers absolutely nothing, and that's where we're staying. What can I tell you about VIP cells now? Three thousand nine hundred forty-two investigations were carried out within a five-month period of Greek Police. He's got 'bangs'. Do you know what he got out of here? So the most serious problem, according to these investigations in the penitentiary institutions, is drugs. They are the groups and subgroups that form prisoners and live in luxury. We don't know? Where do we live? We live in another country? Heroin, cannabis, drugs, psychiatric pills, five hundred sixty-two cell phones, eighteen tattoo machines, a thousand four chargers, headphones, batteries, hands free, router, usb, bluetooth. Luxurious TVs, refrigerators, refrigerators were found in Nigrita. Only air didn't make them. From all this mess you know, what's going to solve this bill? If any of this is solved, we should change it and vote 'yes'. To put our minds in excess of and to vote 'Yes'. You will vote "Yes", Greek Solution. Will this bill solve something? All of these have been written international media. But it's not just VIP. How do you respond to the overpopulation of prisons? They were overnumbered as well as SYRIZA. It's still with you. Do not go into the process to answer SYRIZA that "and with you it was like that". What are you doing? Now how do you rule? Incomplete hygiene conditions. How do you actually answer? Prisons are overrun by illegal immigrants. According to your information, in response to the Ministry of Citizen Protection in Kyriakos Velopoulos, in Volos, 58.3% of the detainees are foreign. You don't say that to the world. In Volos, in the hundreds of twenty-six prisoners, 0.8% are Greeks. Do you hear them? 33% are Pakistanis, 16% are Syrians, 11% Afghans, 10% Algerians. In the Koydalus of the thousand five hundred prisoners, 37% are Greeks. Everyone else is foreign. In Trikala, there are six hundred ninety prisoners. 37.5% are Greek. All the others are Albanians, Pakistani, Syrians and we go by saying. What can we say now? What's your bill solved by all this? Say it. Every investigation reveals arsenals inside the prisons. In fifteen cells in the Cordal, sixteen bats were found, eight improvised knives, four improvised shovels. How's that going through prison? For God's sake. How's that coming in? So will this bill solve everything I tell you here? I'm talking to you with facts. It's yours, the Greek Police, the Ministry of Civil Protection. Will the bill answer these problems? This NGO lust is unbelievable. There is no single bill of New Democracy that does not refer to a non-governmental organisation. So why should a NGOs, Minister, take over the rehabilitation, financial support and social reintegration of detainees and prisoners? I didn't understand that. Again the same as supposed unaccompanied minors. Whoever we don't know how old he is, we're making them underage. They are unaccompanied minors and you anticipate suitable accommodation structures. You're picking them up again. You're masturbating them again. Where is the practical understanding of the European Union, then? To take these unaccompanied minors. No one else fits in Greece. That's it. Is it possible for Greece, the Greek Police, to grant weapons, ammunition and other equipment to FRONTEX personnel? We don't have to cry handkerchief. Police buy their equipment from their pocket: bulletproof, clothing and even guns many times. Don't you know that? And while we have such shortcomings, did we put FRONTEX as a partner? For God's sake. In fact, what is happening, Mr Chrysochide. We're really indignant. What we're saying is that we're the only ones who get it logically? So why don't we go to legislation now and solve these problems? Let's untie them. We know what the problem is. Let's go work it out. Let's get 30 more bills. Surely there are no bills, Minister? You're an old parliamentarian. If you look at such a pluralism that exists in Greece, there is nowhere on the planet. Is the law our problem? Will the law give the solution? Another bill? Is there a job? Mr. Chrysochoid, I'm a reporter at the profession. I had your cop syndicate in an interview on the radio. It was the time of the big excitement before the New Democracy took over. I asked him how we can get rid of it. I'm tired of hearing, forty years, how violence on the field is solved and how the mess is solved. Do you know what he said to me, Minister? "If the highest authority, if the Ministry tells us "clean the laundry", we want forty-eight hours to clean them up. We know who they are, where they live, what smoke they smoke and what they do exactly." Why don't we move on to this? If you know, it's covert. If you don't know, you need to know quickly, because you won't do your job right. So, should we believe the police unionist's statement? She spoke for her last name. I shall close, Mr President, with two references. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as you represent the government, you had this ministry, but you pushed it over you because you understood what a centrifuge it is and it would suck you inside. He would destroy you. You know we've had a 100% increase in illegal immigrants in a week? Seventy-seven came week 23 to 29 November. One hundred and fifty-four came from November 30 to December 6. How is that possible? The cherry on the cake is that the NGOs are also denouncing us for violent behavior. To apologise to the NGOs. The NGOs did not appear outside a hospital, Mr President, to offer a dish of food to the Greeks who are stacked and have no service because of the coronary. Where there is a marmita and where there is a "goat" the NGOs go. Just there. I'm closing up with one last, very short report on the coronary, because a lot has been heard. We're not against the vaccine. We are in favour of freedom and democracy. We have doubts about the vaccine. We're listening to doctors and scientists. We hear the President of France himself, Emmanuel McCrone, expressing doubts. And McCron is "spooked" and stupid, as some New Democracy parrots say, my journalists are so independent? Is the President of the Greek doctors of the United Kingdom Mr. Sun Sonidos "sprayed" and the President of the Greek doctors of the United Kingdom? He said: "I won't make the vaccine. I do not have enough information." So we're saying it's everyone's right to what he's gonna do. Looking and investigating. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u144	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Ioannis Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with an issue relating to the Rules of Procedure. We have witnessed a circumvention of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. He asked for and took the floor by Mr Ragus on the pretext that he would speak on staff while, in fact, circumventing the relevant provision, he again attacked the Minister, supplementing his arguments. I mention this because such interventions take time from colleagues and give the impression that everyone in their own way can circumvent the relevant provisions. Another issue the Parliamentary spokesman referred to concerns an issue of topicality, the home of the Chief of Police, Mr. Tsipras. I didn't mean to talk about it, but I was caused by Mr. Raguss because he made an inappropriate attack in New Democracy, accusing us of yellowism because we exercised the right to comment on what the Chief of Police has given him public. I'm referring to the data on the rental of the property in Sounio. Listen, ladies and gentlemen: it is certainly the right of each political leader - and so also the Chief of Police Vice-President - to choose the place of both his main and secondary residence. It is, however, also his obligation, when it is requested, to provide the information requested in order to explain that all the actions that have been taken are transparent, legitimate and useful and not just to explain it by quoting a contract, but also by saying that these facts are true. In order to convince one must comply with the lessons of common experience and logic. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I in my public speech do not use nor exaggerate or confront myself personally. I'm just trying to use arguments. It is well known that the rent is set at a percentage of the commercial value of the property in the contracts. This is from 4% to 6%. If, therefore, we have a real estate of EUR 1,200,000, its lease value determined by 4% to 6% is between EUR 4,000 and 6,000. So 4,000 to 6,000 euros is the perpetual renting of a property in the Sunion region, whose commercial value is 1.200,000 euros. I ask you: is anyone convinced that a rental of EUR 500, when the usual is ten times higher, is it actually? The average citizen is rightly wondering: Is this a favor? Someone's doing a favor for the Chief of Officer County when he hires his property ten times below what's the usual rent or is this a case of tax evasion? Because you realise that the rent that the leaser and the leaser have to declare is the real rent. I say that to put things in order and talk without insults, no slogans, no slander. I would also like to read you a passage from a parliamentary text that I have before me: 'The state recognises the extremely difficult work and the exceptional social provision of police officers, prison officers, external guardians and penitentiaries in the critical battle against the krone pandemic'. This is the explanatory statement of an amendment tabled and subsequently withdrawn and signed by the Members of SYRIZA Spirtzi Christos, Kalamatian Dionysius - Charalambos and Eleftheriad Sultana. So this reference, which is included in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, is clearly directly opposite, is completely and totally inconceivable to what the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA claimed, accusing the government of use of violence, demonstration of authoritarianism and unnecessarily stumbling civilians by police forces, who had persecuted the order in the center of Athens during the recent anniversaries. Of course, because I have heard the speech of the former President of the Parliament, in order to be able to justify these expressions of police violence and trampling, they need facts, they need facts. Such, ladies and gentlemen, do not exist. In the absence of the facts necessary to substantiate those designations, those designations are immaterial. The complaints were made with the same thousands of phrases that the Left uses when it wants to attack the police and the government, with the culmination of the theatrical, but not parliamentary, unacceptable move by Mr Spirtzi to offer a bouquet to the Minister in the Senate Hall. However, SYRIZA and the Left cannot avoid answering to citizens' ruthless questions. Why are they undermining compliance with measures to protect the coronary with the obvious support or incitement of various groups to gather and protest, in violation of the Constitution and the laws of the State? What is behind the hypocritical interest of SYRIZA and the Left in honoring the anniversarys? Are they looking forward to disruption, chaos and disasters so that those fighting for the right of protest and then denounce the Government for failure to comply with the order and protection measures of public and private property? Ladies and gentlemen, the government, with the faithful application of the Constitution and the laws, ensures order and social peace and protects the health and property of citizens. With regard to the draft law under discussion, almost all of the colleagues from the opposition parties criticised the fact that the competence of anti-criminal policy, which of course includes penalisation, was entrusted to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Stereotypes reiterated that New Democracy allegedly chooses repression to enforce law and order, without of course clarifying what they disagree, with the law or the order. At the same time, however, everyone agrees that the situation in prisons during the previous period as a result of the regime in prison institutions was nothing but satisfactory. We recall that during the SYRIZA - ANEL ruling a record of homicide in the Koridal prisons among the prisoners had occurred. Can one be one of the representatives of today's Vice-President proud of this information published in relation to your period of governance? The famous Law Friday, a piece of legislation that, according to the confession of the then Minister of Justice, failed in practice, after allowing thousands of prisoners, many of whom were barbies, to be released within a short space, had specific consequences for the Greek society. Have you considered the mass release of detainees, what has it done for their penitentiary and social reintegration? The question that systematically avoids SYRIZA Members answer remains: You were unable to predict the consequences of the Act of Friday or did so deliberately Therefore, while the own Vice-Presidents of the Committee of Inquiry are in the words to change the existing legislative framework immediately, now that the government is actually taking action, instead of approving or writing in this effort, they are asking themselves - and indeed from the Stepping of the House - why the system has now changed and what purpose the change is supposed to serve, when these changes in the Penitentiary Code are targeted and specific. We are not changing the penitentiary system in force in the country. We are bringing targeted changes in order to adapt penitentiary legislation to the current situation. The first part of this draft law attempts to reform the overall penitentiary system and to establish a modern institutional framework that meets the current needs. The second part provides for necessary amendments to the Social Welfare Fund in the Security Body, hereinafter referred to as being renamed, regulating staff and interoperability issues, in order to respond more effectively to the needs of its members. The third part deals with the malfunctions and service needs of the Ministry of Protection, in view of the current, extremely demanding circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been written, punishment is the last and least effective instrument in the hands of the legislator to prevent crime. So penitentiary should precede the anti-criminal planning. The General Secretariat of Crime Policy is being reconstructed as a new structure for the public administration, which will only be aimed at the effective and responsible administration and management of the detention shops in the country. Furthermore, this draft law attempts to put an end to the abuse of the licence system and to facilitate the social reintegration of the released. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also use my second language to complete it. In this context, the procedure for admission of detainees to detention facilities or nursing establishments is redefined. From now on, sick prisoners will be introduced into special treatment centres under strict conditions, i.e. with the help of specific medical or psychiatric reasons. More stringent conditions are introduced for permitting detainees, because there are increasing cases of breach of conditional leave, while stricter conditions are laid down for the transfer of detainees to rural detention stores, as well as to the central storage of prison material. In other words, the bill does not allow certain categories of prisoners to be transferred to or kept in a rural prison. This is the case if, at the expense of the prisoner, there is a criminal prosecution not only for a felony, as was the case to date, but also for a crime involving violence or a threat of violence. The transfer of the sentenced crimes of terrorism is therefore prohibited from now on. It is also planned to develop the penitentiary structure of "REANOPOS" in more cities, in order to create a modern, supportive network with the cooperation of local actors, with the smooth reintegration of deported people into social life. Minister, as you well know in Fokida, there are two prisons: the Mallands and the Prevadorio Amphissa. Local communities, in cooperation with your Ministry and the relevant bodies, are ready to welcome even these support structures. Ladies and gentlemen, the modern penitentiary system must be aimed at real penitentiary, which necessarily involves - and I should like to stress this - depending on the perpetrator's personality and the seriousness of the crime a sufficient time for real elaboration of the sentence and is not - it must not be the penitentiary system - a system of opportunities and opportunities that restrict its real elaboration, as it seems to be seen by the Qualitative Opposition, but also by the other parties on the left. It cannot and should not have this structure our penitentiary system. The main point of the bill is the provisions on transporting prisoners to the country's agricultural prisons, since these are considered the achilles heel of the penitentiary system. In the period 2016-2019 approximately eighteen prisoners escaped only from the rural prisons of Kassandra and so many of the prisons in Tyrinth. On the basis of the bill, the privilege of transferring to rural prisons can now have it for persons who have actually served their sentences, who have been conducted properly and have not been subject to disciplinary action. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe in the rule expressed by French judge Dekaz, that the law must follow the guilty one in prison, where he has led him. The detainee is, of course, subject to a special regime of deprivation of his freedom, imposed by the needs of prevention and penalisation, but he does not cease to have rights such as the right to decent living and to protect health and life. It is important to allow private doctors to provide medical services on the basis of the draft law, as is important for the referral of prisoners to examinations and hospitals to public hospitals. And this right should not depend, Minister, solely on the distance of these hospitals from the headquarters of the detention store. It is not a matter for your Ministry, but it affects how to deal with medical incidents in prisons. There is an example that the Citizens' advocate says in his annual report, if I'm not mistaken, of 2018. In 2018, he became a prisoner in the Malrin prison who needed a beard surgeon. On the basis of the current health regions, the Moroccan prisons fall under the 5th RS. So the detainee had to be transported to the remote Larissa - because the hospital in Lamia had no specialty of a female surgeon - instead of going to nearby Patras. It's been a long time, due to the misappropriation of which the patient ended up. I am referring to this in order to demonstrate that there are malfunctions which we must deal with in dialogue, namely, in order to improve the conditions of detention and, of course, to improve all the facilities and services provided by law for prisoners. To conclude and not abuse the time, I must say that they really deserve congratulations to the Ministry of Civil Protection, because the draft law under discussion manages to upgrade our penitentiary system institutionally and with the necessary infrastructure, while putting an end to immunity and abuse. I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the draft law as an incision to our penitentiary, because it really improves the situation in the penitentiary institutions and manages to impose conditions of prison. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u148	We said that Members should be involved and then the parliamentary representatives followed. But, if you're urgent, you can talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u149	How many speakers will speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u150	We said two Members should speak, then the Deputy Minister and another parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u151	I'm waiting, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today seeks to bring together in a single piece of legislation the reform of the penitentiary system, the upgrading of the services of the General Secretariat of Crimes Policy, the strengthening of the Agency for Security Bodies, the simplification of procedures for the better functioning of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the regulation of the application of the protection of unaccompanied minors who are deprived of a safe stay. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill that comes without a explanatory statement, despite the constitutional provision to reflect the spirit of the legislator. Let me remind you, until yesterday, the current government accused SYRIZA - ANEL government of the many legislative acts of the period 2015-2019. Today, we see the New Democracy Government either as a justification for the pandemic on legislative acts or to legislate without an explanatory statement. However, this, ladies and gentlemen, leads to a deterioration in the role of Parliament, and I would say that it leads to a decline in the quality of democracy. In particular, when it comes to legislating in the field of rights. We in the Change Movement, in PASOK, feel that the government is using SYRIZA's mistakes and failures, namely the law on early releases to justify the implementation of its policy to the public. A policy, I would say, deeply conservative because the core of this legislation is to tighten up the institution of licences and the conditions for switching to rural prisons. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the government's conservative political attitude is reflected in this bill. It should also be noted that it is not understood why stricter regulations are introduced in these matters, based on the spirit of modern state-law, which the government is today proclaiming. This spirit, of course, is not reflected in this bill. Besides, there is no report, study or other evidence to suggest the need to tighten up the institution of licences. I would like to remind you here of what the Citizens' Counsel said at the hearing of the bodies. He said, therefore, that, after his own investigation, it appears that from 2015 until today, 97% to 98 % of the permits granted are met. And that, Minister, let it be held. Because, ladies and gentlemen, on a legitimate rule of law, a basic task of the penitentiary system is to prepare the prisoner for his normal reintegration into society. Here, too, it must be stressed and I will insist that it is a great conquest for the field of human rights the institution of authorisation. I would say here, Mr Chrysochide, that it is another great conquest that has taken place in the days of the PASOK government. And as our good colleague and rapporteur, Mr Kamine, said, it is unforgivable to legislate in the field of rights for the public, especially when there are no or are not, I would say, any other additional institutions, such as the institution of social work or alternative measures, such as electronic surveillance. We insist on the completely wrong government decision on permits because this institution is a precondition, I would say, for the normal social reintegration of detainees, as I have said. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe's security is not being strengthened in this rough and fragmentary way. Instead, the main axes of anti-crime policy are the prevention, rational distribution of prisoners, in order to carry out the penitentiary decently and on the basis of decent living conditions by strengthening psychosocial activities and infrastructures for the protection of human rights, administrative strengthening of the human resources of the penitentiary system. And all that to get the prisoner out. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to recall that the penitentiary code that the government wants to change today was proposed by us as PASOK government in 1999 and adopted it as a government. It was an innovative reform. It is worth wondering, therefore, how the current Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, who himself, at the time, proposed all these progressive innovative regulations, how he is now retreating to the field of rights. So we do not understand why the government is weakening the institution of agricultural prisons, by shrinking the conditions for switching to them, particularly today, Minister, in the midst of the pandemic, this is incomprehensible, in overcompensated prisons which do not guarantee decent living conditions, which health is in danger. And we do not understand why today the government removes this safety valve, I would say, of the penitentiary system. We have more than eleven thousand prisoners, as you said, while infrastructure and capacity are for far less. And that should be our concern today that the country is operating under a lockdown regime aimed at protecting public health. You, Minister, nowadays bring a bill called'reform' and instead of solving the basic problem of overcrowding prisons, with your regulations you are making it worse. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the draft legislation you are proposing today and we also have positive regulations. And that should be said. For example, in Article 5 on the transfer of the Penitentiary Affairs Council to the Ministry of Civil Protection, it is a positive development. Also, in Article 9 for the development of the REANOOS network, this is a positive development. Also in Article 41 on the abolition of the protection of minors. This is a positive development. However, Minister, at the end of the day, I would say that what we disagree with is the core of the bill. And the core of the bill is the one who finds us opposing. Because this leads the penitentiary system to retreat to fundamental issues. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement, PASOK, during our previous parliamentary term, has tabled a full report on the drafting of the report by the Special Standing Committee on Penitentiary Systems and other structures for incarceration of detainees. This report has been accepted by all the forces of Parliament. Minister, in addition to describing the current situation, the Change Movement - PASOK tabled concrete proposals. Proposals that will trigger a substantial dialogue on a modern penitentiary system for our country, which will involve both prisons, rural prisons or high security prisons, as has been mentioned by some colleagues. We therefore expect you to enter this great debate as well. It's up to you. We're waiting for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. I will give the floor to Mr. Akarios Lazarides, from the New Democracy. It has been requested in time - and so I will give the floor - to the State Secretary, Mr Leuteris Economou, and then to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Adamopoulou. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a tangible proof that the reforms promised by Mr Mitsotakis are progressing unnecessarily, regardless of the objective difficulties of the multiple crises that our country faces. This legislation therefore undertakes to bring together in a single text provisions that reform the country's afflicted penitentiary system and adapt it to the modern requirements, in the light of public security, respect for the rights of detainees, and the more qualitative and effective functioning of services. They shall simplify administrative procedures with a view to more efficient operation of individual services of the Ministry of Civil Protection. They rationalise the placement of staff, both newly established and already existing structures of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the General Secretariat for Anti-Criminal Policy and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. They upgrade the services of the General Secretariat of Crime Policy and institutionalise a modern legal framework that will govern its action. They establish the functioning of the Inspection and Control Body of detention stores, in order to determine the conditions for detention, order and compliance with security measures. They strengthen the Social Security and Welfare Fund by subjecting this subsidiary insurance to the Single Insurance and Welfare Fund. They update the transport system and thus restore the draft law the sense of law and moral, legal and democratic order. Let me turn to this. Article 3 expressly prohibits the transfer to rural prisons and the central warehouse of prison material to those who have been sentenced to terrorist offences. In this way, it comes to modify a 2015 provision allowing for the transfer of barbers and even terrorists to rural prisons, where conditions of more open living prevail, on clearly better terms. Bad news, then, for the chief-terrorist Koufantina, but also for those who, in August 2018, took care to give biomastics - which are also told in the army - a transfer to the mosquitos. Transfer given, can I remind you of who? To the man who has taken political responsibility for the action of the terrorist organisation, he has been sentenced to 11 times to life for two hundred offences in eighty-four actions, including eleven murders and never showed the slightest vote of remorse. Transferring from a high-security prison to a, as it is called, open agricultural prison, with the possibility of reducing its sentence. Where every day of the sentence you count for two. Where prisoners give the presence to an invitation of prisoners every afternoon and the reason for their honour that they will not escape. No, we are not concerned that his sentence should be reduced so that he can be released. After all, this was taken care of by the scandalous licenses given to them to walk down the center of Athens, on the same roads that scattered death. With this, then, the article ends the hails and justice begins, stop the rugs in terrorists and returns the penitentiary order. I am sorry to have to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that violence has no ideology, it is violence. Terrorism is not good when it has a left ideological background, it is terrorism. We too condemn it vertically, unequivocally and to the absolute extent. Why am I addressing you? Because you just can't do the same. Have you ever reacted when SYRIZA candidate Mania Brazevski called the murderers of 17 November political prisoners? Did you react when SYRIZA officials testified as a defense witness at the trial on November 17th? Did you react when the executive of SYRIZA Nikos Giannopoulou presented Koufontina's book at a special event in the Law of Athens and welcomed him when he went out with the oppressed licenses of the Law of Parafonopoulos? React when the then SYRIZA MP Vasso Leva visited the hospital in Kufontina to assure him that the SYRIZA Government would abolish Type III prisons, improve the detention conditions of the 17 November detained killers and ensure that they are granted more permits, something that was, of course, kept in full? Did you react when the Minister responsible for civil protection in the first government of SYRIZA Yiannis Panousis depart by denouncing two Members then of SYRIZA as well as Pano Lamprou as friendly terrorists? Did you react when the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Makhis Balaouras described 17 November as an organization that had an ideal in favour of man? Did you react when candidate MEP Myrsini Loizou posted that the victims of 17 November should stand up and apologize to us? I'm sorry, but no, at least not convincing. For us, and I conclude, Mr President, justice is the core of social organisation and function both in the legal sense of the term and in everyday terms. What is happening today, and I owe a very big shot to the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and Michael Chrysochoidis, is a real administration of justice. I may be unfair to the rest of the provisions of this draft law, but justice is attributed because Koufantinas returns to Korydallus, where he has to, while none of his victims can go back. At the same time their relatives are doomed to live with the void of loss in the biennial. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Now is the reason for the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Leuteris Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in this House to complete the process of drafting and voting under the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection. The purpose of my brief speech is to clarify certain aspects of this draft law, while at the same time responding to a number of allegations and views which have been made on several occasions and which, unfortunately, find inaccurate by far from reality. They claimed that the government was inactive in the face of the outbreak of the COVID19 pandemic, leaving unprotected workers and detainees in detention stores. No more untrue. I have personally informed a number of Members through the parliamentary scrutiny procedure in replying written and oral to forty-seven questions and two topical questions, which I put today in the Minutes, about all our actions and initiatives. I have repeatedly tabled numerous documents and tables in the hope that the same interest in information will be shown by those who are today indebted to the government for indifference to the health threat. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, the information is constant, the information is complete and is re-issued before you today. I hope that even after what has been heard, they will receive your attention. There was also a lot of talk about alleged indifference in the recruitment of doctors and nurses in detention stores. Indeed, it is a matter of the highest priority, which we are carefully examining in cooperation with the relevant ministries. I would like to point out that it is a chronic and complex issue because both in the past with the notice 4K/2014 and with the 6K/2018 significant number of doctors' posts remained undisclosed due to a lack of candidates. From 4K it was twenty-five and from 6K it was eight of the nine published posts in total. It is an issue that concerns us and which we are examining as a whole and at the level of incentives provided to find the best possible solution. I should like to refer here to the points made by a number of members of the relevant Commission regarding the setting up of thirty new organic positions in the General Secretariat for Crime Policy. The examination of this issue requires that we have a number of elements in mind. Firstly, we are not talking about recruitment, as several people have claimed. On the other hand, there will be a ministerial decision which will provide for a relative distribution between existing and new addresses. Their payment will come from integration in the context of secondment mobility. Secondly, it is useful to bear in mind that the needs of the General Secretariat of Crime Policy together with the other needs of the Ministry of Justice regarding its other powers were served by a DGI of about twenty-three people. The corresponding DGI service of the General Secretariat of Crime Policy for the particularly high needs it faces today is covered by just eleven people. Thirdly, the list concerning the provision of thirty new organic positions in the General Secretariat of Crime Policy and the specificities included do not prevent a corresponding initiative in the future from including all those specialities that will further stimulate the psychosocial dimension of our penitentiary policy. Before we move on to this, however, we need immediate treatment of issues of malfunctioning, administration and management in order to make the central agency capable of carrying out its task again, ensuring the proper day-to-day functioning of the country's entire penitentiary offices. Several comments were also made on the establishment of two new addresses, technical services and e-government. I would like to say this: ladies and gentlemen, it is some time to stop philosophing about the obvious. Some wonder what the usefulness of setting up the Technical Support Directorate is. They should therefore explain to us who is responsible and capable of making a study, to a technical intervention in areas and buildings within the Directorate-General for Criminal Policy without the existence of this address. That is exactly what this provision is curing, which, in conjunction with Article 8, ensures the necessary staff. Some people have again voiced concerns about the usefulness of the establishment of an Electronic Governance Directorate. I would like to point out that the establishment of this address will make a decisive contribution to the digitalisation process of the General Secretariat of Crimes and to actions that will extend to the entire range of the country's penitentiary network. At the same time it is the necessary tool to ensure the implementation of programmes and initiatives that we have launched in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance and with the relevant ministries. We have already taken the necessary steps with the Information Society and the Ministry of Justice for the project "Television conference services in court and penitentiary and provision of information services on the course of boards and exhibits and courts, electronic board". Furthermore, we are in a phase of consultation with the Ministry of Health and the Information Society for the establishment of a telemedicine system in primary health care and interconnection with existing systems to include the structures of the detention stores in the country, with a view to improving the health coverage of detainees. It makes clear, therefore, that we need to establish this address, without which we are unable to implement initiatives aimed at supporting detainees and workers in detention stores. I have also listened very carefully to what has been said about disabled people. If it has not come to the attention of some people, I would like to inform the House and those who are following us that, in response to the constant demands of the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities, we are already involved in drawing up the national action plan for their rights. In close and continuous cooperation with the Centre for Security Studies, we have drawn up an integrated operational plan, which is summarised in the document I present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The steps taken are rapid and we will soon have a full picture of the needs and interventions needed to support the community of MEDA, as it really deserves. I would like to make a point about the strong remarks made by some people about the lack of staff in detention stores. First, it would be a proof of political honesty if those who took these legislative initiatives, which led to the eve of the 2019 elections, were to leave forty-two former municipal policemen from the human workforce working in detention stores, necessary and necessary staff who have been continuously reduced, as happened with fifty-five more former municipal policemen, who joined the first mobility cycle in 2019. As far as the notice 6K/2018 is concerned, it has admittedly been unduly delayed for reasons which do not concern the handling of the Government. On the other hand, we are working on an initiative so that we will soon be able to receive some new staff from this notice. Having identified the causes of the long delay we are trying to cure them for future recruitment of necessary personnel, through procedures described in Article 11 of that draft law. Therefore, any claim and question concerning the Government's sincere intentions to strengthen the staff working in detention stores cannot be upheld. To conclude, I would like to stress that the draft law under discussion is an integrated effort of many months, which heals a number of malfunctions by reconstructing a central agency in areas where increasing needs have shown a lack of technical and management competence. It is therefore the duty of the Government to intervene in a legislative, decisive and holistic manner in the light of these new circumstances. We therefore call on all Members to stand responsibly in voting for this government's legislative initiative, ignoring those who are aware of policy as a repetition of specific positions and opinions on issues which have been answered in a large way in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u158	Thank you. I would now like to ask Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, to come to Stepma. In order to organise the debate, four MPs will then speak, in turn: Mr. Xanthiopoulos from SYRIZA, Mr.Tascakis from New Democracy, Mr. Papastasis from the Communist Party of Greece and Mrs. Zoe Makri from New Democracy. At this point, if a parliamentary representative needs to be asked for the floor, he will have the opportunity, if necessary, to go back and move from the list. Here, Mrs. Adamopoulou, you have the floor and you have the apologies for before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u159	It's okay. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you referred to your speech in relation to the intentions of this bill which we are discussing today, that it is intended to strengthen democracy. Whether this is the case, I'll be placed later. But I am obliged to refer to the real anti-democratic dilemma that we are experiencing, in relation to the events of the anniversary of the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou, following, of course, the irrationality that we experienced - and Members and citizens - on the anniversary of 17 November. In fact, there is a diversion, which has become normal. I am referring first of all to the incident of seeing flowers dissolved in the monument of the murdered 15-year-old, in one, we would say, at a time of demonstration of power, an unspeakable move, which, of course, I am not saying is expressing the whole police force, but there is audiovisual material that records this. I should like to mention the fact that the pandemic has worked, in order to violate citizens' rights, to investigate their personal items, to see unnecessarily conceived and targeted trade unions, doctors, at the time when they end their newspapers, lawyers while carrying out their defence duties. We see criminalization, not just political life. We see even the exercise of the legal service being criminalised, even when these people are going to carry out their defence duties, forgetting, overlooking that lawyers are above all co-legislators of justice. I would also like to refer to an incident involving two minors. They were arrested when they were simply walking unreservedly on the day of the anniversary of the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou, without breaking any sanitary measures, on the grounds that code 6 that is sport is not provided for. They were brought to the police station, where they were subjected to real psychological violence, in order to sign the fine, because otherwise they were told that they would not be able to object. The children terrified finally signed the fine and were not even granted the right to see their lawyers. I will also refer to the very persuasive event of the epileptic crisis suffered by one of the detainees. According to reports and testimonies - you can deny it - the policemen were watching the child pull blood out of his mouth and if the arrestees did not intervene, the child may have lost his life for it and by their intervention he finally managed to stay in the hospital. So, under the pretext of pandemic, we see a pogrom of arbitrariness, a pogrom of terrorism and repression. Of course we are observing the phenomena of violence. Can I refer to the events of the Indar family, the violence that has been done? Should we refer to Kathy's family in Sepolis? Should we refer to incidents of violence in Jannah, Galachi? There are many incidents, and all this is pretentious of observing health measures, when conditions of increased contribu­tion were observed at the closed amphitheatre of Petros Rallie on December 6, where sixty two incumbents and about twenty policemen were counted. It is very regrettable that these phenomena do not only take place. The most regrettable thing is that any concept of rule of law and legal certainty has finally been abolished. I'm going to dare say we're observing patronage patronage. That's why? Because we see a culture of impunity and immunity of all these incidents prevail. The worst of all is that disciplinary action is not being carried out, that the public prosecutors are not intervening, that criminal prosecutions are not being persecuted, but that investigation is finally being carried out for party leaders, that MPs are being targeted in the exercise of their political duties for statements they make. So this culture of impunity must be broken, and we will certainly be very positive in a bill, which will provide for the democratisation of the police, the education and training of those people who, of course, risk their lives. We're not talking about the entire police force. We are referring to a part of this House, which is well or badly the truth, is that it has a pathetic effect. So, in such a draft law on progressive and modernisation reform that is consistent with European developments, of course, and we will be very positive. On the bill, we are also experiencing a strong sense of embarrassment in relation to the issues of penitentiary policy, because we see that the Ministry seems not to understand, not to want to understand these basic and basic issues, not to properly manage the issues of penitentiary policy and not to understand the social importance of such sensitive issues. Of course, it was fatal for this to happen after the New Democracy took over the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy with the "so I want" to the Ministry of Civil Protection. If we look at the 2019 news, we will see that a year and a half later the most pessimistic forecasts and hardest reviews are justified. This was presented in the most straightforward way during the debate in the Commission by people working on the frontline of the prison. What did they bring us? That there is no doubt that this change took place without planning, without planning. The work of the Secretary-General for Crime is, in common, a failure, its institutional balance negative. We are talking about people who have no contact, no knowledge of this object, the particularly sensitive and idiosyncrasic object, in which people who ultimately hold the shelves of haughtiness, analgesia, obsessed with dangerous antiquated ideologies, without contact with science, without reference to best practices, without any connection to the propositions of liberal criminal law and without any invoicing of data. Sadly, therefore, all these practices are inconsistent with the methodology and scientific perception and certainly do not coincide with the modern European spirit and European political culture that has inherited specific fundamental principles and concepts in the field of criminal law, prisons and rights. On the occasion of Mr Petsa's infamous list, Commissioner Yurova has recently put in the same dash, in the same position as Hungary and Poland - two Member States of the Union - our country in the areas of transparency, justice and rights. In the other issues, however, as evidenced by the total legislative and operational sum of the Ministry, you seem to want to remain in this position, you want the country to be identified with the most backwards. So let's go to the vision of the bill, which is a vision of 'new- penitentiary', but from which, as the Citizens' Ombudsman pointed out, there is no holistic approach and the long-term perspective for a comprehensive review of the Penal Code, with the incorporation of the respective European and international developments in our legal order. There is no provision for social, family and labour reintegration of detainees, respecting their fundamental rights, reducing the rate of relapse, improving the conditions of incarceration and addressing its negative consequences. You remembered after nearly nine months, and after the situation arrived in the unprecedented, you should deal with the treatments. We left them in their luck, leaving sixty-seven nurses and a one-digit number of doctors for thirty-four detention stores. And not only that, but in most prisons they don't even work in hospitals, there are no openings, not even doctors who sign urgent transfers of prisoners when they need to be hospitalized outside prison. Now, then, you are looking at contracts for doctors and nurses by visit, the practice that in the case of doctors has been tested, has not worked effectively or responded to the real needs. Who are these? They were transferred to you by the penitentiary officials themselves: Permanent medical and nursing staff. What should the bill have done? He should have examined why doctors who are from time to time assigned to Greek prisons depart from and waived from the prisons and obviously had made sure that the structural gaps, shortcomings and problems in the prisons were corrected. What else doesn't the bill do? It does not contribute to decongestion of detention stores, it does not support central choices successful for decades. It's not just there, it does the exact opposite. It comes to scan, abolish two penitentiary institutions, very important and tested, such as licenses and rural prisons. As far as the issue of licences is concerned, which is the fact that they contribute to the reintegration and resocialisation of the prisoner, the penitentiary officials themselves have told you this extremely well. The authorisation is necessary for the system and a right for the detainee and a means of reducing the negative consequences of detention. In fact, in 98% of cases, the conditions for granting the licence were fully respected. What the explanatory statement says is that the tightening up of the licensing framework does not strengthen the institution's failure. The Citizens' Ombudsman himself in his memorandum speaks of failure, i.e. breach of the terms of 3%. So I repeat 98% of the institution's success rate in the thirty-two years of its existence. In fact, we do not believe that there is another institution that operates so successfully and you cancel it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u160	Yeah, I've put you five minutes now, but you're entitled to it, because by mistake I put seven. Go ahead, I'm not interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u161	Okay, thanks. So the policy applied to this bill is not just unnecessarily and backwardly. For the vast majority of cases the minimum time to build, in order for the prisoner to be able to apply for a licence, will coincide with the minimum time to build the condition of dismissal, i.e. either they will take leave when they are released or they will not get permission at all. So what is the meaning and value of this logic left in the institution of the licence? No point! Another point which arises: the proposed system actually favours abstentions in prison work, that is, it undermines anti-motivation and employment as proof of a positive turn-over. So should prisoners who are working, who show a real, substantial improved behaviour in prisons, not be granted a premium? Shouldn't he be the target? For rural prisons, another efficient and successful institution that enters the plaster is frozen for no serious reason, without any serious counterproposal. Some eight hundred prisoners living and working in these prisons, people who have proved to be an improvement, should return to closed prisons. In other words, we will have more supernumerals and then these prisoners will be treated more unfavourablely, even though they prove they are conscientious and have responded to the needs of the rural prison. By returning, of course, what will happen? It's just going to serve another kind of activity, and that's how the vicious circle of relapse begins. Instead of discussing the proposals for the reconstruction of the four rural prisons, you will leave them without a penitentiary, without a productive object. Carcases of concrete and uncultivated fields will be their end. Another paradox: a prisoner will be able to take leave, that is to say, he will be temporarily released on conditions of free living, but he will not be able to move and work in a rural prison. Really, in what logic do these choices obey? I cannot, of course, remind you of the abolition of the socially beneficial labour, the suspension, but it has been virtually weakened, has been abolished. On August 9, 2019, you said that you are suspending it in order to organize it and so far we have not received any information in relation to the evolution of this decision. So until you decide to organise the institution, will the country continue to be free of charge, i.e. the institution of the financial penalty must be promoted, 'who pays just cleansed'? We obviously consider that you have referred to some of the problems falsely and pretexts. From my personal experience, what I have seen is that the institution was working well and there were structures, which were willing to carry out that sentence there, the alternative sentence. One more thing: the Minister told the committee that all Europe today is moving to tighten up - tough stricter - the institutional framework and not just. I have a number of points: England, Germany, Italy, Spain and recently France, where we have seen what has happened with the provisions on the videotape of police officers. Two issues are raised here: firstly, you call on states and you are talking about tightening up, without first telling us what this is and what the situation was before. Let us remember that the Greek system has already been judged to be very strict internationally, while the systems to which the Minister referred as being milder. If, then, they move from milder to softer models, which are also questionable, we move from very strict to extreme. So we end up comparing apples with oranges. Secondly, you said what was going on with the provisions on video recording in France. After the popular outcry, these provisions were withdrawn. On the contrary, there is a post here in Greece, where police forces are recently alleged to be equipped with portable cameras. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that we support legislation that promotes European penitentiary culture, modernisation and education in police, the democratisation of the police and the implementation of the findings of science in political everyday life. However, we will condemn legislation which the President of the Federation of Penitentiary Officers himself described as unfair and unjust, as extremely problematic or dangerous. Unfortunately, because your legislation falls under the second category, we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I was impressed by the crescendo of the Minister, a preservative crescendo with regard to the Constitution and the rights of citizens. And I think that this man once declared a socialist by definition, that is, a man who perceives social sensitivities and sees individual and political rights in a social context and not as simple lines of the Constitution. So the law is not white - black. That is why the legislator has anticipated the analogous application. And as far as this logic that the Minister has told us is that it is, in any case, that it is or is being implemented or abolished, it is really a long way from the liberal approach to law. I would like to remind the Minister, because that is something he knows, that freedom is essentially the freedom of what he thinks otherwise. That is why it makes sense to listen to the other voices, and that is why the functioning of the Republic makes sense. So I come over to this bill. We see that an underground, but powerful thread connects the suspension of the constitution that we have recently experienced, with the arrest of lawyers in the exercise of their duties. Really, Minister, have the other detainees been prosecuted? Do you have any information on this, or were the only objective were the two specific colleagues? Of course, this thread continues until the bill under discussion. I shall refer to articles relating only to the penitentiary system. But no one can talk about these articles without mentioning Mrs Nicholas. With the bill, Minister, a shape is created like a Russian doll, like a bamboo. Your Ministry contains another Ministry with a hundred and sixty employees at the Anti-Criminal Policy Directorate and with an organization that does not have any other autonomous ministries. By the way, did Mrs. Nicholas really do graduate and continues to have this on the front of her resume? Can I tell you something last? The rapid test of Chinese origin, which was supplied for the penitentiary stores, is not, according to a publication, on the approved list of preparations of the World Health Organisation. You understand that every day and Mrs Nicholas add another element to her curriculum with the logic of 'we do business'. As far as these provisions are concerned, I would like to remind you of a fixed value which goes perpendicular to our criminal system. You were in jail because you were punished. You didn't come in to be punished. So the sentence has been imposed on you by the competent court, because you have actually committed an act, but prison is about a particular person who serves a sentence. For penitentiary science there is no difference between the one who committed one crime and the other crime. Therefore, introducing condemnation criteria for the awarding and functioning of the penitentiary system is both reactionary and unscientific and will in fact offer nothing to the penitentiary policy that the country must pursue. The most relevant bodies, such as the Plenary Assembly of the Presidents of the Bar Associations, the Citizens' Counselor, the Union for Rights, the Federation of Penitentiary Officials, have come here, and have said in the most emphatic way that these two institutions, the institution of the licence and the institution of the transfer to rural prisons, which are a valve of deportation and hope for the prisoners, must remain as they are, if not be more favourable to the prisoners. You are doing the whole opposite. Stimulate the conservative reflexes of society, which those who have delinquently deem them to be burnt-up paper. But it's not like that. That is the role of the state, that is the role of anti-criminal policy, that is the role of penitentiary. Unfortunately, you are once again deaf in the face of reality. I shall mention in particular four, five elements from the current bill. You call for the transfer to rural prisons not to be pending at the expense of the imprisoned procedure for acts of violence against persons or a threat of violence against persons and things. Is it really reasonable to be a coma in order to transfer to rural prisons the fact that a person who lives in prison - with all the tensions that this entails - will be grabbed by a prisoner? As a member of the Dramas, I have a personal issue with Rule 12. We have said that this famous 6K proclamation must be finished, which has been cancerd for so long. We're all burning up as a society to dismantle prisons, especially in coronary conditions. The prison's ready at Nikiforos Dramas. It's for two hundred and fifty eight prisoners, so it's too big a decommissioning that will bring to the penitentiary system. You really have an absolute responsibility that you haven't done anything for a year and a half. And since I am referring to Nikiforos prison, it would be indicative of your intentions and the simultaneous operation of the second chance school, because it is a prison starting from scratch and it is useful to serve with the best the penitentiary can offer it. We agree, of course, with regard to mentally ills, which we have also said to the committees, and we declare it once again. We have not heard the Minister say anything about transitional provisions for those who are already in rural prisons. There must be provision for these, for them to remain and serve their sentence, so that there is no mockery to return to normal prisons and for them to be re-established for their transfer to rural prisons. Minister, I would like to say that according to our penitentiary system, those who are prisoners are citizens. They are citizens who have all rights, apart from one, of their self-respect. Both the license and the transfer to the rural prisons are not a gift, it is not a reward, it is not a penny, but it is a right of the prisoners. Of course, this is a right which will be exercised under conditions, which is understandable. But you should not see it reversed by what is actually. It is unfortunate that this bill also promotes a logical fight against and crush any personal resistance, and this bill and this practice are part of all the conservative concept of the country's social problems. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Blondopoulos. Mr Kegeroglu, since you're here now, we said that four Members will speak, Mr. Pafilis has asked for the floor and then you have the floor. Mr Anastasios Publicakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Civil Protection establishes an effective and modern institutional framework that ensures both the proper functioning of the rule of law and the services and bodies of the Ministry. The Hellenic Police Corps has been despised and used brutally by the government in progress. It is a historic body, which is inextricably in the protection of democracy, in the service of state and society. Its officials, in the peculiar siege from neighbouring Turkey, gave their blood to the Hebrews and the sanitary front, with considerable losses for the large police family, expressing our grief and unlimited respect for Parliament. This draft law seeks to reform our country's established penitentiary system, with a framework of wise and corrective provisions. The aim remains to dismantle detention centres. All governments over time attempted to dismantle prisons, but significant is the government coming through simple and galantic discounts and limitations of imprisonment to evildogs. The result was to return to the crime scene successfully and to commit harder and heinous crimes against our innocent fellow citizens. I have stressed, through parliamentary control, in the past, that decongestion can be achieved with bold and visionary policies. A copy of this written question will be tabled from the time of the Opposition in the Minutes of the House. I stand out three headlines in the face of proposals: firstly, for minor cases of criminal offences of purely economic interest to establish the foundation of social work. Secondly, the conclusion of bilateral agreements with countries - members of the European Union, such as the Baltic States, the Netherlands - and not only - that have empty detention posts, so that criminals are finally before justice, can serve their sentence at the expense of the Greek state in penitentiaries with empty detention posts in those countries. Thirdly, the conclusion of agreements on judicial, penitentiary and police cooperation with third countries through the European Union or even bilaterally with those of high interest is a wise political and service act. The New Democracy has already given its high priority programme statements to upgrade the training of Security College officials and their continuing retraining. Article 36 provides only for an increase in study time at the Hellenic Police Police Police School for an additional six months, with the aim of harmonising with the Armed Forces Schools, but without matching them to everything. Our Minister has already committed himself to the plenary and the competent Standing Committee at the hearing of the bodies and authorities to the following draft legislation on vocational training. However, the training framework of executives requires fundamental structural changes with a wide range of educational and radical reform. It is necessary to legislate in this respect because we have achieved the impossible in a unified House and have created inherent weaknesses in it, I believe not incurable. It was time for the big decisions. Visual actions were taken by the law of homogenisation and graduation at the beginning of 2008, but unfortunately the law on proper education reform did not go ahead, which solved all the incurable weaknesses of this House. At this point I would like to stress that Michael Chrysochoidis can do so. It is, in fact, a joint acceptance of the Evros, and it is a well-trained Minister of Government in my constituency and my hometown. I thank him, because with the head of the country's Prime Minister inspiringly they applied the doctrine of security and defence in the region. They defended our land borders with the help of local society. Greece achieved the first post-war victory against Turkey. Of course the government, by means of measures of physical, technical, electronic and electrical nature, as far as the protection of borders is concerned, but also by the application of the prevention doctrine by force, sends a message of a serious country but also a strong one. Fortunately, my motto "Mustrated Evros means strong and secure Greece". Mr Minister, Evros is an open and cross-cutting society with points of entry and not just. It is the most beautiful memory of the greatest empire in the world, which is at the crossroads of North and South, East and West, where three cultures and two religions meet. The so-called "fence" in the commonly speaking language, but also in the official documents of the Greek state, is unfair to my country, Evros and insulting the Jews. The internationally accepted term is a 'prohibiting technical barrier', as we started it visually in 2007. With you on account of your responsibilities, we can slowly achieve it. Already the Ministry of Citizen Protection with the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police proceeded with the ranking and recruitment of the four hundred border guards, who have served the border guards of the county. We also have the new forthcoming competition for the ranking of eight hundred new fixed-term border guards, the six hundred of which will be allocated to the border guard services of the extreme prefecture. Mr Minister, I have already tabled a written question on the documented request by many Evriers to increase the age limit of candidates in this competition from twenty-eight to thirty-two years - a copy of this written question I will be presenting in the Minutes of this House -, in essence giving the opportunity of life through professional rehabilitation to Evros residents to stay in their homes and there defend their homes, because the neighbor is persistent, radio and panacea and reiterates himself. I also wish to emphasise another legacy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u166	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u167	I am referring to the consolidation of two disparate structural schemes of the Greek Police in Evros, this Department of Border Guarding of Tychure with the local Police Department. These services should acquire their self-interest in terms of effectiveness. Finally, I update the permanent and time-consuming request regarding the final settlement of the issue of the seconded one hundred or twenty police officers serving with the “ASPIDA” programme in Evros Prefecture since 2012 at their own expense. I stressed that these children with all the police forces of all categories of Evros, against open borders policy, kept the country's ambition and philosopheria upright. I must acknowledge that you have embraced these officials with care, recognizing their offer and consuming their concerns. The question, however, continues to exist and has not been resolved, in mutual terms...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u168	Please, finish, Mr. Prison. You've already spoken nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u169	I shall conclude, Mr President. I welcome that you have accepted the proposal of the trade union federations and other associations for the reorganisation of the Security Welfare Fund, so that they could obtain all the privileges that were provided for in the relevant Cities Police for shareholders' nursing and medical care. I am sure that you will also accept their request for the management of this House's officials and not for them to be dispersed into agencies or independent authorities, as they are carried for the Citizens' Counselor. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u170	Thank you too, Mr. Prussakis. Mr. Nikolaos Papanastasis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. Mr. Papastasis, are you on the line? Can you hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u171	Mr. President, do I sound?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u172	Yes, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. Today, in this bill, we are discussing provisions on the penitentiary system, the insurance funds, education, the awarding of grades, etc. As far as the penitentiary system is concerned, first of all, let us make it clear that, apart from authoritarian and ineffective, government perception of dealing with the penitentiary, it is clear here that the absolute impossibility of government policy to address the causes of crime, its inability to implement effective measures to prevent and combat crime, but also measures to reintegration and penalise it. We are opposed to this penitentiary policy. We do so at every opportunity, of course, by putting forward proposals at the same time. Not only does the government solve the real serious problems of the prisoners in the penitentiary - human warehouses, but it exacerbates them even more. We stress, however, that all urban governments in order to ensure the functionality of the storm of anti-grass laws they take also need an anti-grassian legal framework. This law-enforcement supports the violence of the applicable anti-grass legislation. In addition, the current legal framework ensures social inequality and sound exploitation of the working class. This role is played by state terrorism, the attacks of the repressive mechanisms against the people's and labour movement, the growing sense of fear, the threat and the oppression of unemployment, employers' terrorism, the insecurity of the low-interested and paid wages and much more. Whether some like it or not, this is the plan used by the New Democracy Government to achieve the fear and subjection of workers. However, these are also conditions which lead people to the violation of social rules that they give birth, but they also reproduce crime. That is why, for the Government, a treaty is necessary to implement its policy in the penitentiary system or to be subject to repressive services. No opportunity will solve the problems in prisons if the social causes of crime are not tackled before all. That is why measures need to be taken, but measures need to be taken to actually operate the penitentiary system as an inter-institutional framework, so that those people who are locked up in prison can be reinstated in society smoothly. With regard to the insurance fund, these are essentially a repetition of the original provisions of Law No 3655/2008, from which it is deducted in respect of the subsidiary insurance sector. Here we should stress that EEPASA once was a robust fund. However, the implementation of the government's anti-linguistic and reinsurance policies has caused huge losses in the economies of the insured. These were losses following government orders to their administrations during the collapse of the Stock Exchange, the state's robbery with the PSI. There are responsibilities for the loss of the insured's economies. But no one in charge has accounted for, no government, despite the crocodile tears she has shed, has undertaken to restore the fund's reserves, which was their obligation. The proposed provisions for reconstituting the Fund for the Welfare and Health Sectors may seem typical, but the government's reinsurance policy is here, it is present. Nothing should reassure Greek police officers, firefighters, politicians in the direction of their next plans. The staff of the Security Bodies must not forget that both the funds and the reserves...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Papastasis, excuse me for the interruption. The Members who have a turn to speak, I would ask that they close their microphones and not be connected until we give them the floor, because the speaker does not appear on the screen. Mr. Papastasis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u175	I was saying, Mr President, that the staff of the Security Councils should not forget that both the funds and the reserves from their current subsidiary funds have been thrown into the funnel of the EIF in the past. For all this, the government's responsibilities, but also SYRIZA's, are enormous. Additional pensions have become tips. The Government of New Democracy walks on the rug found by SYRIZA and, of course, does what it knows very well, plans to do what it knows very well, to privatise supplementary pensions with disastrous consequences for the insured. As to the provision of the ranking of the Police School, a matter arises for study time. It is planned that the five semesters will be made three years in order to qualify as a maximum. That's - if you want - and a request from the police feds. Our point, of course, is that the five semesters did not work. Most of the time students, instead of being trained as they are trained, covered with service needs. So the question of police education is not just in the years of study. It is mainly the content of the government's concept of 'direction of studies' and, unfortunately, this is the direction of repression. Students through education in police schools become addicted to authoritarianism and to the doctrine "law and order". This is the governmental conception of the state and society, and it goes hand in hand or even fights it through. The results, however, are experienced by the people. The government speaks misleadingly of individual incidents. Minister, it is not an isolated case that workers and young people, migrants and refugees and the violence which they are taking against them are not individual cases. We lived the crescendo of authoritarianism, police violence and barbaric repression at the Polytechnic. It was experienced by those who honoured this anniversary. It was an excellent combination of "appropriate" - within introductory terms the word - education, based on the government concept of "law and order". There was an unjustified and seastorm. But there are also optimistic messages. The Flevarios who passed us when the government sent police poles to the islands, there were voices of police who condemned the conversion of a social and humanitarian problem, such as the refugee - immigration into a police problem. Then they asked themselves: what are we? Greek police officers or the occupation army? They then called on their colleagues to draw conclusions on how the government wanted them, condemned the brutal repression and the wood against the protesters, who defended their honor and humanity against the unjust government's policy. The position of the Communist Party of Greece is that the police should only deal with the crime and not the repression of the people. Under no circumstances does it identify the majority of the police officers with the repressive mechanism they serve. The Communist Party of Greece calls on the police to organize their own resistance to their fair demands through their trade unions, to co-operate with the people, to oppose any attempt to suppress and slander them. Never now, but in the future, should the police not turn against the people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis. Mrs Zoe Makrei now has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, thank you very much. Before I place myself on the bill, I would like to say that, by listening to some of my colleagues, I found out what I expected, the anticipated ideological approaches or the generally common references to all of the matter. But I have heard some public thoughts which have made me doubts about having read the same bill as my colleagues or if they read it if they understood it. I come to the bill, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest possible reproach the New Democracy Government received from the SYRIZA and Independent Greek Government was the situation in the Greek penitentiary shops, a situation that is common secret that was far from being the ideal, unfortunately, the rule of law and democracy in our country. A collapsed penitentiary, with many pathogens that have always existed, but have been exacerbated by the rapid increase in small and large crime, which has led to the increase of prisoners in Greek prisons, with large percentages of foreigners among themselves, and the corresponding major violations within prisons. The reality is grim: insecurity, bloody cleansing of accounts, corruption, free movement of prohibited objects and substances, the existence of the directors of the underworld, free communication of prisoners, “contracts” that are planned, agreed and coordinated by means of the so-called Eldorado of Greek prisons, i.e. the penitentiary system of Korydallos, organizing luxurious parties in cells of notorious criminals who had been converted into suites, with casino pools, fast food distribution. It was an unpleasant reality, but with the tolerance of the state. Let us not forget, however, that prisons and, more generally, penitentiary policy has always been for the government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks an unnegotiable fortress of the rightholders, with particular sensitivity to the privileged treatment of those condemned for terrorism, for whom there was special care and honor. However, the krone of all actions was the adoption and application of the Act of Friday. In the name of decongestion of the penitentiary stores, criminals were released, and with their exit they committed new felonies. Within a few weeks about four thousand convicts were released. But there are others. The six hundred and thirty-nine checks carried out by the Ministry of Citizen Protection in prisons throughout the country in March 2020 were found and seized, among others, drugs, knives, shovels, irons, improvised axes and mobile phones. There is another grim situation and another grim dimension. From 2015 to June 2019, numbers are negligible. The Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, was extremely descriptive at the meeting of the committee responsible. We had eight homicides, fourteen suicides, sixty-sixty-sixty-seven detentions, one hundred-seven violence against employees, sixty-sixteen escapes of prisoners, and thirty-nine appeals to the European Court of Human Rights concerning the conditions of living in detention stores, notified to the Greek authorities from July 2015 to June 2019, with a monthly average compensation of at least half a million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, through the mouth of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself, has announced drastic measures to resolve the penitentiary system. Changing navigation is now unnecessarily negotiable in order at last to have detention penitentiaries serving with respect for the fourth pillar: security, humanity, social reintegration and infrastructure. The Government, therefore, faithful to its commitments and by following the new social conditions which are created and the new social requirements, has proceeded - and that is why they are very much worthy of congratulations to the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, the Deputy Minister and their partners - to a legislative reform of the penitentiary legislation which puts order on issues which were prejudicial to the Greek society. It provides for and regulates the decongestion of detention centres, their reorganisation, their strengthening with skilled staff, the resolution of health and safety issues, and of employees and prisoners, as well as the modification of the procedure for authorising detainees and the possibility of serving the sentence in rural prisons. With this bill, the country does not hope to create a penitentiary similar to Norway where on an idyllic island there are a hundred and fifteen perpetrators and just five guards nor can it create maximum security prisons of Aden, where its images remind more private college than a penitentiary store. However, excellent work is being done by the Ministry's political leadership on infrastructure. It is only a few days ago that work on relocation of Korydalos prisons to Aspropyrgos has been started a few days ago and the status of licensing has finally been changed. Licences should be granted to those detainees who have good behaviour in detention stores and, of course, to those who observe the rules when they are licensed. The privileges of rural prisons should be enjoyed by those prisoners who show good behavior and the mood for social reintegration. They cannot make use of this privileged barbecues with serious crimes while others with less serious offences cannot transfer to rural prisons. Also in the positive direction are the new provisions under which high-risk rural prisoners and convicted of criminal offences, as are those who have been sentenced to terrorism - we in Magnesia have a personal picture of this - or those who violate the licenses or those who are subject to serious disciplinary offences or those who are accused of offences committed while being detained. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill fulfils all the conditions for the creation of a better, modern framework for the Greek penitentiary system, which meets the demands of society and the needs of penitentiary. The model that has prevailed over the last decades with prisons simply becomes an area of natural exclusion and not a place of reintegration should finally be stopped and this legislative initiative puts a brake on this conception and that is why it must be voted on. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mrs McCrey, and especially for keeping time. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Thanasis Pafilis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u179	Our rapporteur, Maria Konnakas, spoke in detail, to the extent that time allows you to make a place and, beforehand, Nikos Papastasis, who also comes from the area of the Armed Forces, referred to some aspects relating to the articles of the bill concerning the police. There is one question, and because there has been a lot of discussion, I shall refer to a number of individual issues. Is there an escalation of repression, yes or no? And repression is not just violence, though violence. It is also the climate of terrorism, it is the government's decision-making. Is there or not? Of course, we do. We say there is. We do not go into extreme situations because it does not take you to say more popular - but what we believe politically is that the government, on the pretext of coronary and health protocols, which it does not apply first - and I will say below - is moving towards a generalised repression aimed at hitting anyone who reacts to this policy with the extreme decisions. The junta put five people in. I don't make any comparisons or say we have a junta. But a ban on mergers of more than three people - incredible things! - For health reasons? We consider it to be hypocrisy, mocking and trying not just to throw the ball at the platform, but to do something worse: to deprive it of its responsibilities, its criminal responsibilities for how the pandemic has evolved, and especially the second one, but also to disorientate the world from its politics. And because Mr Chrysochides said - he is missing now, but it does not matter - he may even hear - that it is a good thing to speak to soft tones and arguments. The first issue we want to raise. What does the government say? That we live in unprecedented pandemic conditions. Indeed, pandemic is something new. Of course, it is not the cause of the economic problems and the crisis of capitalism. The pandemic brought more quickly what it would bring anyway, perhaps to a lesser extent, the crisis of capitalism. So he says, after living in unprecedented pandemic conditions, we all have to gather. I'm just saying. I don't want to use political terms. But at the same time, it has two standards. Well, let's see. First. Is the government in agreement? The government has been using the coronary pretext all this time as a pretext to unleash the roller, cracking people's rights, breaking people's income and everything else. Let one go out and answer which of the legislative plans you had, by pressing on - we know what it is - you were postponing? Not one. You've literally thrown us. Three bills a week. What kind of bills are they? They are bills with your own policy, with a plan and without a plan that literally crushs the people and creates conditions to restrain and raise the profits of capital. If you want me to tell you any clues. Do you do that or not? You're doing it. And the moment you do all of this, what do you say? I tell you, Minister, in the sense of government. "We" you say "we have the right to break you, to pass our politics, and you shut the fuck up. You have no right to speak." That's politics. "We are using", that is, "the pretext of pandemic and we are sweeping through all the changes that have been planned and you who want to react, you have no right to speak." That's politics. And I translate it with very simple words. Is it or isn't it? Answer us. Have you stopped anything all this time? You have passed priests, who say: bills on demonstrations taken to us in 1975 and 1976, anti-terror measures. You're preparing a diner. You're about to not pay overtime. You're crushing the world of work. And what are you telling us? You're the mask. But the mask doesn't think it's a mask for health care. You think it's a murmur. Don't talk. So the question - and we ask it about those who are listening to us and see us - is: Does the people have the right in these circumstances, respecting first of all the health measures - as far as they can - to protest? Yes or no? Does he have the right to oppose this government policy in these difficult circumstances even symbolically? Yes or no? Here's the answer. And please answer us. We say the people have a right. History and conquests were not written in obedience to the inhuman and anti-virtual laws. They were written with collision and indiscipline. And we say indiscipline, taking all of this into account. I'll tell you later. So, you're going to pass all the laws and prevent the unions, mass organizations, trade unions, students, students from protesting? Have you broken the world as a whole and inside the coronary and told him "do not speak"? So what we've always said is not new. It's just new conditions to some extent. There is no government, but no government since 1974 has been accompanying anti-grassroots and barbaric politics with violence. I don't want to repeat it, I told the bill about the protests and everything else. Mr. Chrysochoidis is away too, but it's okay, he'll get a second delivery. One was in 1999. Where is the PASOK Parliamentary Representative to tell us? He was in government then. He threw us three and a half tons of chemicals. What did we ask for? We have asked for a demonstration to be held incarcerated by protesting against Yugoslavia's massacre on Clinton. The answer was 'the Americans die'. I said it last time, and he admitted it. The answer was three and a half tons of chemicals. In fact, half of them were gone, as we learned later. So what other governments? SYRIZA? Truman. Other demonstrations. Retired PASOK formerly retired, New Democracy. This is where old men got beaten, asproblems. It's the same now. Not to that extent. Hypocrisy second. Prohibition of concentrations of more than three persons for the purpose of non-transmission of the coronary. That was the decision, wasn't it? Yes, sir. So we tell you very simply and answer. Why did you really think about the coronary, not the cracking and blowing of the resistance of workers and the people, did you not say 'the trade unions are allowed to be symbolic'? Why didn't you do that? Check if they don't follow the measures. Because that's exactly what it proves. We have made this proposal. To become political symbolic events, with strict respect for health measures. And we didn't, gentlemen of the government. We put your glasses on. Do you hear them, Mr. Buga? We put your glasses on. We showed you the Day Day that the communists and the labor movement keeps health measures better than your government murders dozens of people every day with omissions and its policy. It can also do the Mayorship and other events and strictly observe the health measures. Didn't you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u180	We congratulated you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u181	You congratulated us and smacked us in the chemicals after. So why didn't you make that decision? Because you don't care about dissemination, and I'll tell you why you don't care. So stop talking about health measures. The workers' movement and the Communist Party of Greece have shown you that it applies first of all to all health care, because it cares about the lives of the workers and the people, but it is not subject to it, it does not afflict this policy that breaks the rights of the people. Questions to answer to the closure if Mr Chrysohoidis comes. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] In the means of transport, did you check anything? Is the three-person ban? Did you ever go to the subway that's like sardines, which is thirteen minutes late, to run a check? Why didn't you force the subway, the company, to thicken the routes? Why so long? So he wouldn't miss a few million? What do you think? It would be 2 instead of 3. Why didn't you do that? Is the government's criminal responsibility or not? Two. Why didn't you get two and a half thousand buses, if I'm not mistaken, to boost transport? They asked the buses to pay them and the costs. Third. Tell us here and give us evidence. How many checks did you carry workers and specifically to Thessaloniki, in the industrial zone that was on each other? None. How many checks did you do in workplaces? Give us evidence. This is also about the government as a whole. How many factories, how many industries in how many large computer and so forth did the government check to see if the measures are complied with? No one. And you have the courage to talk about health protocols and to blame us? Who are you really blaming? The workers? So tell us even today how many checks you have done to employers, where there is terrorism everywhere. The other one doesn't dare say he's got symptoms and they tell him they're gonna fire him. Do you know how many nominal examples have been denounced by trade unions for businesses? Tell us which one you went to. Why don't you go? Because they're your bosses. They are the ones you serve. Because the coroner isn't classic. He is paid by the working class and by the folk for the majority. You're defending clinical chiefs and all those who've been terrified all this time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me time from my dentistry as well. You say we have war with an invisible enemy. Let's agree. When you're at war, what are you doing? You're making cheques. Why don't you attack the private sector? No compensation. Not what SYRIZA says, and I don't know if people call it. Why would you compensate them? When you get the cars in the world during the raid, do you compensate them? Oh, no. Why? Instead, you feed them on top. They've been sanctified. Thirty million collectors a month, with 10% to put, see how much they come out. Three million profits. And Georgiadis comes now and says "You know, with the tests to increase the wall", from 40 to 60 and from 10 to 30. Why? He got poor - what you say - the Balkan center. Poverty, great. They've been treasured. Instead of telling them publicly and for free, people die and you don't oversee the ITH. Why? Why? And you're talking about war? You're at war. But in war, some win, as before, and some pay it and give their lives. Thirdly, hypocrisy and self-determination about the events of the Polytechnic. Mr Chrysochide said some. You gave up six thousand police officers - mercy - painless, who didn't wear any masks, by the way, and we were nervous ten, fourteen days if we stuck a coronary or not, because they treated us well. What else did you do? You proceeded to hit the gathering, I'm talking about the JRC when it was leaving. Take the videos and watch them. When she came back to leave, you hit her. Violence was used. Leave it now. We didn't go to the coroner to report to us, we don't get used to playing with them, we have political dignity, and we face them politically. And he told us now how much evidence he had, how many chemicals you threw, etc. It's better now. But throw at the KKE Secretary's feet chemically to me afterwards, as well as to the whole world while he was leaving? What's that? What does it look like after all? Not to mention the transfer. Here I'll tell you something about everyone. Two worlds seemed like it. Get the video when the cops attacked. It was the moment that the gathering made its symbolism and retreated. You, with barbarism, with the clubs, with the bones and all with which we were stumbled - those who were stumbling us, even though that doesn't matter, because we're not something special, you say it and, therefore, pay it now - you've been hit by everyone you've found. Not all cops. Special sections and sections inside the departments. May I say, which ones are these parts? You know them very well. Whoever was running away was pissing him off. What were they supposed to do? We have a dignity too. About SYRIZA's "Aida", ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Nice machine you bought, amazing! It's yours. Where would you use it? Would you turn out the fires? Of course not. There it is. She was fine. A business, like it was happening, and I don't know what. This is your world, the barbaric. Our man went down into the cloud of chemicals, applauding and shouting slogans. Why? That's our difference. Because this world that was there, and too much else, has the courage, the humanity to fight for another society, which the son will not have to beat the father and brother, like the police forces of repression. And again, not all of them. Because we're fighting for another society. We're not afraid of you, you know that. We're not afraid of you or we're going to bend your head. The wood always has two ends, you know it. If the people take it, then you'll leave night and I don't know if you'll be able to get there and if your helicopters and cars arrive. You know, the same thing happened in Gregoriopoulou - I'm going to get a little off the narrow policy - in all the history of humanity there has always been respect for the dead. Don't go to Achilles and Hector. I'll go ahead and then. But what happened this time was that you broke your own decision. Three went from the CNN, three went from the student organizations to put a flower in the murder of a 15-year-old child, who eventually ate a bullet. It was a cold murder and you saw what it triggered. That's not even what you respected, in a vulgarity, in a provocative way. Who do you think you are? Who do you think you are when three young people go to put a bouquet of flowers and bandines, like they have in front of them the ISIS Special Mission section. That's how you teach them. Tolerance leads to this. Is that possible? How do you really feel about the matador taking the bouquet and fleeing on the other? Well, you don't respect anything? What kind of people are you making? So, we tell you, to close this, because he monopolized everything, whatever measures you take, no matter how suppression you use, no matter how much you succumb to some - I would say no fascist, I would say something worse, although there is no such thing as the pressures of Bogdan and all those bought in the channels from morning to night - you are wrong. And your world told us good, New Democracy and, of course, all the other space. You've got delusional. You've ridden the reed. But you know the reed breaks. You don't know what's going on with the world. It's boiling. It boils from your policy and all this climate. I live in Exarchia, Hippocrates, and Callidromi. Guys, fourteen and fifteen years old, where only a thing on them was the cell phone sticking them up there like they're war criminals with hands on the wall? What's this? Is that the police? What do you think these kids are gonna do tomorrow? I wish they took the right path and didn't take the road of stone and molotov. You create them. I'm not saying it's everyone, I'm saying again. Big part, not just disagrees. Someone said how many people apply for, because they want to leave, and you don't leave them. They're disgusting too. So I'm saying get all set up. Whatever you do, we're telling you we'll be in the front line, with all the consequences. I should also like to say something about Mr Chrysochide who reminded us of the study years: 'Dura lex,sed lex', 'hard law, but law', unfair law, but it is law and we will implement it. If humanity did this in history, it would still be in caves. There would be slaves, slaves and bosses, there would be everything there were. The unfair laws give the people the right not to apply them and to strive to overthrow them. So the law was founded for you lawyers. I don't want to go any further. The law was first conquered, in practice, through indiscipline, through tough struggles and then institutionalised what was institutionalised in the civil system, I mean, for democratic freedoms. Finally, and I thank you very much, Mr President, I will say nothing about the penitentiary, except that we need to discuss the direction of the penitentiary? What is the direction of the penitentiary? It's called a penitentiary, not a repressive one, not a punishment. The punishment's in court. From that point on, you have to do everything you can to people - not all of them - so that you can change them and integrate them into society. That's why there are two ways. It's education and work, beyond the rest. You go in the other direction. Suppression, violence, cutting off licenses. All organisations working there are not JVs. All those involved, such as sociologists, etc., say licenses help. What are you guys doing? You're creating other conditions. Same as the agricultural prisons. I wish you had more to make people work. I wish you had training programs of another kind. In exile, the communists taught everyone - and they were not the convicts - political economy, history, everything! So what do you think? The Greek Solution also comes out and says death to everyone! It is easy to say that, but in practice it is a barbarity. As for the police, you know - and you know it personally and I say it positive - we almost every week submit requests from the police. Because they, too, are the victims of this policy and you are sending them to beat those who support them. Not everyone, because there are political decisions. Not that they have no responsibilities. You have responsibilities too, which are not clear what is going on inside, and I tell you about incidents that we are living through. We are not at the tower, nor are we expecting the reports of this platoon or of that of another. If you hear what's going on! I've been through this sometimes. What role does the police have? To hit the crime. To hit it, she needs education, she needs equipment, she needs some good earnings to be able to live, because you know what happens next to the networks. So it's a question of direction. Who's the enemy? The people, the trade unions, the ones who go down to the protests? Oh, no. But this is how they are disciplined, and this is mainly logical within the urban state. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u182	Yes, you are. Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Good evening from me. Happy birthday to those who celebrate today, Ms. Karamanlis, Ms. Evthymios. It's a big celebration. I give the floor quickly to Mr. Lappa from Karditsa and SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to highlight four outlines. We've been talking to the committees too. Firstly, the attempted transfer of the penitentiary policy and the anti-crime from the Ministry of Justice to the WP was done without passing through the House, with the choice of a presidential decree, without any substantial consideration and participation of all the factors directly or indirectly interacting with the Penitentiary system, but with a Presidential Decree on the next day of the elections, on 8-7-2019, without any participation, no opinion, no study, no thorough support and documentation from any scientific body. The same is happening now with the bill. Look, there is a bill on such a area of the rights of detainees and does not have the minimum justification and documentation on scientific knowledge. I have called on the Minister in committee, and I repeat it now, let the government bring us not a body, not a college, not a university school, not one of the bodies that came to committee, but a scientist, a lawyer, a psychologist, a psychiatrist or a sociologist - a numerical one - in that country that is ministering scientific knowledge, which is in favour of Article 1(4) for permits and the issue of rural prisons. If he does, we will mitigate our criticism. I know there isn't at least in universities and society, lawyers and lawyers all over the country. I have heard Mr Buga, Mrs Makre, Mr President-in-Office obsessedly say 'unlike us and opposition to SYRIZA'. But you don't have SYRIZA across the street. You have all the bodies, all the bodies in charge, the entire House, except your party, and you say that against SYRIZA. You still have the maniac pursuit of SYRIZA. You think any voice reacts to the parliament that it comes from SYRIZA. So, SYRIZA's too big and you're afraid, gentlemen! You're shaking SYRIZA. This is your obsession. In any case, obsessions and others are the responsibility of other sciences. We are looking at the political and legal science we are ministering to. As a legal person, for so many years, I have known the conditions in detention stores, Mr President, there is no store that I have not been to the thirty-nine years in which I am serving criminal science. However, since January 2015 I am also in the Sanctions Committee in the House, and I would like the relevant Ministry, at least, which brings up a bill of this kind to some changes - will we then tell you about the changes, which are penalising and unacceptable in all respects - to study the proposals that the majority of the New Democracy have written in the last report a few months ago, which says we do not want detention, but reintegration and penitentiary? We do not want punishment, we do not want tension in prison, we do not want tightening, the New Democracy Members say in their report. Do you write it in the oldest shoes? What are you finally taking into account to introduce this draft law? You do not take into account science, you do not take into account the relevant bodies, Citizens' Attorney, Federation of Penitentiary Officers, Human Rights, a National Committee on Human Rights, a State Adviser to your Ministry, the lawyers, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the Association of Prosecutors. So what do you take into account? The audience of which you want to pet ears of the extreme right-hand type to justify your legislative initiative? So the transfer of penitentiary policy is a unique phenomenon in Europe too. The only country that has done so is Hungary and Greece, and second. For the second time, you are now coming to make an intervention in the Penitentiary Code and, unfortunately, you are doing so in the same way. I am sorry that the country - not the government - will be critical and audited by supervisory bodies at European and international level. Because we are talking in plenary and the Minutes are reflected, not to come, gentlemen of the New Democracy, months or a year to tell us that we were not telling you. The country will be despised many times. Because the words of the Greek President of the European Court of Justice, Mr Sisilianos, are still in my ears three times in 2017, 2019 and 2020 in the Committees and in Parliament's plenary, which said what we should do at the penitentiary and criminal level. What did the Minister say? That there are eighteen cases pending? It's not eighteen. Mr Sicilian in February 2020 said it was hundreds, two hundred forty, if I remember well. They are a country's referral to detention conditions. If we brought the bill that it has drafted and prepared the Legal Council of State, which will give an autonomous, independent, autonomous legal instrument for Article 13 of the ECHR, there would have been an automatic two hundred fifty cases that became our country black sheep. One of this. Secondly - and I end with this - Mr Chrysochidis said that those who build careers in voices should no longer stop shouting. Here I am opening a parable: will you cut us off the public word, Minister? Is that what you mean? Will you dismantle the word, yell at the lawyer or the citizen or any man who feels that a government's decision displeased or irritated or makes him complain? Or do you want us to accept that in Greece in 2021 they can be unjustly, unreasonable and unreasonable lawyers who practice their profession in the context of their responsibilities? Are you turning us before the French Revolution of 1789 at which the first national assembly held in 1789, 88% of the representatives of the French people were legal? You're also legal, Mr. Chrysochoid. Take care of it, you have reason to speak to the law enforcement body. Arrest lawyers? Where are we, and where are we? Thirdly, Mr President - to conclude - the Minister said that one reason why he has been stricter in the issue of licences and in the question of transfer to rural prisons is why the convict did not show any remorse. Minister, you're probably wrong. I don't know if you ever practiced the law, especially criminal law. Remorse is not shown in the context of a sentence. Remuneration shall be carried out and proposed by the defendant in the context of a penalty measure when tried by the court. There's no remorse in the penitentiary. There is only discipline in the judgment and there are no other offences within the prison. No other reason can be evidence of containment, of intensity of strictness or of more prisons. So what you said take it back because it is scientifically unacceptable both for our country and for legal culture. Because conquering the rights of detainees is not a Greek phenomenon and you do not give any rights. Clark Paulanski, the famous American, and Mr. Plearis, who is not a left man, said that the right is something nobody can take you and not just ask for that to give you. And the rights of detainees, the right to prisons and permits cannot be restricted. Let's go now - I'm closing up, Mr President - on this huge subject. Do you know the ridiculousness sometimes comes from what? You want to say something very progressive and the measures you introduce completely break your account of democracy, of modernization, of rationalization, of humanism. Now, while the Minister says that this bill helps the prisoners' rights to a penitentiary, it actually comes down - because it is a abolition - and the right to permits and to move to rural prisons. Can the prisoner be licensed for more than ten years when the law gives him the right to dismiss with 2/5? Is it possible to move to rural prisons one who is more than ten years in prison - who has the right, because everyone has the right - but one of the conditions is to have the 2/5 and even to have a licence, which you are making difficult for? How's he gonna get her permission? When she's going to take her leave of 2/5 over ten years, what permission to take? Since he's lost his right...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u184	Finish, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u185	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is important and I shall end with that phrase. How can the defendant seek permission, when he arrives under the sentence, that the law gives him the right to dismiss? Can these be said by the lips of a minister of democratically elected government? It is also directed at people of law! Are we going insane? I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: I have to say to the chief minister, who has also announced that we lawyers and today fanatically support the Montesquié doctrine: every rigour in any legislative framework that prevents its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr Mitarakis. It will be mentioned in the amendment with a general number of 639 and a special 7.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic debate, as our country abolishes an unacceptable 20-year-old regime, the protection of minors in police stations and detention centres. This is an important reform regulated by Article 41 of the draft law and by Amendment No 639 and number 7, which defines as a competent authority the management of requests for emergency hospitality for unaccompanied minors who are deprived of residence by the Special Secretariat for the Protection of Unaccompanied minors of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum. The regime has so far made strong criticism for our country by international organisations such as the Council of Europe, and unfortunately appeals and sentences. It was a regime that didn't honor us. For the first time in almost twenty years, substantial improvements have now been made in this area and a national strategy has been developed, with the aim of bringing a class to the point of protecting unaccompanied minors. At the same time - and I will stress this - with a ministerial decision, which has already been in place since 2020, there are now procedures for verifying the actual age of unaccompanied minors, so that when we talk about unaccompanied minors, we now have a medical confirmation that we are actually talking about unaccompanied minors. I have listened carefully to the parties' and the bodies' positions at committee meetings in the preparation of the draft law and, in particular, it is good that colleagues have referred to the current regulation, supplemented by this amendment. As a government, we believe it is particularly important in this crucial matter that a common place has been found and I believe that all parties will vote in favour of the provision for the abolition of storage and the Ministry's amendment. Of course, we have heard from the Officerate-General that this provision, although from what you said you will be voting in favour, is an empty letter and it comes - you say - for reasons of impression. In fact, last Friday, SYRIZA issued a statement on this issue in order to obviously mitigate the positive impressions and views of all the actors who were fascinated in favour of the provision. I would have expected SYRIZA not to scratch in the soap bag on this issue, because I would ask, ladies and gentlemen: For four and a half years what have you done to eliminate protective care? Were you keeping the kids in detention? But you kept it. Did you propose an arrangement? Oh, no. Did you ever agree with the co-legislative ministries of your own co-government to put an end to this unacceptable situation? Oh, no. It is therefore annoying to you that this regulation comes then from a more general organization that we have brought as a government to the refugee - immigration. By reducing flows on our islands over the past few months to nearly 99%, with the drastic decrease in accommodation structures, with the very large reduction in outstanding asylum rulings coming into order, which has been a burden on our country since 2015. So, Mr Psychoyer and Mrs Pseudos, that is not the provision. Unfortunately vacant for you, it is your criticism. For the EKRD, incapacitatedness and comitology we have discussed them many times in May, in the resolution of No4686, but also in the questions of parliamentary control. As far as the proposed amendment regulation is concerned, the Special Secretariat from the beginning of 2020 has taken the initiative to drastically reduce the number of minors detained in protective storage in police facilities. Three hundred and thirty-three unaccompanied minors were recorded at the end of March 2020 under protective custody. Already since 14 November, the figure has been zero. In November we managed to transfer all children - a hundred and seventy children - who were then in police stations to temporary hospitality structures, special structures suitable for this purpose. Furthermore, in cooperation with the UN High Commissioner, we are working on a national mechanism to identify, identify and refer unaccompanied minors, especially those who enter the land borders of the country, because these are easier preys on all kinds of farms and they are usually the ones who came to police for protection. In the reception and identification centres that are already set up in Samos, Kos and Leros - and will be created in 2021 in Lesvos and Chios - a safezone has already been provided, protected for unaccompanied minors with the necessary support. It is worth noting that we have already increased the capacity of long-term accommodation places by 40%, which will reach 85% in the coming months, and we are already in place and implementing this new mechanism, because we have increased the long-term accommodation positions. So the abolition of detention is not just a political option. It is a result of a systematic work done by the competent Special Secretariat, Ms. Lovedakis, along with the Secretary-General, Mr. Logotis. They have created the necessary conditions and we also create in the new reception and identification centres so that the problem does not arise again. We are implementing, at the same time, the voluntary relocation programme for unaccompanied minors from Greece to other states with European Commission funding, with the support of international and European organisations. Already five and twenty minors have left this year and are waiting to leave, to travel another thousand thirty-six until April 2021. Finally, we vertically reduced the number of unaccompanied people in the CCTs. In March there were a thousand seven hundred fifty two. They've already been transferred to the mainland. Four hundred and eleven children were transferred after the fire in Moria, and today we only have the arrivals of the last two months, which are also being placed in hostels in the inland. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore abolishing the protectionist legislative care while at the same time establishing the new national mechanism for the identification, referral and emergency hospitality of unaccompanied minors. We call on all the political forces to vote in favour of Article 41 and Amendment by general Articles 639 and number 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr Mitarakis, and respect for the time. Of the few ministers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I would like the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u190	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u191	For a minute, Mr President, on the amendment and what Mr Matetarakis said. First of all, I'd like to land you, Mr. Metarakis. Do not have fruitfruits hope that you will get votes on what you are bringing in this House, on the issues you are dealing with. Also, remove the protective care of unaccompanied minors and at the same time anticipate suitable accommodation structures once again. I would like to ask you, since you are here and have referred to these issues in general, if you have closed down any NGOs lately, because you said three at the beginning. You've advertised them a lot. You came here with a lot of air last time. You said how happy you were to close three NGOs. Did you do anything else? Let me tell you, Mr. Mitarakis, that we had in a week - because I think other elements have you or us, I don't know - over 100% increase. In other words, from November 23, to November 29, seventy - seven people had arrived this week, and in the week from November 30, to December 6, fifty - four came. So we have had an increase of over 100% and this is apart from what is happening at the land borders, which you know very well what is happening at the land borders! It's not the time to develop it now. Also - you know - we are not talking about me or about you, we are talking about the world too, but it is good to be informed, and that is why I shall submit them to Parliament's minutes. It is the 4th Management of the Health Region of Macedonia - Thrace, the Hospital of Hippocrates - I have it in my hands - which is the answer to an official question from the Greek Solution. In two hospitals in Thessaloniki, Mr Mitaraki, only in one year, July 2019-July 2020, we - if you are concerned, we would like your comment, we would like to quote the details - eighty eighty-sixteen births of children who illegally entered our country. Who paid for these births? Like also Greeks, of course, are also charged with the benefits of all those who have discovered here in Greece the "Promised Earth". It is evidence that we have in our hands are officially answering our questions, our parliamentary work, and I would like to present them and if you have any comments on them, I would like to hear them. Just sounding real evidence. You went up to Stepma and said "What is good!" Okay, maybe we have a different view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u194	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, what can I tell you? I came here a while ago and I was written and I was told 'no, you can't, you'll talk later'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u196	I have been noted that you have asked to speak after Mr Kalamatiano, which is why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u197	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u198	So I see it, come see it, I'm not lying to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, can I take the floor for a moment to answer Mr Heta?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u200	Of course, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Heta, I have the habit of always answering with evidence, and I don't know which statistic you have in recent days. I can tell you that in the last 15 minutes no one has entered. You know, the choice of time is not serious when you do it in a short time. Let me tell you in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u202	Fifteen days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u203	Last year, seventy - four thousand entered our country. This year, under fifteen thousand have entered. The decrease is 80%. Two-thirds is the first quarter. It was before our country upgraded border protection. Over the past few months on our islands: eighty people entered in October, last year eight thousand seven hundred forty - nine. In November, ninety - two had entered last year, eight thousand four hundred thirty - nine. This month, five thousand nine hundred forty-six had entered last year, so far a hundred forty-three, a 98% reduction has been introduced. Our country resolutely guards its borders, is faced with strict but justice in the asylum process, provides international protection where international rules require, but we are no longer the gateway to Europe and the increase in migration populations in Greece, when you see the statistics, did not occur in 2020. It came into the period 2015-2019, according to the official data. So your criticism is probably in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u204	I've presented evidence, I didn't make any criticisms.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Minister. Now we are going to Mr. Athanasios Side of the New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor for seven whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u206	Good evening. Thank you very much. As the debate on one point, ladies and gentlemen, has been moved to the general policy of the government on policing, we have to make it clear here: in our election programme one of the main pillars we have said and for which we have been elected by the Greek people is the instability of the sense of security. We were the ones who said that we would structure such conditions that in the problem areas - such areas are also the centre of Athens in which I am elected - there would be a sense of security for the citizen with greater policing and there would be no areas that would be areas - ghettos, crime or criminal acts under the cloak of ideological convictions. So what the government's political leadership is doing is to implement the programme for which we have taken confidence from the Greek people. I was really surprised at the attack made by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman against the police and particularly at the Special Guard Department, who said a lot - very much - that all these people are untrained and that they have a torque to criminal acts. It has typically mentioned whether the Minister is proud of a series of special guards, who have been judged and convicted. However, Mr Ragus did not say that we are proud of the majority, almost all the special guards, who are daily on the machines of DIAIA and we see them and are the ones on the front line of battle against organised crime. We are proud of the police - special guards in Rendi, in Mr Ragosi's constituency, who were shot at by the Kalshnikovs, and there were people who are now dead. It's an insult to the dead cops to get individual cases of people and try all those who give their lives to have security to put them in a sack. We are now coming to the provisions of the bill. The permits that also refer to rural prisons, and that is where we are dealing with issues where the New Democracy was clear about what it legislates. Because at the moment, as I mentioned earlier, unfortunately there has been the lawfulness of the SYRIZA government in favour of crimes based on criminals. That was the reality. It may have had to cover perhaps an ideological approach that develops that penalties should be lower. My friend Mr. Lappas, the chosen lawmaker, actually developed the theory, but we didn't just have that level. We had photographic provisions from the previous government in order to benefit certain people and these people have a name. He has legislated in favour of Mr Xeros with the change of 100 A of the Criminal Code, so that he can enter rules and ask for his sentence to be issued at home, because this procedure was not provided for in the case of Mr Xeros. Legislation in favour of Mr. Koufantina. The previous Minister of Justice, Mr Athanasios, who was President, had amended the permit regime with Mr.4274/2014 with two main factors: firstly, that for a number of offences - including terrorism - you should have completed up to two years before you were released. So you should actually get permission, if it was sixteen years, fourteen, or if it was twenty, eighteen, or twenty-five, if it were then as the regime applied to the multiple symposia. At the same time, that anyone who was kept in Type III prisons, who were basically criminals related to terrorism, did not even have that possibility. They only received licences under conditions, semi-free licences, as they were called. So this was suddenly changed with L.4322/2015 by Mr. Parafontopoulos, it was one of the first changes that took place and was the regime that gave Koufontina the opportunity to apply for permission. This - I'm sorry - was photographic legacy - photographic legacy! - go to get permission for a man who has been sentenced for multiple acts of terrorism, while the will of the government that had previously legislated was this permission to be given - when? - in time just before the release. I will agree with many of the things that have been said. Indeed, the difference between the man who is detained in prisons by the man who is free is that he lacks his freedom, but also with regard to the regime under which licences will be granted - which is the right of the detainees - the state has a sovereign right to set the terms and conditions. Within these terms and conditions, the current government is increasing its time of creation in serious crime. In life imprisonment it makes it twelve out of eight, which had returned to SYRIZA. And that makes sense, that permits have a useful use for the preparation of human beings when they enter full freedom. So the logic is to be in such a time as man is approaching to being released, so that he can have the permission in terms and conditions. There is also a number of other quality criteria, which we often underestimate. The quality criteria are that the licence should not be misused, because the legislator himself - and rightly so - wants the right to leave to have people who are really conscious of why they are in prison, who have understood the consequences of the acts they have taken and are at the stage of dismissal and will be able to obtain their permission. That is why, quite rightly, it is possible to obtain licences on better terms. So as far as the permit regime is concerned, I would agree on a point as legal that is often problematic in many high-level numbers, that we are, for example, reaching for the six days at 3/5, which coincides with the condition of the condition of dismissal. In fact, for one case it is enough to be able to obtain a licence in fact when it has completed the period of dismissal under conditions. In all other cases, however, the right thing to do, in assessing the context of a sentence accepted by the prisoner, is to have the permits as close as possible to his freedom regime in order to be able to prepare and reintegrate into the society as a whole. We are now coming and saying that yes, there are a number of tough and heinous offences, and these are mainly life-long imprisonment-related crimes, where the framework for permits should be longer than we have in the past. That is the criticism that is being made, which I do not understand, as far as rural prisons are concerned. Do you want to tell me that there is no right for the state to see what world is going to go to these favorable prisons, which are rural and that we do not want people who have been convicted of terrorism to go to the rural prisons? I'm sorry, but this is a conscious New Democracy policy that implemented and in 2012-2015, which made the 'High Security-Type III' prisons that were invaded by people who were convicted of terrorism and is right to return now. For there is a series of offences for which the person who has been sentenced is not entitled. However, it cannot be transferred to prisons that have a much lower level of security when convicted of criminal offences. You legislated again so that Mr. Koufantinas could be in the rural prisons. We, not only for Mr Koufantina, but for every man who has been convicted of such crimes of terrorism, we do not want to be in rural prisons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since many times they invoke the rights of detainees, you should be aware that in many cases of organised crime and many instances of people who have been sentenced for very serious offences, they are the same who oppress the rights of other detainees who have been inside. Without having to say names - and I address the experience of lawmakers here - we know that in prison people of hard organised crime are actually the ones imposed on people who have much smaller penalties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u207	Please complete, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u208	I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. That is why there is the logic of high security - type III prisons, that these people had to be removed and located in another place, so that the prisoners could have the rights. With all these considerations, therefore, I would like to say that the changes are changes in the absolute context that New Democracy had announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Pleari. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglou, has the floor. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, pluralism and pluralism are part of democracy. That is why unregulated regimes, such as dictatorships, are the first to be hit by informing citizens, pluralism and pluralism. Of course, both in democratic regimes and in line with the ideological position of the governments and the practices that follow, we have attempts to control information and media. We have also noticed in our country that in important periods there has been an attempt to control the means. Today, the New Democracy Government is pursuing a policy of suffocating the instruments in order to monitor them at a controlled rate of funding, with selective legislative initiatives and with a number of other interventions. It is obvious that it makes it more effective than SYRIZA tried the previous time with significant failures. The report by the National Broadcasting Council confirms our complaints and reveals the full extent of the restriction of political pluralism and pluralism. Political pluralism has been established. 90% is the figure which the PSE report itself has drawn up. Yesterday's strike concerns essentially only one of the dozens of issues that the government has chosen to implement its policy. These are the change of industrial relations, the deterioration of the work and the role of journalists in media. But the bill that is being promoted has too many 'grey' and 'black' provisions. The bill that is even being promoted to integrate the European directive serves in a different way to the one that the European Union has adopted this directive. That's something we'll see in the next space. However, what I must stress today is that the government has a permanent tactic at the expense of regional media, both paper and electronic and television stations. There is no 30% of advertising expenditure that is intended to be allocated to regional instruments. In addition, there is no labour subsidy for regional instruments, a necessary act for both television stations and other media, such as the printed and electronic press, which would ensure that they are supported through work and not entirely through other types of funding. Regional instruments do not exist on the government's map. She thinks if she's doing well with the central only, she's doing her job, which is shameful. There is overtaxation, but only for regional instruments. Because in other means there are a number of other facilities. To clarify things, the role of instruments, both central and regional, is important. Both the press and the electronic press and the television media have their own value and this value cannot be weakened or strangled by government decisions. The funding was not available without criteria, but a bill of purpose also comes. We will deal with it clearly and with a strong role, because we are right on our part. The Change Movement with its responsible attitude in general, and especially during the pandemic period, has supported the scientific suggestions and government decisions based on them, controls and judges the government choices, judges and reveals the mistakes or intentions, presents and suggests solutions to both the health crisis and its consequences, economic and social. In this way, we are sometimes applauded by the rest of the Opposition, sometimes the government praises us, but neither are we, nor do we, since we are applauded for the political position of everyone. What we see, however, is that the vast majority of citizens agree and express themselves with our views, which certainly do not include extreme positions, which certainly include what society needs outside and beyond purposes. In the light of this, we are also placed today in the bill of the Ministry of Civil Protection. We would remind you that in addition to the ongoing parliamentary interventions, the Change Movement has tabled a full proposal unanimously adopted by the Special Standing Committee on Penitentiary Systems and Other Structures for Prisoners, which should be a guide to the Government and its decisions. It is, of course, necessary to update it on the basis of the juncture of the pandemic, but while the World Health Organisation points out that prisons and other detention authorities must ensure as much as possible the human rights of those in detention, that people are not - and should not - detached from the outside world and, most importantly, that they must have access to information, adequate health care, especially at this time, conditions in our country's penitentiaries are inextricably and unacceptable. The government insists on its refusal to protect health and safety in prisons both prisoners and employees and workers. No measures are taken to deal with segregation in prisons and, at the same time, at a pandemic period where, unfortunately, the coronary has entered for good, the risk is increasing. According to data, for example, in the Diabetes a hundred and twenty prisoners and fifteen of the staff members have been affected, in Larissa more than sixty, in Eleanon Thebes women are concerned. After the last sad developments with the third coronary detainee death, but also the death of an official of the external guard, we would expect at least a change of attitude today. Coping with aggregation in prisons is an urgent matter. Apart from improving conditions within prisons as far as possible, immediate decongestion decisions are needed, as described in the amendment tabled by the Change Movement. The prisoners in Greek prisons on December 1st were eleven thousand four hundred and fifty nine, surpassing about three hundred people from the upper limit of the prison tonnage of about ten thousand. In twenty-three of the country's thirty-six prisons, the ceiling is exceeded, and some cases are tragic. I only mention a few elements. At the New Volos Special Store, we have 230% overpopulation, at the Ioannina Shop 152%, in Corfu 157%, in Kos 198%, in Nafplio 151%, in Patras 146%, in Tripoli 211% and in Chalkida 175%. These are tragic numbers. We had to be shocked, especially during this period. For these circumstances, our country has more generally been convicted, because there really is evidence of the number of beds, the three-storey layout, three prisoners in cells not more than 8-10 square meters. They are conditions which we have been condemned to the European Court of Justice. In 2014, there is a decision. The Change Movement has repeatedly raised all the issues that arouses the penitentiary system, with a series of parliamentary interventions, as I said. Apart from the amendment that I have referred to and which you must accept or substantiate your refusal, a package of measures needs to be taken that will evolve in the next few months, but in the opposite direction to what your bill proposes. The Ministry's explanatory statement itself accepts that the bill is of a fragmentary nature and concerns a series of provisions on the resolution of issues being negotiated. We add that it is impregnated with conservative ideologies and political positions which do not promote penitentiary, health and safety conditions for prisoners and workers, nor strengthen the prospect of social reintegration. The amendments to the bill, in particular, aim to limit the licenses of detainees and not to shield them or correct them. Aside from the right of the prisoner, the license can work positively, both in the direction of prison and in the direction of social reintegration. None of this seems to concern the bill, which simply does without a scientific study and documentation to be limited, with analyses such as the ones we have heard before, to reduce the transfer of prisoners to rural prisons, where there is no overpopulation and which, moreover, can function with another model. I will also take time from my remarks, Mr President. Both the licenses of the detainees and the rural prisons are institutions that are moving towards democratisation and humanisation of the penitentiary system and are consistent with the main objectives that a modern democracy must have for all citizens who violate the laws. As a matter of urgency, not revenge. We must now strengthen the institutions of reintegration and education, the institutions of training in prisons, such as schools of second chance, libraries, training workshops, production and creation workshops, employment workshops. Minister, reintroduce the possibility of social work with the necessary corrections, which you have done away with, and together with other alternative ways of creating penalties, particularly in cases where we do not have serious offences. Priority for social reintegration must be given once again, as social exclusion leads to the repeated invasion on the part of the detainees. A positive one, in principle, is the extension of the "REANOOS" body to all towns where there are prisons, but it is not enough. "RANOVOS" has shown that it can support a broader design, if it exists and if it is given the support. However, it needs to be linked to the social cooperatives of integration, the communautaires, which can do a serious job. The ‘New Horizontals’ communiqué, which is the integration of detainees, has demonstrated in the previous period that it can make a decisive contribution to reintegration. Unfortunately, however, both the previous government and yours removed employment programmes and cut it off funding, such as the Green Fund. These are issues which must not go through 'prices' or be dealt with under other criteria, except on the basis of the basic criterion of social reintegration. In addition, your RESEARCH has proposed concrete measures for disabled prisoners and we owe it as a parliament to integrate them into the regulations and decisions. It is assumed that this body, as an official recognised social partner of the Greek state, is making serious interventions and presents proposals after a study. The Auxiliary Insurance and Welfare Fund is renamed and essentially comes to be in line with the law in force from the previous period and the disfellowshipment of the branch of subsidiary insurance that was incorporated into the Single Insurance Fund and the e-ECA, after all. There is one point about representation at the Greek Council. Clearly, everyone must be represented, but there should also be a proportional representation. This must be ensured. In this sense, we suggest that you see the proposals put forward - to review them - by policemen, firefighters, to increase their representation in the Council in a proportionate manner. In conclusion, we would like to remind you that the Change Movement has recently tabled an amendment to include, together with the health workers and the profession of police officer, prisoner - penitentiary officer and others in heavy and unhealthy work. It's an act that will deliver justice. Because you know that this process started in 2010 with the integration of the respective private-sector skills into heavy and unhealthy, but the effort for the public sector remained in the air. There must finally be that equality. In addition, we proposed that the Christmas gift for all the people in the first line be a reward for their offer, which has to do with their contribution to the pandemic. One point that has recently been proposed relates to the examination by you and the suggestion to the Ministry of Finance for all the people in the first line of the Ministry of Civil Protection, police officers, firefighters, penitentiaries and all those who are helping this difficult period, to exclude, as has been done for other categories, from the imposition of a special solidarity contribution. We don't give them any more. At least we don't take them from their posture. Finally, I would like to say a word personally about Mr Chrysochide and Mr Ragosi, who, through an exchange of views, have tried to reduce the political elements governing each option. Former partners, your good times and your good performance - and one and the other - in the past, in another political institution, cannot today be an alibi, either for government failures and wrong choices or for the unreliable and artistic opposition that you are supporting. The Change Movement is here with its positions, its proposals, the clear reason, just to be useful in society, the state, the people who are experiencing the difficult and, of course, to slowly open up, in the hope of dealing with this pandemic, the way to build better days for people and especially young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Dionysius Kalamatianos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. The bill we are debating is the result of the current government's policy of authoritarianism, the restriction of rights, the indifference to the dignified living of people and the generalised repression it applies. The bill is introduced at a time when pandemic peaks, where health and life protection is at the heart of it. We would therefore expect the bill to be seen in the light of humanism and the prison area. The World Health Organization, as well as the EGE, admit that the coronary in the enclosed areas is very easily transmitted and recommends the removal of detainees inside prisons. What did the government do? Absolutely nothing. We currently have hundreds of cases in detention stores and, unfortunately, victims of prisoners and external guards. In Europe, because of the pandemic, all the countries except our own and Sweden have reduced the number of detainees and have taken protective measures for people. For this reason, with an amendment we have tabled, we propose that all the staff of the Greek Police, the employees of detention centres and prisoners, whether in police detentions or penitentiaries, should be subjected free of charge to diagnostic tests at regular intervals. At least, since you do not take any disarmament measures, you should accept the amendment and act as a precautionary measure for greater and better traceability of the virus and of cases. But it seems that you don't even care. With the provisions you enter, you drive the detention stores in the completely opposite direction, congested, suffocated. The general philosophy of the bill reflects your perception of detention shops, a concept of purely punishment, revenge and no penitentiary. The measures and institutions that can lead to socialisation and penalisation are not evolving, you do not improve them, but you are limiting them instead. The bill completely exalts humanity from its provisions. It does not streamline and improve the provisions that are being amended. On the contrary, it restricts and reaches the abolition for some of the institutions that help to reintegration. There can be no reintegration without a system of human and rational licensing and transfer to rural prisons. Rural prisons are an area that could have been much more exploited by the Greek state in the direction of even strengthening the productivity of our country. In the present critical phase, however, they could be exploited to decongested closed-type detention stores. Instead of supporting psychosocial activities and other programmes in detention stores, education, vocational training, infrastructure and activities in rural prisons, you are shrunning them. The right to leave, the institution of the licence is part of a rational socialization of the prisoner, the logic of penalisation and the prospect of reintegration. Permissions are right. It is an institution that has been working successfully for decades. The rates of compliance with the terms of the permit from prisoners are particularly high and, of course, demonstrate that the licence contributes to the socialisation of the prisoner and to the maintenance of his contacts and ties with the family and society as a whole. You, in fact, exclude a large number of detainees from being licensed under arbitrary criteria and excessive strictness. You know that you are creating preconditions for subconflicting detention stores at this extremely dangerous juncture. Nevertheless, you insist that you vote on these provisions, which have deplored all the bodies involved in prison. If you really wanted to help, you should buy beds to sleep the children in the juvenile prisons on Paul. There the kids sleep on the floor, as the school manager denounces. I shall continue with reference to two issues. The first issue is the creation by the bill of an unreasonable and unreasonablely oversized General Secretariat of Anti-Criminal Policy. Instead of doing everything in order to strengthen the first-line staff in detention stores, complete the recruitments initiated by the SYRIZA government, instead of hiring health personnel for the health facilities of detention stores, which are obviously overrequired in such circumstances, you create a hundred and thirty administrative staff for the General Secretariat of Crime Policy. Thirty of them in fact are ICU. You said, Minister, to the committee that you are caring for the administrative organisation of the General Secretariat. Honestly, do you think that this is what penitentiary policy needs, a hundred and thirty young employees at the General Secretariat and not scientists, but secretaries? Put the cart in front of the horse. Strengthening is needed first and then the rest of the positions of the first line, if necessary. Simple logic needs it, but rather other things are of interest to you and others are your priorities. Secondly, I would like to point out, Minister, and Mr Pleis, to what you said earlier, that we are with the police workers who observe the Constitution and the laws, who apply democratic ideals, who protect citizens, who serve humanity, social peace and social cohesion, who want accountability and condemnation of the illegitimate behaviour of this House and react to the violent, arbitrary, undemocratic behaviour of a minority of their colleagues. We are with these policemen who are denouncing extremist, fascist, nazi behaviors denouncing the memory of a murdered child, denouncing the tolerance, cover-up, justification for extreme practices. It is your duty, Minister, to isolate and dismantle the extreme right-wing enclosures that blow up and paralyse within the police force. To be accountable and punished, of course, by those who are frustrated and outlawed. You mentioned in your speech to the committee that in the governance of SYRIZA there were repressive measures and chemical anti-citizens use in protests. You say this, you who on your own state of sedation forces have been depopulated, "their hands have been dismantled," they say now and are chasing 15-year-old children in cinemas, arresting and holding 14-year-old and 15-year-old children, as happened in the recent pan-educational rally, destroying the asylum of the house and exercising physical violence in director Indarre and in the family Kathy, as happened recently in Sepolis, who father was transferred to the "Evangelism" with a heart attack, in Jannah to students and many other incidents of violence. The truth is that we now have a phenomenon of extreme violence and repression and extreme behaviour that reaches the confrontation of parliamentarians. We have such unprecedented events, and of course it is important that you do not strongly condemn these behaviours, but instead in some cases, before they are investigated, you are prepared to justify them. In fact, you have brought and voted for the anti-constitutional and anti-democratic law limiting the right to a meeting, in an attempt to criminalise social struggles and to generalise repression. I am referring to these facts because we do not forget them and always speak with evidence, contrary to what the Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy claimed. Finally, Mr President, I would like to remind you that the cruelty of the laws does not affect the size of obedience to them. The direction that Greek society needs is completely opposite, quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Couvelas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u214	Good evening to all colleagues from Thessaloniki standing in the second wave of the pandemic. I would like to thank publicly once again all the health staff of our city for the battle it gives. We owe them a lot, and I'm sure we'll all win. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an extremely critical draft law. The country's penitentiary system needs areas and as a fighting lawyer, I would say that we could make even more bold changes. Those who visit prison shops in the country can understand that we need in practice a system that will penalise and not create professional prisoners, especially if anyone has the misfortune of being in prison from an early age. We need a system that respects the prisoner, but also the penalty imposed, and in this direction, will succeed in making the surface of all its beneficial features, proving it and highlighting it as an outrageous, deterrent, reformative and most important supportive, as only with the proper preparation of the prisoner can it be achieved with its normal reintegration into society. So the question arises: does the current system need to be amended? I say yes, since it's out of life itself. This draft law on this is exactly what it comes to contribute and I am optimistic that it will bring significant steps forward. I would like to dwell on the first chapter where issues are dealt with regarding the more effective functioning of services of the General Secretariat of the Anti-Criminal Policy and where provisions of penitentiary law are amended. There's an attempt to avoid aggregation of sick prisoners. It is an issue, which for many years now has been stirring the system to avoid conspiracy of patients in detention stores for treatment with hospitals. Thus, we have a new procedure to introduce the detainees into the treatment shops and provision is made for the provision of care without bureaucratic claws. On this point, Minister, I would like to point out that, despite the clarification given by the State Secretary responsible, it is imperative that we resolve, as quickly as possible, the issue of the recruitment of permanent medical and nursing staff in the penitentiary, even with the provision of additional incentives that will enable them to remain finally, rather than abandon their post. The construction of special sanitary facilities in prisons - steadfast areas - is something that is also necessary in order to provide a way out of the whole country's COVID days. The transfer of the prisoners employs many policemen, who do not have the service. Therefore, the process of transport is crucial to have the changes envisaged. In this way, they become more reliable and safer. Also, the process regarding the Psychiatric and Special Health Center of Korydallos is changing and so the prisoners will only be able to appear there for a concrete and serious reason, in other words, when they need real hospitalization and not be driven there with non-existent diseases, which in the past have also given us real attempts to escape. As a lawyer, but also as a citizen, I am in favour of both the status of permits and the significant supply of agricultural prisons to prisoners' penitentiary. I was amazed to hear from the SYRIZA side - many of my fellow Members - talking about a alleged doctrine of terror and deterrent, about a new penitentiary system of vengeance, which kills the hope of the prisoners, about the status of permits and the functioning of rural prisons. Truly, I wonder, who is the penitentiary or the arrangements and provisions introduced by this draft law? Whose hope kills? So you do not wish, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to be licensed under conditions and rules for those who actually show signs of remorse and intention of substantial reintegration? This suggests the bill. It lays down specific and fair conditions, depending on the sentence imposed and the percentage granted by the prisoner. The aim must also be to reduce the infringements of licences and, indeed, to strengthen this important institution, which I would remind you of how much the recent 'law of Friday', the SYRIZA government, both in the eyes of the citizens and even in the eyes of the detainees, has repudiated. Are you, in other words, defending the dog culture? Whose hope kills, then, this bill? Those who intend to escape? I would remind you that during the SYRIZA governance period - 2015 to 2019 - we had two hundred fourteen licence violations. Do you object to this being stopped? The prisons all want to be a passage to the right reintegration into the social environment and not to centres of transit, where everyone can enter and get out whatever they want. It is therefore the aim of the Community's commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Furthermore, with this current draft law, there is a significant change in the conditions for switching to rural prisons, where, in fact, we all want living conditions to be more humane, with privileges. With privileges, however, for those who deserve them. To enjoy them, that is to say, prisoners who have good behaviour and real disposition for social reintegration rather than being a favourite transfer for someone who, possibly, is intended to escape, are not for those who are detained for serious crimes, not for high-risk prisoners and for those who have been convicted of terrorist cases or who have still violated their licenses. But I insist, Minister, that we should look very seriously at infrastructure, detention areas and living conditions. There are important issues of second-time work in prisons. As far as I can tell, Mr President, the issues that this bill deals with. The psychological support of the prisoners is also important. And the "REANODOPOS" programme, which already operates today, which helps some seven hundred released people, is very important and can become the head of a modern penitentiary reform. Moreover, the College of Booking Shop Inspectors is an important section. Tens of checks have already started to be carried out. They were found in cells, in penitentiary weapons, murderous objects, drugs, cell phones, and everything else one can imagine, namely, that their possession and handling in a detention store is already a serious criminal offence. Finally, I want to dwell on Article 41 concerning unaccompanied minors. The Minister, Mr Metarakis, referred to this earlier. It's an important matter. It regulates the protection, preservation of these children who are deprived of safe or well-known residence, in order to find a safe house for them. I conclude by saying that it is our government's goal that Greece cease to be condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for detention in our prisons. If we want to create a penitentiary system that meets the challenges of our time, we must bear in mind that the person punished by imprisonment is not punished at the same time as with the abolition of his dignity. The opposite is true. He who is in prison temporarily may hope for a better future. That's what we'll try to give him. And in that direction is the draft law, which I invite you to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Couvela. Mr. Biagis has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today's paradox is that we are talking about the Penitentiary Code, the licenses of the prisoners, the establishment of the new addresses, the transfer of officials and the related issues, and perhaps it would be a great opportunity for all of us to make a legislative originality: to vote for all the political parties in the national Parliament to ensure better conditions of detention with strict health protocols in view of the pandemic and not to evade anyone's attention, that prisoners are human beings. We should also be concerned about how to create a more attractive Sanctions Code, with respect, above all, for human rights and how to build a Penal Code of Penalty with penalties, but with opportunities and the possibility of reintegration into society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the analysis of the bill itself, let me, in turn, repeat what the rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mr Kamine, said. It is unacceptable that there should be no explanatory statement to this draft law, which explains the reasons for the necessity at the outset of this draft law, as well as the reasons why the earlier changes were wrong and the current ones are in the right direction. What, perhaps, has not worked properly with the current provisions and on the basis of what scientific data are you currently establishing a more stringent code for licences? It seems, rather, that the New Democracy party is still trapped today in a deep competition with the Officer's opposition party. You could now give a different political signal by submitting an integrated proposal to the Greek Parliament, I would say, the Penitentiary Code, which will be distinguished, but, from a significant degree of progressiveity, it will be adapted to the principles of modern times, it will be compatible and not contrary to the models of modern European countries, which the term'reintegration of detainees' has a central meaning in their penitentiary system. The Government of New Democracy, in an endless competition with the Civic Opposition, likes to simply claim to be better than the previous SYRIZA government, any government of SYRIZA has abused licenses and transfers to rural prisons and that, with the changes today, everything will be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I think the most worrying of all is that you have even circumvented the experts' suggestions. The Citizens' Counsel has assured you at the hearing that more than 95% - 98% - the terms and conditions under which licences are granted are respected. Your own penitentiary officials have indicated in their proposals that the tightening up of the permits is unimportant, that in the existing structures and in the conditions of our prisons the institution - not least - and permits - is essential. If you really would like to make a cut, a reform would proceed to real initiatives with symbolism and not just, for example, the reinstatement of the penitentiary system to the Ministry of Justice and not to the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which you have taken, in the main direction and orientation of the social reintegration of the prisoners, and you would not leave the penitentiary of the prisoners in the hands of a ministry that deep down is geared to repression. Minister, it is very important in my view that we look into and intervene in the daily lives of these people who are incarcerated in detention centres. Like also, it is very important to give these people all those conditions to obtain the supplies the next day that they will be given the second chance and that their incarceration is over, and that they will be able to join society. Minister, allow me to tell you at this point that where there are problems and where society and people are bent on top, the prospects are good and the solutions given are in a progressive direction. For example - let me - in the penitentiary store of Corfu there is and magnifies a second- opportunity school, which, beyond its educational, educational role, has succeeded in its two years of operation as a model of modern Greek communism. It is worth mentioning that for 2016 it was proposed by the Institute of European Education as a unique example of our country's good practice in the European Union regarding the use of three-dimensional printers in detention stores. I would like to stress that this school has been built with the support of local society and operates with love and dedication only of all its human resources, which are nothing more than the teachers, the institutions and the unions that support it. Since its establishment, Minister, it has not taken a euro for the purchase of an A4, nor a euro for the purchase of graphics and operation. And yet this school stands out. So, through this school, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity is for the tenants of Corfu prisons to escape the heated and cold imprisonment and to enter a creative action. It is therefore understood that it is the state's duty to ensure that there is effective support and support for schools in the second opportunity, to provide for the establishment of new schools in prisons and, in particular, in areas where detention facilities are already compressed and crime indicators are recording upward trend. Ladies and gentlemen, reintegration after release is something that concerns us collectively, whether we like it or not, whether we want it or not. Statistics reinforce previous logic, such as the argument that about 80% of type II prisoners return to prisons. But the percentages of all inmates who have been through second-rate schools are much, much smaller. We are therefore called upon to deal with this issue, essentially, in order to really prove our humanitarian character, so that we can all stop this hideous practice that we are now constantly doing, put human souls under the carpet. So we have to keep our second chance schools open, so we shield our society. So let us put aside the provisions on transfers, mergers and others and get to the bottom of it. And the essence is nothing but the quality characteristics that we want to give the lives of those people who are imprisoned in prisons. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again the position of the Change Movement that stricterisation and non-incentives are not a solution to the penitentiary system. And they are not solutions not only in our own country, but in every European, progressive country. We must provide for education, for the reform of the prisoners, for their psychological support, for their compliance. It is not a solution to unilateral violence in whatever form and whether it is it, as is also a question of stricter penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous parliamentary term the Change Movement had presented its own view of a comprehensive reform of the penitentiary system, which was even accepted by a large number of parties during that parliamentary term. I therefore call on you, in closing my position, all to bend over such quality characteristics with such reasonableness, so that we can come to Parliament and discuss the real problems of prisoners, to review the reintegration of detainees in terms of security and rights, and not to severely penalise and curtail the rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Biaghy. And from Corfu, we're going to Evia and Mr. Athanasios Zebble from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall be content to give a few general thoughts on our penitentiary system so that I do not repeat the provisions of the draft law which the rapporteur and my previous colleagues have analysed and fully developed. In January 2019, he saw the light of publicity a shocking video that immortalised the cold-blooded murder of a prisoner in Korydalou Prison. This tragic documentary was an additional proof of the chaos and of the lawlessness of the country's penitentiary, where undisturbed acted mafias as well as organised circuits. Corresponding incidents as well as the record of the homicides are recorded in the Report of the National Occupational Prevention Mechanism and Mistreatment in 2018. To answer the previous speaker, we must point out that all this happened at a time when penitentiary policy was the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. On the contrary, the fact is that during the current period a serious effort has been made to ensure the proper and secure functioning of the penitentiary shops, reduce escapes and improve detention conditions. In this direction, the redefinition of the powers of the Audit and Inspection Body in order to supervise systematically and prevent cases of corruption, violence and infraction. Here it is important to say that security and order in the penitentiary stores reflect the increased responsibility of the state to secure the life, physical integrity and dignity of the detainees. However, some are trying to pass on to the current government the sufferings of years in the area of penitentiary, and this is wrong with the methodical effort that has been made lately. Unfortunately in our country, penitentiary policy over time was an unnecessarily luxury. This situation has deteriorated in the years of the budgetary crisis, such as inappropriate conditions, infrastructure, subsistence and gradual deterioration of detention conditions. These have also denounced prisoners, such as the Chalkida prisoners for the impoverishment and inhumane conditions they are experiencing. Corresponding reports are also provided in the 2018 Report of the Citizens' Counselor, which mention the extreme case of a dangerous and inappropriate penitentiary. This is a Palaio building, a former camp without a fire safety system and an antiquated electromechanical plant, which does not even satisfy the required requirements either. It is characteristic that in a camp forty square meters there can be twenty, twenty-five prisoners hanging sails in their bunks, in order to ensure an elementary privacy, which is not easy, because, as Fouko says, "the camp is the diagram of a power exercised for the sake of general visibility". There is also no organised feeding area, with the result that prisoners eat in their beds, neither the space required to move because of the overpopulation burdened by the operation of the Court of Appeal in Evia. There is no doubt that over-collapsing in shops causes tensions and is the top issue in trying to safeguard and protect the rights of detainees on the basis of European standards. This overpopulation is not due to the total number of detainees in relation to the existing positions, because the evidence provided by the Minister is true, as much as the unequal distribution of the detainees in the existing stores, of course, which the present government is trying to balance out. However, it makes no sense to hide the problem under the carpet when our country in recent years is the fourth indictment by the European Court of Justice of inhuman and degrading treatment in prisons in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. And this, namely, to join states such as Russia, Ukraine and Romania, is something that internationally highlights the image of our country, a country with democratic institutions and legal certainty. I therefore consider the modernisation of the infrastructure, to which it is certain that the operation of the technical services will also contribute in the context of the new services structures of the General Secretariat for Crime Policy. However, we must point out that more prisons will not automatically tackle the problem of overcrowding, because after a few years they will be filled and we will also need new ones and so on. Nor is it solved with decongestive policies. We saw it by the Act of Friday, which, while causing serious risks of the break-up of public order, has a corresponding and timely outcome. The prisons were cleared and refilled after two years. So what is the result and the feasibility of decongested laws? It is therefore a question of a holistic approach to the criminal phenomenon in terms of legislative power, which defines the frameworks for penalties and judicial power, which has the measurements and, of course, the penitentiary system and the penitentiary policy. Therefore, we should look at all three aspects and interactions between them in order to develop a policy that respects the rights of detainees on the basis of the common values of the European Union for human dignity and human rights. After all, in a liberal society the justice system must not be vengeful and strict, but mild and diligent. This is the current trend in the European Union, namely the de-escalation of the penalty frames and the alternative ways of building them. To this end, it is important to establish the home-to-house restriction by electronic surveillance, in accordance with Article 10 of this Regulation, which is an alternative to restricting freedom. I hope that it will speed up and expand its operation so that it can replace imprisonment in defiance offences, as well as in temporary detentions, thus contributing to the decongestion of penitentiary stores. It is said - and not unfairly - that the level of a society's culture is seen by the conditions prevailing in the penitentiary system, health care and the education of detainees. So we need to get out of the present provisions on medical care in shops, which can be visited by external doctors and nurses. As well as the provisions on return, which demonstrates the Government's practical interest in social reintegration. At this point I would like to point out that a system aimed at social inclusion is of great importance, and education, the second opportunity school. In some prisons, such as at Chalkidas, there is no second-for-equity school and as a result they lose their school and those who go there. Education is an inalienable right and an additional factor in tearing down the walls that separate prison from society. Because as Victor Uggo had rightly said: 'Where he opens a school, he closes a prison'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr Zebble. Mr Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the data are changing with them and the needs with which the institutional framework must go. At the same time, the means to be provided to the administration to deal with the problems are also evolving. Such improvements come to bring with its various provisions the draft law under discussion in the area of penitentiary policy, but also in other areas within the competence of the Ministry of Civil Protection. It intervenes in a wide range of regulations relating to human resources, the organization and structure of services, the equipment and the digital modernisation of the administration, but also in the conditions for the creation of penalties, which has raised most controversies during the discussion. In particular, the first part attempts to improve the effectiveness of anti-crime policy and to amend provisions of penal law. How is that possible? With the change in the composition of the Central Transport Committee, by changing the procedure whereby prisoners enter therapeutic establishments in order to dismantle them and drastically reduce the illegal behaviours observed there, by redefining the licensing framework for prisoners, since it is necessary to check the growing cases of violations of licences, a behaviour which is in a logical conflict with the very concept of prison. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that when a prisoner despises the authorities responsible for his custody and the power to oblige him to carry out his sentence we cannot well expect that he himself will behave in society in the exercise of his licence. The authorisation framework should therefore be linked to the inefficiency of the act assessed and to the effort it itself makes for its reintegration into society as a whole, starting from the behaviour it displays at the time of the construction. What other improvements are involved? Upgrading the Inspection and Control Body to effectively supervise detention stores. This House therefore supports, in order to carry out its duties adequately, particularly in the investigation of crimes committed in prisons, and also in the safeguarding of the necessary health conditions prevailing in them. The redefinition of the conditions for the transfer of detainees to rural detainees and to the central warehouse of material, and on this issue, what has been said and the framework of permits, also applies. This will only change those who meet the strictest conditions to limit the escapades to which the Minister referred in the debate to the Commission. Other improvements are the establishment of the Technical Services and Electronic Governance Directorates at the General Secretariat of Anti-Criminal Policy. It was strange to hear about these options on this issue, but in reality it is not because these services are being created, but because they were not already there. The Headquarters of the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy in order to be able to effectively formulate and implement its actions. The extension of the RANOOS reintegration programme with the creation of annexes to other cities in the country. The provision for supervising the important work of electronic prisoner surveillance to work this directly and effectively. The arrangements for official matters for the staff of detention stores are many of which are their own requests. The forecasts for the transport of people undergoing treatment by an appropriate vehicle and accompanied by an appropriate doctor. But necessary is also the changes made by the provisions of Part Two to the law of EIOPASA, now TAPASA, in order to meet the needs of the fund. In addition, operational, useful and organisational interventions are made under the provisions of Part Three, so that the exercise of the administration is simpler for workers, more effective for services and more user-friendly. These are the flexibility provided by the Greek Police's clubs to make use of the revenues, to strengthen the work of the Citizens' Counselor on the subject assigned to him by Law 4662/2020, to facilitate the dismantling of the Greek Police's services by materials intended for destruction or recycling, as well as to extend the framework for the use and use of seized media and vehicles. At this point I would like to comment on the fact that we are sometimes having arrangements in bills, which seem to us to be important, but they are very important for the proper functioning of the services. Such are both mentioned above. Moreover, it is worthwhile to upgrade it to the Police School by strengthening the course of study in it. However, it is very important to provide for the possibility of introducing an exception to the Police School and, finally, to the House of people who have lost their family into the major disasters, the fire in Matti and the floods in Attica. I must now refer to the remarks made by the rapporteur for Officerial Response, which obviously perpetuated us from political guilt, that by this fair regulation we would like to remind the citizens of the great disasters in SYRIZA governance. Too bad, I'll say. Furthermore, it is equally important that the Ministry of Civil Protection also be given the opportunity to recruit a citizen after an excellent act, even without the prior existence of a vacant organic position. Reverting now to the last provisions of the draft law, I must say that it is essential that the General Secretariat for Civil Protection be served, but that the establishment of the Mechanism Inspection and Control Unit, which oversees the implementation of actions under its competence, and that the regulation for unaccompanied minors - many of them have been mentioned - who lack a well-known residence and to whom the protective care measure should not be applied, should be referred for urgent hospitality. It is, I think, clear from what has already been noted in the broad scope of the improvements, which the bill brings, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr Constantinidis, for keeping time. Does Mrs. Kafantari hear us? Oh, no. Mr. George Karasmanis has the floor from Pella and New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which, due to the constant change of circumstances, is necessary to supplement provisions and correct the existing legal framework and provide solutions. It is a legislative intervention, which is in the right direction, which concerns the Ministry of Civil Protection. First of all, it is attempting to modernise the penitentiary system with a view to respecting legality, the security of citizens and prisoners and their rights and the dismantling of penitentiary stores and their reorganisation so that they can meet the current needs of the system. The necessary changes are made to their fund so that it can respond effectively to the needs of the future. Here, Minister, there is a problem. At the board of directors. This fund is not intended to represent the border guards and the special guards, as are the police who come from these bodies. I would therefore suggest that they be included. After all, it is a request for a fair, reasonable, fair, which has been submitted by their representatives to the committee and the memorandum that has been sent to us. After all, we must not forget that this House is trusted positively to you, because it has a great contribution to preventing and suppressing crime. This staff have been staffed with children educated, graduated, with high-graduate high-level high-grade high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level high-level, well-trained, who have served in the Armed Forces, Special Forces, and stationed officers, etc. Our rapporteur, like the previous colleagues, has been detailed in the first part of the bill on penitentiary. I, in order not to repeat the same things and afflict this House, will focus on a number of points and articles that I think are of particular importance. The reconstruction of the police is through the reform and strengthening of police training. This is why Article 36 provides for an increase in school time from five to six semesters in the Police School from the next school year and allows already graduates from the school to attend academic seminars to upgrade their degree. After all, the Minister himself has spoken to the Commission and reiterated in plenary today that he will bring a bill modernising and upgrading the education of police officers, and I believe that he will enable this school to become an equal level with the HR. A very important article is also Article 38, which provides for administrative penalties to owners of animals which cause damage to agricultural crops. As I come from a rural prefecture, and the damage of this kind has been our concern, this article comes to fill an existing void after the abolition of the Farm Guard. So the police are allowed to impose fines, and so far in such cases the passion has had to resort to the courts, which is time-consuming, cosmopolitan and often incomplete. It is also fair that the fine will escalate in such a way that someone who accidentally has caused damage, for once, is punished more severely in the event of relapse. Article 29 provides the officials of the EPC with favourable arrangements for the submission of statements of assets by simplifying procedures. In other words, bureaucracy is limited and suffering is avoided. However, I would like to make a point. These people are at the forefront of guaranteeing public order and during the eleventh month, together with the medical - nursing personnel of the whole country that fights life against the pandemic are literally on their feet for the proper application of the necessary health measures to deal with the pandemic and, indeed, they have also mourned victims of the pandemic. It was therefore an act of recognition, a symbolic financial aid in support of other front-line sectors. However, I consider it unfair, in addition, not to receive the allowance of EUR 100 border regions a month, which all civil servants and self-government officials receive and that the security bodies have been excluded. When we get rid of the pandemic nightmare, in the context of the country's financial possibilities, we have to discuss and decide on the status of their profession as dangerous and unhealthy. I also think that they should be immediately paid to their working nights by increasing the amount of night compensation, since many police officers have already filled the top, mainly because of the many night services and the suspension of their permits when dealing with the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of them, such as the overwhelming majority of citizens, who recognise the high sense of responsibility with which our police officers are carrying out their mission. In the difficult times when we are living, the police are often called upon to override themselves in order to safeguard public order and guarantee the security of the citizen. And it is, unfortunately, a sign of the time at one time, that we seek a police officer as a savior and ask to risk his life and the next day, to have forgotten about his offer, or to generalise some individual incidents, so that we can put the whole House to the test. For me one message is the message that we should send from the House that the Greek policemen in their overwhelming majority are esteemed of our confidence. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u224	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the contents of the bill currently being discussed in plenary are the result of the transfer of the penitentiary policy by the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, which is why it is based on the logic of repression rather than penitentiary. The New Democracy Government's penitentiary policy is persecuted, I would say, by a vengeance, by a spirit that is inconsistent with prison. It is through this policy that the spirit and arrangements of anti-crime policy are brought to bear in the field of penitentiary policy, when it is known that the imposition of the penalty for committing the act is clearly distinguished by the creation, execution, linked to the person. The person now, following his sentence by the court and his imprisonment in prison - is being imprisoned because he has been punished, not to be punished further - must be punished and prepared for his social reintegration. In this context, equal treatment of detainees is a basic principle. So penitentiary policy, on the one hand, is the result of the transfer of its powers from its natural area, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Civil Protection and, on the other, is reflected in the bill with the stricter status of the permits for detainees and the arrangements for the transfer of detainees to rural prisons. The status of licences has been tightened up without any substantial justification, since it is not based on any scientific research. The argument for misuse of licence by many is unstable. On the contrary, yes. It has been recorded that only a small percentage of detainees do something wrong with their licence, whether not returning to prison or committing a new offence. Of course, and if that were not the case, it is not understandable how increasing time for a prisoner to be given a licence could reduce its misuse. Through these arrangements which are reflected in the current draft law, many problems will be created in the current penitentiary system, which is on its limit, since the current arrangements are functioning and decompressively. Moreover, the prerequisites of the institutional framework for the transfer to rural prisons become more stringent in a way that leads to the undermining, shrinking, and even the lifting of the institution of rural prisons in a proactive manner, which has given a great deal to penitentiary policy. Rural prisons are not, as has been said by a colleague, the achilles heel of the penitentiary system, an important institution, which serves prisons, security, humanism and reintegration into society as a whole. The argument for many escapes from rural prisons is also unstable. After all, our country will face sanctions both from the Council of Europe and from the European Court of Human Rights, since there is a distinction between detainees with the current bill excluding from the transfer to a rural store convicted of terrorist offences. But if you enter this restriction, why don't you extend it, Minister, to other heinous crimes? In conclusion, the ideological political nuclei of the bill reverses the modern philosophy of prisonism. I now come to refer to the conditions under which this draft law is tabled, debated and voted on. Overcrowding, over-consummation in Greek prisons is an important problem and a time-consuming one. Over-concentration is considered an infringement of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights under torture, inhumane and degrading treatment. However, the exceptional conditions of the pandemic also make special arrangements, especially in closed structures such as prisons, in which the spread of the virus, due to crowding, is highly probable and even much larger than in open spaces. Unfortunately, we have such phenomena, as colleagues have already said, in several penitentiary stores in the country. In this regard, therefore, the stricter application of the framework, both for the status of licences and for the transfer to rural prisons, is moving in the opposite direction. Not only is the phenomenon of overpopulation being tackled in prisons, but the proposed provisions are increasing. The decongestion of prisons with the creation of the sentence at home or with electronic surveillance should be prioritised. I now come to a second chapter on the majorization of the General Secretariat for Crime Policy. It is created, as was rightly observed by many colleagues, by a ministry within the Ministry with the provision of new posts and services. A hundred and thirty new posters are being created in the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy, when in previous years the Ministry of Justice has not exceeded a total of thirty. Now, another hundred and thirty are added to thirty. This is a separate informal ministry, while among the positions created are thirty I.E. Headquarters. No position of scientific staff, forensics, sociologists, psychologists, and no place in regional services, in this case in prisons, so much needed by both scientific staff and security staff, given their subsistence. One more remark to come up with. There is no expectation of police training. A further period of study is simply introduced. Of course, it takes higher-level education, but at the same time also the education of police officers in democracy, civilisation and rights in such a way that they do not treat citizens' rights as enemies of the state, as we have seen in recent times, at an increasing rate. Finally, the Minister and the meeting of the Commission and the plenary today said: "The large majority did not deal with yesterday's day, the anniversary of the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou by a police officer. It's over. We will continue unsuccessful." The anti-constitutional law on banning meetings lives and reigns. Of all this is evident, gentlemen of the New Democracy and Minister, that you live in another world. You live out of social reality. You ignore this reality, ignore the social processes, ignore the social forces that move them and activate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u225	Finish it, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u226	I shall conclude, Mr President. Apart from the health and the resulting economic crisis, which is the result of both the memorial policies and, more generally, the neoliberal perception and practice, there is an institutional crisis in the country, which, unfortunately, the New Democracy Government is building up - a step. In fact, this recent period is taking place at a speedy pace. Autocracy and preventive and repressive is the daily life of the activities of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the General Secretariat of Anti-criminal Policy. I'm sorry, Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is true that the figures themselves, as far as pandemic is concerned, show your great failure to manage this serious issue, which is not only about Greece, of course. The day-to-day results, with the evidence of cases, deaths, and all of them show that you didn't manage it properly. So to overcome this case, which is actually incompetent on your part - I do not want to say anything more - you come and use other means. You are trying to use pandemic to implement anti-grass policies at all levels and much more, I would say, to implement what we have said, the 'Mitsotakis Memorandum', a memorandum on all areas of political and social life. But how will this be achieved? It will be achieved by law enforcement, as you say, but for you what is it? It seems from the outset that law and order are the suppression of any popular reaction, the creation of fear and terror in society, which is a very negative element in the evolution of any society. With this draft law, which, if you want, concerns the penitentiary and certain arrangements for the Security Bodies and the Greek Police, you bring the country decades back and your recent practices, essentially in the pre-declaration ERA, the pre-declaratory right. What we lived in Athens and the anniversary of Gregopoulou last Sunday and at the Polytechnic University, as well as other repressive moves that we have experienced in recent times, are images of a bad past. However, I would like to stress that what has been said and distributed at the last meeting of the Committee on Public Administration, which was examining the draft bill, shows exactly where it is likely to bring the political dialogue and the Greek society a large part of the New Democracy Party, into a post-mortem regime, for which, to date, we are all agreed that it is a past and that we are moving to a democratic society. What was the way you handled this draft law? All operators or rather not all, I will say the overwhelming majority of the bodies were negative on the main points of the bill, whether they are the Citizens' Counselor, lawyers, the Human Rights Union, trade unions and trade unions. They were against it. But you have continued the same path, you have tabled it, and you have brought it to plenary today. You have heard no one, instead of bringing a bill in the middle of a pandemic, which would solve the issues of workers and the Security Body, but also the big issue of detention stores, whether it is about the prisoners or about the penitentiary workers, of whom we have victims. Unfortunately, we have death and penitentiary staff and unfortunately and third death recently, yesterday or this morning, in prisons that show the big problem. Instead of bringing a bill which solves these issues, you bring a bill in the opposite direction, even from what is being followed at a pan-European level. At this moment in Europe, prisons are being dismantled, I would say, and measures are being taken. We urge you to accept the three amendments, which deal with concrete measures both in prisons and in the security bodies and in the Greek police. Testing first of all, tracking, personal protection. Do these, to really show an interest, because workers are also penitentiary workers, people with rights are prisoners, workers are also those who work in the Greek Police and in general in the Security Body. You're turning the penitentiary system into medieval conditions. Of course, from the first moment, from your government's programming statements, which you carried the General Secretariat for Crime Policy from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, you have shown as a government a certain logic, the logic of repression and punishment as punishment, away from the basic doctrine of prison as reintegration and reintegration policies. You also carried the Ministry of Migration Policy. There you understood your mistake and re-established it. You had carried it, abolished it, put it in the WIFE, and then re-established it under the needs that were created. As far as the General Secretariat of Crime Policy is concerned, I do not think you are going to make any moves, because here you are strengthening it and actually creating a ministry within the ministry itself. On the other hand, I would also like to mention the role of Greek police officers, the role of repression and terror. You're practically working on them. That's the one. I will also say that Greek police officers and workers as a whole in the Security Body are not consumable. They're right-handed workers. Both working conditions and their working rights have always been left and SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance were close to them. So take concrete measures, not only in the health part, which is also mentioned in the amendments that we have tabled, but also in the part of education and their substantial upgrading. But it seems in your practice that your aim is not to tackle pandemic. I come to what I started with. These practices seem to be our goal of terror and repression and, in fact, of implementing a new normality. The new regularity for you, the New Democracy, is the repression and terror of society. You are turning us back and at the same time giving tests to the extreme right-wing audience and, unfortunately, to a part of the right-wing party of the New Democracy itself, which, at least in the last - communal - is very clear. I return to what was said yesterday at the fourth meeting of the Commission on the draft law. Of course, we have heard today that there will also be a special police force in the universities from the meeting of Minister Chrysochoidis with Mrs Kerameos. So, this is your regularity, the police rulership? Because no one can deny that there must be policing and substantial civil protection. But other police, other police domination and other work for Greek and Greek police officers. I would say that the Left - as I have said before - is close to the workers' demands. But you are sending them to the battle of repression, because these are commands, without insinuation, beyond armour against the virus, without substantial training. Because you hired a thousand five hundred months ago. With two, three months of training, they go out with machines on the road with whatever risks. And unfortunately, we have also seen tragic incidents recently: brother, who was not trained in gun and stuff like that. These are tragic events. There needs to be a substantial upgrading of the educational process and the recruitments that are carried out through an APA, which, unfortunately, you have forgotten at all levels, across all ministries. Because we hear that there will also be a concrete change law in the ADP as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u229	Finish it, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u230	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you. With regard to the supremacy, it was heard by some police unionists that the schools were being highered. You didn't say that. You'll bring in another bill. However, I will say that we have tabled a specific draft law on how it should be a higher school of police, based on European data. On the other hand, with SYRIZA's term of office, the army of officers in the second, third and fourth year was effectively abolished and you are now reinstated. That is why we are tabling an amendment. I must say that the Greek police and the security bodies are not the army. They're Security Corps. It's something different. In conclusion, Mr President, I will say that the incident with the bouquet and the man of the Greek Police is not easily overcome. This inappropriate movement, lack of respect for the dead, is a move contrary to our culture, our history and, more generally, to any sense of institutional and customary law. Is it enough, Minister, for an ESA to come to an end? No, it's not enough for an ESA to get this over with. This is a 'coffee in the cake' of a series of insulting practices, which are followed lately against Greek society, anti-right minority practices, because the majority of police and workers in the Security Body are democratic citizens. All this is looking for clearance. Don't give any more tolerance to such tactics. There is a need for specific control bodies and political will not to happen again. If they continue, I fear that you too, Minister, will have personal responsibility. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysohoidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. I am tabling a number of legislative improvements, which you have seen and studied, and then we could discuss them. I would like to say a few words about two amendments tabled by the Ministry. One concerns FRONTEX, which is currently unable to obtain equipment as a European border agency based in Poland, because there is no regulation. Therefore, and until such an obstacle is removed, it is required to provide the relevant material from the authorities of the State in which it is developing and attempting to do so. In this case, there is no legislation in our national legal system for the provision of service equipment to officials from other states. It is therefore necessary to legislate to resolve this issue in order for the permanent staff of FRONTEX, who are involved in joint operations with the Greek forces, to be able to bear arms, ammunition and other equipment belonging to the Greek Police. In other words, we will grant equipment for a period of time until the legislative issues are regulated in the European Union, on FRONTEX. I would like to tell you that FRONTEX from 1 January will unfold on the Greek border some hundred border guards both on land and on the sea, so as to strengthen Greece's effort to guard the borders. The second issue concerns supply contracts for bakers' ware ending on 31 December 2020. They shall be extended for a further period of six months to ensure the smooth completion of the competitive procedures and, at the same time, the uninterrupted provision of the products concerned to the prisoners. Allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few words, because there is a lot of talk about the police issue and what has been done so far. Beyond what I mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u233	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Can we now hear the rapporteurs and close up?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u234	All right, Mr. President, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Minister. Minister, have you mentioned whether you will accept the parliamentary amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u236	They cannot be accepted, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u237	Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor from Mera25. Ms. Bakadima, I think three minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u238	It's too much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I am going to refer to the amendment with a general number of 639 and a special number 7 which concerns adding to the responsibilities of the Special Secretariat for Unaccompanied Minors on the issue of urgent hospitality. Indeed, we agree that it is in line with the proposed Article 41 of the draft law on which we have spoken positively and that is why we will support it. I will conclude, once again, on the issue of pandemic, because it is an issue which concerns us all. Believe me, Minister, no one is badwill nor we have these days made and used evidence from our minds, nor have we invented them, nor have we created them. We all received announcements from associations of police officers who shared their daily anxiety over cases that they saw rising, as well as similar announcements about the penitentiary stores. POSY spoke of more cases than you mentioned to us all these days and even denounced that many police officers who had found themselves positive to the coronary were forced to go on duty to complete the services. Unfortunately, the coronary is a real one in our society. There's the Greek police. There's in the penitentiary. Given the seriousness of the pandemic and the situation we are all experiencing, which is truly unprecedented, I would like to ask you, Minister, to take the initiative either within the public administration committee or in plenary to have a special debate on the coronary in both the police and the prisons so that we can have full information. Of course, I will conclude by saying that we expect with interest, as I have told you in committee, the draft law on the part of police training, to discuss and table our proposals on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Mr. Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u240	I will conclude, Minister, by saying that you yourself admitted that a comprehensive proposal on the penitentiary system must come, we must discuss the issue seriously and we will have an integrated system that we will have and we will be able to say that we are a civilised country and, at the same time, those who are convicted to tell who is to remain without permission and the rest of them to have the permits properly when they are in line with their obligations. I also want to say about the executives of the Greek Police. There's a lot of talk about kids who're always on the road with a minimum wage, which's all over the place. I think that words that have been heard, such as democratisation in the Greek Police, or to "clean" the young police officer, who has been really enjoyed, and I don't think he did it to smash the memory of a dead man with the bouquet, are what we have to take care of. We are proposing, as we said, Mr Minister, that an allowance be given to the Greek policemen who have been in the front line since the first day of the pandemic, as was given to all health workers. Look at that. I think it's nothing serious about taking out a pole and for these kids who are all on the streets. Also, they become rapid test all the time to the penitentiaries, but also to the police. Furthermore, what has been said and must be done, is to establish as soon as possible the police of the universities. A very big problem will be solved within the Greek universities. The students are going to learn letters, get their degrees, leave their families and create their own families. Universities are not to salt them, enter people, most of whom are not students, unfortunately. Therefore, well-being, fairness and discipline in the Greek universities must come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr Mylonakis. Mrs Maria Konnaka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to the bill, I will not go back to what we have discussed in detail. However, I would like to highlight a completely arbitrary reasoning on which the entire government, but also its members, the parliamentarians of the ruling party, actually abolished basic rights and positive institutions of the Penitentiary, such as those of the permission of prisoners and the transfer to rural prisons. You constantly repeat that in this way you want to end the abuse of licences and allow it only to those who show a mood for reintegration or those who make good use of it. Where does this come from on the basis of the horizontal criterion that you are establishing for the granting of licences? You're doing exactly the opposite. In other words, you are putting an upper limit on the actual creation of a penalty that does not discriminate. I do not go into the procedure if what you say is true, that there is not proper use of the licence, but even in this case there is no discrimination when you deny such a right to people who are not judged on the basis of their behaviour, but on the basis of how long they have remained in prison. Therefore, it is about arrangements that create more explosive conditions and eventually recycle the punishing, exterminationist logic that facilitates relapse rather than reintegrating the detainees into society. In relation to the regulations concerning the Ministry of Migration, the position of the Minister, if you wish, confirmed our concern about the real intentions of the government to give a substantial and comprehensive solution to the real protection and to ensure the proper living conditions of minor children. Firstly, on the one hand, with regard to the amendment, yes, it is logical that the immediate issues of the accommodation and accommodation of minors must be resolved, but it is not really clear why these powers are removed from the National Centre for Social Solidarity, the most competent area for the Preferential Structures, which has such experience and are transferred to the Ministry of Immigration. What worried us, however, more than the Minister's position, is that he presented as the most appropriate structures for hosting unaccompanied minors the closed centres that either he or he intends to build on the islands. To give him an opportunity to share with him that, despite the agreements he seeks to make with certain government officials, in total, the inhabitants of the islands, especially Lesvos, as has become clear, I think, in the past, they do not agree to continue to be the islands the prisons of minors and other refugees, they do not accept to remain as a prisoner of thousands of incarcerated immigrants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up with this. With regard to the amendment relating to FRONTEX, we are clearly opposed to this amendment, because it is really FRONTEX that is above all an agency of repression, which is coming precisely to oversee, how our islands will continue to be the place where these refugees are caught and how the European Union will be protected from the transfer of all these people to the countries of their real destination. The staff of FRONTEX are already serving in our country and are involved with its own means of safeguarding the land and sea borders in business. It is well-known that the involvement of these bodies is being controlled in illegal refugee repropriations to Turkey. FRONTEX itself has announced that it is conducting an investigation into these complaints. Now, with regard to the amendment, the arms and ammunition that the Greek Police are calling for Frontex's personnel to receive from the Greek Police are basically aggressive. It's not a bulletproof vest, but mostly a pistol, bars, shine grenades, tear gas and any other weapon there is. This equipment prejudges more active participation in the repressive work at the borders and, of course, a intensity of repression against refugees and migrants. In view of the fact that FRONTEX staff come from different countries, with different levels of training in arms, but also different attitudes in the dogma of repression, different control and accountability procedures, in our view, even if there is a joint mandate from FRONTEX on how to act, this does not ensure anything in practice as to how each member will function. Of course, the fact that these armed personnel have special protection and domicile for their action gives rise to many concerns about how they perceive it themselves and how they will make use of their repressive work. We are vertically opposed to regulations that confirm the continued stay of FRONTEX in our country, which is nothing but a mechanism that defends the interests of the European Union, which chooses to keep our country as a storeroom of souls. They have neither come to defend our borders nor, of course, to guarantee them. That is why we are going to vote against it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement. Mr Kamine, if you're not ready and ready, I can go to the next rapporteur and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u244	Let me tell you something, Mr President, on a point of order. I'm not ready, because they've brought a few changes to the bill lately, and we need to see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u245	And they're essential too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u246	Let's go to Mrs. Eleftheriadou then. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I too have the same problem. Indeed, I see that the legislative improvements are essential, that is to say, the size of the penalties, depending on which penalties and what the penalties are to be granted, or whether they are to be transferred to rural prisons. I see that what the Federation of Penitentiary Officers has asked for, namely to provide for a provision of care for people who are already in rural prisons, as far as I can tell, the Ministry is absolved by proposing'stay'. There are too many articles, which we should normally see, we should have them at the beginning of the debate or at least, if not from the beginning, from the middle of the debate today. Mr President, if you can, we would like you to give us a second, and then we would like to comment on these, if we wish. Can I move on to my dentistry and then place myself on the legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u248	Sure. Mr. Andreas Koutsoubas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u249	After this development - and I cannot say it is right for my colleagues - I would suggest this, although I too would like to be as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. They are, they say, amazed at what the Minister has accepted and brought, because they see that we are genuinely protectors and security and the licensing system. I would suggest that we stop for ten minutes, so that Members can see the improvements, so that I too can be in line with the Rules of Procedure. Let's take a ten-minute break, so colleagues can see. I am ready, but I would like to hear their views too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u250	Do you want to take a 10-minute break, Mr. Kamin and Mrs. Eleftheriadou?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u253	We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes and coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I am going to put forward a legislative improvement concerning the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u256	It'll be distributed. Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. The first thing I would like to say is that we insist on the numbers that the Ministry has given us. On 1 December this year the Ministry officially informed us that the total prison posts were ten thousand seventy-five and the prisoners eleven thousand four hundred fifty-nine, that is, a thousand two hundred eighty-four more. I just got the removal. These, given the new wings you have opened. So overpopulation exists. In one case, in the Komotini prison, it exceeds 200%. So there is a serious overpopulation problem. Secondly, I welcome the fact that some improvements have been made to the percentages of the sentence that this person who has been sentenced to more than ten years in prison or imprisonment. However, the issue with permits remains. I would like to see, because I consider very important measures to be an alternative to the creation of public works and electronic surveillance, if the Minister can give us a timetable when he estimates that they will be ready to implement these alternative measures for the creation of the penalty. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister told us that today's bill concerns a fundamental system of democracy, the penitentiary system, for which many debates, studies and many laws have been passed. We agree. However, we do not agree with the draft legislation under discussion, as does not all the discussions, studies, investigations and laws which it has invoked. He said the Minister is trying two things with the bill. The first, the formation of management structures. After a year and a half, since there are administrative bumps and sluggishness for a year and a half, he comes to build a super-ministerial. The second, he said, is the improvement of the staff system in order to secure the safe operation of the prisons. Not a word for reintegration, which is the main goal of penitentiary. The Minister lied to us, such as the fact that there are no overnumbers in prisons, but also Mr Kamines emphasized it and many other colleagues. He lied to us that there are hundreds of licence violations, hundreds of homicides and hundreds of clashes, lies which have been denied by the Citizen's Protection Counsellor, but also by the evidence we have presented to both the Committees and the Plenary Assembly. The Minister spoke of a so-called fair permit system and of a fair transition to rural prisons, and spoke of remorse, good behaviour and the mood of reintegration. For the remorse, Mr Lappas told him that there could be no remorse during the execution phase. Of course, his bill says other things. It does not speak of either good behaviour within prison or of disposing of reintegration. He judges according to the act and not the behavior inside the prison. The Minister has also told us that it is a story in police violence, that we imagine it and that there are no complaints. We respond: Does he not know that there have been complaints of police violence by the Association of Graduates from the National School of Public Administration and Government? Complaints about police violence were also made by the Co-operatives' Co-ordinating Committee in the press and the media and by the Association of Photographers of Greece. And of course, as our parliamentary representative has said, Amnesty International tells you of police violence and serious human rights violations. We also had complaints in Heraklion and Sepolis and in Ioannina and in Patras and in many other regions of Greece. I want to say something about the special guards, because you said we offended the special guards. We don't offend the special guards, Minister. You insult them! You offend their need for work, putting their lives on second fate. At least listen to them, because the answer to your festive message was that "good festive sms, but it's not enough, we also need practical support". That's what they told you. Thousands of five hundred recruits, and within a few days to take a gun and go out on the streets, are neither respect nor protection. I can't believe no one applauds that. It is not security for the citizens, it is not for the special guards themselves. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr Metatakis asked what SYRIZA did for four and a half years. I am referring to Amendment No 639 and Article 41 of the bill. So SYRIZA - although we should not respond, because we are opposition rather than Mr Metarakis - has created the committee's institution with No 4554/2018 and has served the National Centre for Social Solidarity. Now what does Mr. Metarakis do? The proposed amendment completes the removal of the competence for unaccompanied minor applicants from the National Centre for Social Solidarity supervised by the Ministry of Labour and entrusted to the Special Secretariat for Unaccompanied Minors, Mrs. On the pretext of abolishing protectionist care and the false claim that the mechanism for managing urgent hospitality requests was missing, you explicitly state that you are going to create a new specialised management mechanism for these requests with Mrs. Iloydakis, obviously entrusted with posters such as each of your structures. You should immediately, Minister, activate the committee institution established by SYRIZA with Law 4554/2018. Ensure that the National Centre for Social Solidarity with Personnel is strengthened. Restore responsibility for unaccompanied refugees to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because, above all, they are small children who are entitled to our protection. That is why we are going to say 'PARENT' in this amendment. [[This is where the ending bell is ringing over the speaking time of the honourable Member.]] I'm gonna need two minutes to put myself in the amendments. However, I would also like to say in the other amendment number 640 that the staff of FRONTEX are armed with their own weapons. This arrangement covers the ALS to be able to charge permanent staff of FRONTEX equipment and ammunition. Obviously, it is a regulation linked to the recruitment of the ten thousand new employees of the agency. It is well known that our opposition to the cover is offered by FRONTEX to the Government's relaunching operations by its director. This is a regulation of bureaucratic facilitation rather than a substance. Article 2 of that amendment continues the unacceptable state of extension for the third time of the contracts for the supply of prisons for a further six months. At first it was extended until 30-6-2020, then until 31-12-2020 and now 30-6-2021. The Secretary-General for Crime Policy demonstrates competence in direct assignments of sanitary materials, with the well-known issues that have arisen, but is unable to complete a standing tender for the supply of prisons. We believe that the relentless extensions of the contracts already concluded are essentially circumventing the legal framework of public procurement and raising issues of transparency and protection of the public interest. You do not accept the amendment to the Change Movement, which I believe leads to the decongestion and strengthening of prisons. I think hiring pathologists and contagious people in the country's penitentiaries would only be for the sake of the penitentiary stores. I do not understand why you do not accept all three amendments tabled by SYRIZA to have a diagnostic check on all members of the uniform every 15 days free of charge, with state funds. To stop the compulsory distribution and feeding of the tests at the Hellenic Police Officers' School for the second, third and fourth educational year. This is an institution that is completely anachronistic and inefficient, which you have brought back. And while in the bill, in Article 13, you arranged for psychiatric patients not to be transferred from Security Body, but from doctors and nurses to psychiatric hospitals, you do not accept the same thing with the non-violent, ordinary citizens when it comes to unintentional hospitalization. We don't understand why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs Eleftheriadou. Mr Andreas Koutsoubas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. The debate is closed, ladies and gentlemen, in its plenary session under discussion and I think that, as I said at the outset, I expected - and I will be fair - positive speeches. We have heard concerns from the opposition, but I could focus on the fact that it was presented with a double staff. What was that double face about? In view of the lack of political arguments to face up to the overall governmental work or the current bill, to make suggestions and to highlight what needs to be solved immediately, it has been confined to characterisations such as "dangerous bill", "policy" etc. I wonder: Is there a coordinate state somewhere where there's no police? And what has been heard that the only work of the police, its mission, in accordance with its presidential decree of establishment, is only the fight against crime, where did you see it? Is it not the police's task to ensure order, peace, social well-being, compliance with laws? What have we got the police to run only for the thief? You were snatched by a phenomenon - I did not intend to mention it, but many colleagues have brought it back - of a bouquet with the bouquet, which has made an inappropriate, and of a memory of the dead, your colleague has brought the bouquet into committee. He had the bravery of this child, which I know, to come out and say: “I didn’t do it consciously. I didn't mean to offend memory. It was a reckless energy." While we listen to the killer, we hear the rapist, we hear every criminal and before we convict him - because there is the presumption of innocence - he has the right to hear, you condemned him before he even crosses the ED. Why did you do that? To tell us we brought the police rule. The police, however, always existed and will always exist. The phenomena of violence and injuriousness, wherever they exist, will be struck and those who must be punished, and those who must not be punished, will not be punished. So I remained in the following reflection. Where do you finally disagree with this bill? In the second and third part, concerning the Police Office Fund, the legislative improvements made by the Minister, I believe, are on them, on the basis of which you have moved. Here we have explained it from the outset. The Minister took the initiative and said that today we are not talking about the whole penitentiary problem. The bill is entitled ‘Privatizations of penal law’. What's he doing? On the one hand, it is trying to solve the organisational and operational problems of the services and, on the other, the establishment of the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy, which is a prerequisite for resolving the penitentiary system, we are strengthening the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. It creates the conditions so that we can have a better penitentiary system. And what's he doing? It is trying through these provisions to resolve these current issues that need a direct legislative initiative, because the existing legislative framework does not resolve them. The Minister comes - and there you were amazed - and accepts many of the comments concerning permits and rural prisons. But here, I wanted to raise this issue. You need to look into society and say it. Are you with the terrorists or are you with the Greek society?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Kutsuba...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u263	Let go, Mr. Ragossi. So you want them released where they killed Bakoyannis and the others? I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u264	Mercy! Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u265	I'll document my opinion. No mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u266	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u267	You made use of Article 3 of the Penitentiary Code. No, say it directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u268	You will give me the floor later, Mr President, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u269	You just want terrorists to go to rural prisons. Why? You'll explain that to us. So I'll tell you this: Make use of Article 3...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u270	No, he won't explain anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u271	Make use of Article 3 of the Penitentiary Code. What does Article 3 say? It says that prisoners must be treated equally! - Where they're being held. Because it has one paragraph then, which says: 'not to be mistreated when they are differentiated on colour, race, religion, political beliefs'. If the penitentiary legislature wanted to include criminal matters, he would say that you would put them in the same bag and be able to go to any prison. The European Parliament in its resolution of 265/2015 states that the detention conditions and the administration of prisons fall within the sole competence of the Member States. That's what they decide. If, therefore, the judiciary legislature wanted to restrict and say that they too would be entitled to this, then they would be able to abolish the equal treatment of judges and convictions. And you know why? Why don't you tell me that I must deprive myself of the right to go to rural prisons by someone who has been convicted of the offence of the cheque, of the non-payment of insurance contributions, of an economic offence, and to predict that the person who killed innocent people can go. And you weren't smart at least to ask if he's even shown any remorse, if he has apologized, to be entitled to it, too. You didn't ask for that either. So that was your hypocrisy. Your only problem with the entire bill was that you wanted to insist that terrorists also go to rural prisons. The Greek society, however, is against you. The majority of the Greek people want those who are committing bad offences, who have killed people who have fought for democracy like Bakoyannis and others, to punish them, because others will come, when they see that they are not punished, and will commit the same offences. After that, Mr President, I think the legislative improvements that the Minister has brought - not only seems to have been heard - are in the right direction. And as I said, the House is not ending today. The parliamentary function will continue and we will be here to correct further provisions for the good of the penitentiary system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much. We'll close...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u274	What can you say, Mr. Ragossi?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u275	He's addressed to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u276	No, he didn't address you. I "Ragusi" didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u277	You didn't hear "Ragusi", but he was looking this way....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u278	Oh, no. She was looking that way. Maybe she was talking about Ms. Konnakka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u279	He said we asked the terrorists not to go to prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u281	Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u282	Mr Koutsouba, I do not know you personally, but the truth is that I have attended all the meetings of both the committee and the plenary. Today I've been here since the morning. What you said now, I really don't know where you got it from. They are extremely insulting for a former governmentist party today. It may also be the smallest party that exists in the Greek Parliament and you insult it in this way. Mr Koutsouba, the answer to this unacceptable and ridiculous - let me describe - a dilemma that you have raised, whether we are with the terrorists or with the Republic - how you have formulated it precisely - or with society, has already been given. Because when the previous government ruled - here is the Citizen Protection leadership - people who were accused and then sentenced to terrorism, were arrested by the previous government. It is unacceptable to say these things. So I would ask you, very much - I do not want us to exacerbate the tons at the end - to withdraw this complaint, in essence, because if you do not withdraw, Mr Kutsuba, it is not whether we are in favour of terrorism or of society, but it is - and will remain in the end - if you are in favour of seriousness or ridiculousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr Ragosi. We will close the debate with the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u285	No, your minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u287	Please, Mr. Kutsuba, then he'll have to answer. Please! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. I thank you all and everyone for your warm participation in the debate on this very important bill, because, as I have said, the issue of penitentiary, penitentiary policy is one of the most important issues, - the fundamentals I would say - of democracy, and in that sense the debate that has taken place today is of great value. I think that after the debate many of your views and suggestions have been heard and we have accepted a number of regulations which, in fact, lead to an improvement in the provisions that we have put forward in our bill. I regard this as a victory for democracy and a victory for dialogue within Parliament and, ultimately, a victory for politics. I would like to refer to two, three things. Mr Kamines has put an agonizing question on whether we could commit ourselves to when we can apply these alternative forms of penalties. As soon as possible, Mr. Kamine. First of all, as far as the bracelet is concerned, we legalise the committee that manages it today so that it can continue to exist and extend it throughout the country. But, as you can see, there is one issue. The question is that Justice should also - interrogators, prosecutors, etc. - begin to take into account that this alternative form, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, is also in place, so that this measure can be applied to a large extent, in order to avoid, on many occasions, abusive condoms, which are burdening people. The second issue, which I would like to mention, concerns figures and figures. The numbers and sizes are what I told you before. And, indeed, we actually have the same number of detainees as in September 2019 - 15, 16 months ago - and at the same time we have three new wings in Chania and Nigrita. I think this shows a great diligence, shows an effort and a care to improve the situation. The situation is not ideal yet. For God's sake! I am sure, however, that with Drama as well as with a number of other initiatives that we are taking, things will get better. It was also raised by all of you - and by Mr Kamine - the issue of agricultural prisons. I agree with you, but we're not in 1960 anymore. We are at a time when we are going to digital transformation. I therefore believe that we need to look at the alternative forms of punishment, such as social work, which from the Ministry's political leadership will run very quickly. We will run very quickly, we will work with the Ministry of Justice and the municipalities, the Government and the Ministry of Interior, so that this slowly spreads across the country and includes too many prisoners to make social work a daily business. Personally for me, but also for Mr Economou, this is our vision, very direct aim in the next few years. Also, tele-education, telemedicine and a number of applications should be placed in the penitentiary and penitentiary systems so that they can function. Finally, as far as the structures of minors are concerned, I would like to say that I personally feel very proud. At the same time, for a long time, I was awkward, because when I had sent a letter to twenty-eight of my colleagues in the European Union to get minors from Greece, which was then four and a half thousand. It has received a grand 'no'. Fortunately, one and a half years later, today, almost all the countries of the European Union are taking up a thousand five hundred unaccompanied minors in European countries. This is very important. There's not a single unaccompanied minor on the islands. This, too, makes me proud, because the conditions there were really inhuman and miserable. The minors are currently hosted in human structures. Of course, we need improvement, but I think the General Secretariat dealing with this issue at the Ministry of Migration Policy is doing an excellent job and with the NGOs have organised very well the issue of the hosting of unaccompanied people. In conclusion, I should like to refer to a regulation that we have been going on in the next few days. We are at the final stage of the drafting of a Presidential Decree on the reform of the rated development of police officers, namely a new, rational and fair rating, a rating that will meet the new conditions, the new working conditions and the years of service of police officers until their repatriation, as they have been in recent years. The current rating provides for the development of police personnel, based on the fact that the policeman has been retired to about twenty-five years, which is no longer the case in recent years. Today, police officers are being deported after forty years of real service, which requires the revision of the relevant legislative framework for re-establishing law in the field of their grading development. Together with Mr. Nikos Chardalia - who is present - several months ago we voted for Law 4662/2020, namely the Civil Protection Act which completely reformed the Civil Protection and also the Firehouse. With this law now, the strains of the Fire Corps have already been settled. So this will take place in the next few years for police personnel following a debate with PDO, PDO and other trade unions, so that we can take their views seriously. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall finish, Mr President. I want to present to the House a list, a situation with supplies we have made in about one year from September 2019 until today, where we have provided thousands of materials for police personnel, the Agency, the Police, equipment, cars, fifteen and a half bulletproof vests within a year, too many materials. I don't want to tire you, I'll testify and you can be informed. I mention this for the following reason: It is the first time since the Olympic Games, in fact, that the Greek Police proceeded with a large programme of supplies and equipment in order to modernise its tools, its weapons, to modernise its means in order to make it more effective and a large part of it concerns the protection of police personnel. Thank you very much and thank you all and everyone for your participation in discussing this very interesting and important bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection is adjourned: "Consolidation of penitentiary legislation, provisions on the Social Welfare Fund, and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection and Ministry of Immigration and Asylum". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, forty-two articles, two amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u290	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u291	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u292	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Regions of penitentiary legislation, provisions on the Welfare Fund for Security Bodies and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u294	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-09-S1-commons.u295	With the consent of the House at 19.28', the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, December 10, 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Reorganisation of the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations and rename it to a Management and Development Agency for Cultural Resources, promotion of cultural heritage abroad, arrangements for the Historical Museum of Crete and the Museum of “Phovos Anogionaki” and other provisions of the Ministry of Culture and Sports.
