ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 17-09-2020 authorisation, his PRACTICAL PRACULES' PRACTICAL PRACTICE minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday, 17 September 2020, with regard to the resolution to the whole draft law "Reforming an institutional framework of the antiquities of sports operators, distinguished athletes' attendances V.A., setting up a National Platform of Sport Integrity, Hellenic Olympic Committee (E.E.)., Greek Paralympic Committee (E.R.) and other provisions.’;]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the debate on today's topical and urgent debate I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday, 21 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1020/7-9-2020, by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Insufficient molecular tests for COVID -19, citizens' financial burden and scandalous favor to the private diagnostic center." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1025/11-9-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Movement of Change Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, entitled "Creation of a Digital Museum in Minoa Pedias". 3. The Question No 1031/14-9-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthrakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The serious subsidization of the General Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Crete". 4. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "An urgent change of authorisation for recyclable materials storage facilities". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1023/10-9-2020 by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: 'The protection of human life and dignity'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1026/11-9-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Support for micro-retired people with the reinstatement of the social solidarity allowance of pensioners (ECA), underwriting and payment of the 13th ECA pension’. 3. The Question No 1033/14-9-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The problems of amateur football teams in Heraklion". 4. Under number 1028/14-9-2020, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Insufficiently the new national waste management plan (ESDP) to deal with the additional fires in recyclable material sorting centres (CDE) and recyclable material storage facilities". 5. The question by number 1024/11-9-2020 from the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Syrmalenios to the Minister of Health, entitled "Milos Health Center function". 6. Under number 1036/14-9-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Stop the crime at the Venizelos Metro Station in Thessaloniki". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 1039/14-9-2020, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousalas to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Procedures for several groups of refugees and migrants who indiscriminately return after their arrival on the Greek territory". 8. The question by number 988/28-8-2020 of the Greek Congress of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Furtures in Corfu that give rise to questions". 9. The question by number 1000/31-8-2020, by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Unjustly removal of rights to small-scale property and the need to extend for the normalisation of arbitrary structures". 10. The Question No 985/27-8-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Stop of district heating in Megalopolis'. 11. Under number 1002-1-9-2020, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the three critical trials this year, civil protection proved powerless and accountable. Unique government plan, falsification of reality and the concealment of truth." 12. The 1011/7-9-2020 topical question by the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In the air the function of the pathological department of the General Hospital of Thebes". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question by No 986/28-8-2020 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious discrimination against the positive people who lack the necessary examinations." 14. Observed. The Question No 1007/9-9-2020 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Why was the House suffocated and bypassed in the adoption of the anti-environmental National Waste Management Plan of New Democracy". 15. The question by No 987/28-8-2020, raised by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The disosmia of the HYTA Genders affects daily the quality of life and health in western Athens". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question asked by MP Pieria of the Radical Left Coalition, Mrs Elisabeth (Bette) Scooter to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Actual problem, probably harmful, dysosmia in areas of the IC Katerina". 17. Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Arsenis for his excellent report. 18. The Question No 1004/1-9-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: 'No fishing from Turkish trawlers to Greek waters'. 19. Under number 1016/7-9-2020, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "National Waste Management Plan: Sucky for National Contractors and huge costs for the environment and households". 20. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on 'Strengthening the unregulated placement of wind parks'. 21. The Question No 1035/14-9-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The releases of the nursery of the Municipality of Peristeri, recently taken through a programme for the unemployed, to be replaced by other still economical unemployed". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 6606/19-5-2020, was asked by Congressman I East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Health, on "Direct need to create a primary health structure in the Municipality of Pallini". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafa to the Minister of Health, entitled 'Reinforcement of the Ilioupoli Health Centre', under number 7636-23-6-20. 3. The question asked by Congressman Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘ Unacceptable malfunctions in the awarding of pension benefits to former OGA officials’. 4. The question, under number 7066/329/3-2020, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Special Management Centre for Congenital Heart Diseases in Children of the Children's Hospital "Agia Sophia" and the incidents detected by the hospital in the corresponding section of the "Cardiocratic Center". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: Today the Question No 1014/7-9-2020 and the Question No 8410/21-7-2020 and Question 8566/28-7-2020 will be debated. They will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. The question under number 1030/14-9-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. Also, the 1005-14-9-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject of "The releases of the nursery of the Municipality of Peristeri, recently recruited through a programme for the unemployed, to be replaced by other even economical unemployed", will not be discussed in consultation. We are now starting with the debate of the first under number 1030/14-9-2020 on a topical question from the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Taking problems for the nodes of the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) in Agia Pelagia, Achlada and Lygaria". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It is a matter known to the Minister, because I have put it by written question but it is also known to him because of its Cretan origin and the region it represents. The wider area of Agia Pelagia, including Lygaria and other smaller areas, is a highly developed tourist area. The traffic burden is too high and could not be served by the three connections for years, not to call them nodes, which were and still exist in the area. It is the link to Lygaria, the connection to Agia Pelagia and the connection to Achlada. With our intervention then, in 2014, to Minister Chrysochoidis, a decision was made to finance the project to upgrade these connections. He went through a thousand waves and ended up after many years and many mobilizations. I have not seen so many mobilisations for two - three knots, which is not the big project, but it is the necessary work to serve the region. Recently the tender has gone ahead and the work is being constructed. According to the municipality, as well as to the reality - because I also visited on the spot - the hub in the western region of Agia Pelagia, called the Achlada node, had to be predicted node, we asked for a node and a memicum studied. I mean, exactly what was there. It will not occur when this project is completed a connection from the current from Rethymnon to St. Pelagia and, of course, it is not foreseen by Heraklion to St. Pelagia. We have the problem with the Agia Pelagia node as such, the central one, because while designing in marginal geography there are the deceleration and acceleration strips, there is a technical problem because there is no infrastructure. It was not predicted - just to say - a wall of support or a set of stakes, which would enable the deceleration, base and build the deceleration and acceleration strips. I mean from Heraklion to St. Pelagia and from Saint Pelagia to Rethymnon. This is a very important shortage and I wonder how this has escaped. Also, there is the hub in Lygaria, which needs a safety upgrade. In other words, even if there is a memorial tomb in Lygaria, there should be a wall in order to avoid further accidents, because it's on a turn. Minister, we would like to see, firstly, if what is directly corrected in relation to these studies is being corrected and the additional work required is to be done, and secondly, if, until the project is delivered, there is also a traffic problem of temporary connection no longer, the construction site, which is in place and cannot be carried out by buses and vehicles because the infrastructure is incomplete on the roads of this region, of St. Pelagia, and they are not incompatible with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyiannis. Mr. Kefaliannis, good morning. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think that it is reasonable, but also in view of the interest of all of us in the road safety of the existing BOAK, and I think that all our efforts, which each of us is making from its standpoint, are, in fact, at the point of raising these problems. And this debate is taking place very well, because I think it really can get a result. I will also tell you that since the first moment we have taken over the fates of the Ministry, Mr Karamanlis and I have set the top priority, first of all, the implementation of the BOAK. This is a project which is emblematic, a project which should have been done for many years and which, unfortunately, has not gone ahead in the last four and a half years. Because, I repeat, when we took on the Ministry's fate a year ago, we actually found a thought on the part of this particular, a report of ideas. I also answered a previous question, as you remember - I think, last week - that all the studies that are needed will have been completed by November in order to get to the environment so that, from September to December, we can go to tender for the project. This does not mean, of course, that until the BOAK is implemented, which will take several years with regard to the piece of studies and construction, immediate solutions should not be provided on the existing road, on the existing road and, above all, problems should be tackled, as you say in your question, particularly road safety. Now, in answer to your questions, first of all as regards the Agia Pelagia node, as far as the study we received from us was concerned, it was not actually technically planned that there should be the lane of either deceleration or acceleration, depending on the direction that comes from Heraklion or whether it comes from Rethymnon. But this problem, Mr Colleague, has been dealt with immediately. In fact, I will table a decision on the Minutes before the Secretary-General, Mr Karayannis, in which he actually approves the execution of urgent and unforeseen additional tasks in connection with the construction of the backing wall you are talking about. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] So the part of the deceleration strip, that is, the direction from Heraklion to Rethymnon, is resolved by the work that will be carried out on the basis of this decision. With regard to the other section, that is to say, the acceleration lane from Heraklion to Rethymnon, we have asked the relevant departments of the Ministry to initiate the award procedure with a technical consultant, because it is a more difficult piece in relation to the deceleration lane, and some geotechnical and static studies must be carried out on the support wall. Once this study has been completed, in a very short time, we will go into a similar process, so that the back wall may also be made. I also want to say to you - and I think I should remind those who are listening to us - that according to this study, there was a road upgrade for the points from St. Pelagia to Heraklion and from Rethymno to St. Pelagia, which have already been completed and given for use for the inhabitants and visitors of the island. When these two interventions are made at this node, I think at least the part of Agia Pelagia will be complete. In order not to abuse your time, I will answer the other questions in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Kegeroglu, three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. On 20 August we had a meeting with the municipal authority and I was informed about the problem. On 24 August I tabled the question and admit that the Minister's response to the problem is in a positive direction. The previous decision, that is, the Secretary-General of Mr Karagiannis, is necessary. However, it is not enough because it does not solve the problem as a whole. You said that too, it will be necessary for a technical consultant to propose an appropriate solution. I think this could have already been done since the initial study. Inadmissibility of this gap, which exists. But what I would ask you to do is by short procedures, directly, in order to have an integrated hub. For the linking of Achladas, because the project is planned, while the title of the project is "Agia Pelagia and Achladas" - it is envisaged, finally, it says, from the memorial study - and there is no possibility from Rethymno to enter Agia Pelagia or from Agia Pelagia to Heraklion, you should probably be assigned a further study here. I would therefore like to tell you, as a whole, that a study will be commissioned which will provide for the completion of the Agia Pelagia node, the operation of a node, not a quay in Achlada and the security of the link to Lygaria. In Lygaria, it's a matter of security. As you mentioned the perspective of the major project, it is true that since 2012 there has been a tender. It is also true that a project that we had then auctioned as a government in your area, Eanti - Panormos or Exantimo - Panormos, was cancelled by Mr. Spirtzis. The money was transferred to another area project to give the concessionaires. A total of EUR 700 million was then granted as compensation decided by the Government for PATHE projects, Ionian Road, etc. It's now overripe. He's in danger of rotting. But the BOAK is most likely that there will be another route in this area. It cannot be done with the current route of a modern road safe. The Linopera region will be bypassed until Lygaria. There's no way. What do I mean by that? That the nodes you're building today are not useless for tomorrow. They will be very useful, they will be permanent, they will serve the region and they will certainly not be helped by the great work of the BOAK. We cannot allow anything to say: 'Since the BOAK has become, the conditions will be created for these nodes to be completed'. It's a different project for this region. I will submit to the minutes and the additional document sent by the mayor to you and to the Crete Development Agency which has the work, which raises the issues, and we ask for short, rapid and effective procedures, so that all this suffering does not continue. Since the BOAK may, with its respective address, indicate a temporary connection to the service until the extension of the project up to 31/12-2020 and may also be granted a new extension with these additional contracts, we may have completed until the tourist season, which we believe and hope is not with the problems that we had this year and, furthermore, the activities in the area will be served until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr Colleague, to avoid a mistaken impression, I told you that as far as the deceleration strip is concerned and the decision made by the Secretary-General, Mr Karayannis, the work can immediately be started. In fact, according to the information we have and from the services, it is work which may have been completed even within the month. So as far as this section is concerned, perhaps in one month the procedures for the part of the deceleration strip from Heraklion to St. Pelagia have been completed. With regard to the second part, namely the acceleration lane, because it has such geotechnical characteristics that need to be studied, the solution which I have told you before was chosen, so that the work can be started immediately and there. Now, with regard to the Achladian node, I would like to make some clarifications on this project and on the construction forecasts in this regard. Thus, according to the final study of the construction of the Achaia and Agia Pelagia nodes, as regards the issue of Achala, the interventions proposed in that study concern improving safety in this contribution and not the construction, as you said quite rightly, of a total unequal node. So, basically the work carried out was on the basis of the study. Well - I'm going to say - it was the study of that. Just a few days ago - I do not know if this is the same document that you tabled - we have actually received a document from the Mayor of Maleviziou, on 8 September in particular, which, for the first time, raises this issue to the Ministry and on this basis, we have already promoted it to the services and are awaiting their answers. I will tell you, if you will, that we have a little patience and come back to the Chamber here to reply to you on this document on the Achlada part. Now, with regard to Lygaria, I would also like to remind you that the Lygaria hemilum was not included in the work of the Achlad and Agia Pelagia nodes. In this matter, in essence, a road safety issue, whether it is resolved and how it will be resolved, will be followed by a tendering procedure for the road safety projects of the section of the BOAK, which is essentially about the Peri Galenus. It is from the Fodele to the Linoperama region and it is about a ten-km-kilometre-long project and a 4m-euro budget, which is about to join the EMEA. Therefore, because this is directly for the declaration, this issue will in fact be resolved. So I think the actions have been taken. The only outstanding point in fact is to see what is going to happen with the question of the Axle which awaits the answers from the Ministry's services. I believe that we also have answers there, in fact these three knots will be delivered to the inhabitants of the region and not only to visitors, in a way that is actually in the right direction of road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the question under Rule 134(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, number 21 and date of deposit of 14 May 2020, of MP B' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, with responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Public Business Plan', which was scheduled to be discussed on Monday, September 21, 2020, is postponed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister. The first question will be discussed at number 1014/7-9-2020 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Marag redundancies in private schools following the adoption of the new law on private education". Mr Arseni, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will read the post of the fired teachers from the Tsimoulis Schools in Peristeri. "Today morning we experienced an unprecedented situation, as we went to serve at school, which we served with all our powers for many years and to our surprise we found the door locked and no one opened us. We were shortly informed by the e-banking notices that in our accounts there was the first instalment of compensation for our dismissal, without any notice by the school chief and directors, who did not accept, after so many years of cooperation, to explain to us the rationale of their decision without taking the minimum moral obligation to inform us in time to seek a job. After an incredible psychological war of summer that we learned our dismissal from parents and students, today the rumors were confirmed. Some were given little explanation on the sidewalk, like unwanted persons. Judiciary clerks were looking for us in our homes and served us our dismissal completely cold and impersonal." This is the public post of the fired teachers. But looking, we saw that, although we were informed about the issue by the expatriates of the "Tsimoulis" Schools, it is a general matter. At the moment there are too many fired, over a hundred and fifty in private training. These dismissals are in many cases purely avenger to people who have claimed respect for their working hours, to be paid overtime, not to work on holidays and holidays, that is to say, respect for their rights. They had a defender of the law. They are now, with the management right given, with the right to redundancies, all of them are at the forefront and unleashed. Our Constitution protects working conditions in the private sector as well. There's a very simple reason. Because, in fact, it is either private or public education is a public asset. The Constitution deals with it in a uniform way, and therefore the conditions of protection in the private sector also exist in the public sector, so that we can finally have equal qualifications. Because with teachers who are blackmailed and at the risk of redundancies if a student copys and denounces it and does not like it in the administration, if a student gets a lower degree than the one who likes the administration, a training system is eventually set up where we have 'excellent' papers in public to compete with private education. It is a framework of total non-excellence, as you would describe. And because it is so flagrantly unconstitutional, the information we have is that it is not signed in interpretative circulars that there is no act of the administration so that there is a basis for appealing to the Council of State. I would like you to answer that as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Niki Kerameos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u12	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for your question which gives us the opportunity to break down some distorting impressions that have been raised in the public speech, precisely in relation to the recent law on private education. In your question, you ask for the withdrawal of a law based on a social media post, an anonymous complaint. I want to be clear. Of course, if there is anything wrong with what you are referring to, if there is indeed any documentation concerning this, the teacher will, of course, be justified. This is why there are enhanced procedures for the protection of teachers. I would like to point out that in the recently adopted law, there is a special mention that any termination of a contract of employment, in addition to the normal control of the subject of judicial review, is being examined in particular if the complaint is an unfair employer's reaction to behaviour in education lawful and contractual terms. However, you are asking, Mr Colleague, for a law to be withdrawn based on a social suspension of a law which has strengthened the essential autonomy of the school unit, to strengthen flexibility in the organisation and functioning of the school unit. The legislation to which you refer benefits those at the heart of our policy. Which ones? Primarily the students. Because I think that all of us are fighting for how our students will have a higher level and more quality education. This is a law that upgrades the training provided by introducing a system of evaluation of educational work, a school unit and teachers, allowing for an extended compulsory timetable that is more flexible, enables the school to define its managers and subordinates, draw up its internal rules of operation, broaden options for afternoon activities thanks to the flexibility in shaping the relevant programme. I now come to the teachers because you specifically referred to them. This law gives teachers further opportunities for additional employment and thus an increase in their income. It gives an increased protection status. How? It also enables them to work in additional educational activities after the end of their working hours with an additional fee. It enables them to work together in foreign language centres, in other places of education, again with an additional fee. All this for the benefit of teachers. It's been abolishing this two-year period. What was the case until first? Teachers were only hired for two years on fixed-term contracts. In two years, they're being fired. That was what the previous scheme said, because the contracts were for a certain period of time during the first two years. We are therefore saying that all these contracts should be converted into an indefinite period of time to give a greater horizon to the relationship between school and teachers. All this, Mr President, within a strict framework of control of legality. Of course, all this is strictly controlled, just as I have said before, and every teacher can use it, let alone invoke what you say. Then there is only a case to be justified, since obviously any complaint of a contract of employment based on a vengeance may not be lawful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. But you did not answer the critical last question I had seen that it had also caused your reaction to the question whether the interpretative circulars that have not been signed and are in your office, as we learn, two of the figures, are not signed precisely so that there is no first administrative act leading this law to the courts, the Council of State, and it will be broken down. I will answer a point of point to what you have said. This law has a basic purpose: To bend the resistance of teachers, to be truly teachers in private schools in such insecurity that they really obey the decisions of directors. It turns the private school into a private business. The school may be private, but school is a public good. It's not a business. It is something that the law allows it to operate under a private schoolmaster. The school must also offer a public asset on all sides, and it must also offer secure work, as the Council of State tells us. They are necessary for this parity. The Council of State tells us, in other words, that the administrative right of owners should be limited for reasons of public interest. Private schools do not provide vague good. Schools issue equal titles to the public. They issue scores equal to the public. The misuse of the good provided to private education, for example, overclassification, harms public pupils. Subsequently, Decision 622/2010 pointed out that job security is a crucial issue for the smooth functioning of education which is both a public or a private one. That's why this law will fall into the Council of State. And that is why it is crucial that you tell us what is going on with the interpretative circulars. Our information is you're not signing. You said, however, about reducing working hours and how it helps workers who want to do a supplementary job at a school this afternoon. In fact, you gave this privilege, but it is, above all, a privilege for schoolgirls. I'll be very clear. This is being used right now. We have at least fifteen complaints of coercion to resign from the full twenty-hour working hours per week and to go to limited hours, eleven hours. They are teachers and teachers, with a long service in these schools, who are paid far more accurately than a newly appointed one. These newly appointed ones were recruited to be more economically able to cover these hours. Whenever, in practice, it was a very convenient tool in the hands of school heads. The same applies in this case to redundancy payments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What happened two years ago? While two years were trialable, it was very difficult to substantiate a school chief not to permanentize the teacher after. Then, after two years, it was very difficult to dismiss. They were like permanent workers, as in the public sector. Because that is the basic concept again. Private school and public school are treated by our Constitution as something uniform. They are regulated uniformly both in their work and in other matters, because they produce the same result, a diploma which must be absolutely equal and a student who must have the same knowledge and education as a whole. That's what's being destroyed by your law. We call on you to take these administrative acts that will allow trade unions, such as the Federation of Private Educational Officers of Greece, OELE, to appeal to the Council of State, but also to the European institutions, as they have announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Mrs. Kerame, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, first of all, I would like to make it clear that this law ensures, on the one hand, state supervision over private schools, but at the same time, it also gives them freedom and autonomy to develop their action, to offer their educational work, to meet the demands and expectations of parents and students. You said about the two-year contracts. Mr Arseni, these contracts are for a certain period of time. What does that mean? That means they're two years old. It's for a certain period of time. That would mean a fixed-term contract. Therefore, on the presumption, the contract with the former regime was strictly for two years. You said - and I agree - that they were like permanent workers. And I ask: is that what we want? As a general rule teachers offer excellent work, they are friendly, they make huge efforts and so on. If there is an exceptional person who does not do this, who does not respond exactly to this need, his obligations towards school and the students, what should be done? Does she have to stay in school forever? So what do we say? We are establishing a regime, which specifically provides for the procedure for verifying the legality of the contract of employment. There is a check on the standard conditions (conservation of deadlines, procedures, etc.).However, there is also substantial control. And there, as I have told you, we have put an additional safety net in place. We have therefore said that particular attention must be paid to this, particularly if the complaint is an unfair employer's reaction to the conduct of private educationer who is lawful and compromised. The new law, therefore, provides major guarantees for private teachers in the control of legality. Now, in your question you are also referring to remuneration issues and surprised me why the law is very clear. Teachers are recruited on the basis of the nomination and receive a minimum of the remuneration paid by public teachers to the same degree and the same salary scale, but they can, of course, receive more remuneration than those of the public authorities, since they are providing additional services. Moreover, the teaching hours have not changed. It refers to specific hours per week, and as I have said, there is also the possibility and clearly provided for employment at the end of the calendar with additional remuneration and the possibility of employment in foreign language centres and other bodies. In addition to this in an institutional framework that is full, covers the educational system, it ensures its rights. But, Mr Arseni, I will close with this: we are doing all of this primarily for students, in order to provide through public and private education the best possible quality of education for our students. There are no interests of one and the other. This divisive rhetoric, Mr President - with all due respect - I think we are all over it together. Here we are all trying together to enhance education, public education, above all - our first concern is public education, how it will be upgraded - but also, of course, maintaining the state supervision of private education, but also the degrees of autonomy and flexibility that private education needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. And we go to the next one, in the first with number 8566/28-7-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vassilis Kokalis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Suspension of the operation of the Elassona Dairy School". Mr. Red, good morning! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u18	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you. Minister, this question has to do with the use of a comparative advantage enjoyed by the province of Elassona, the use of a comparative advantage by the State, by the Ministry of Education, by the Ministry of Rural Development and, more generally, by the Government. The 45% of our produced feta, Greek, is produced in this province, that is, almost half the feta - the PDO - in Greece is produced in the province of Elassona. So you realize that taking advantage of this comparative advantage is very important. In the reasonable and fair demand of all the inhabitants of the province of Ellassona and the institutions, the previous government has started cowardly - it has taken certain concrete steps. In 2016, by specific decision, she set up a cheese specialty in the 2nd public IEK of Larissa and cowardly - cowardly this section - to allow me to express her expression "Galactic School" - she worked with eighteen students in 2018-2019. Their practical exercise was in the cheese shops in the area. Suddenly we saw that in the 2019 ministerial decision, this specialty had been removed from the 2nd IEK Larissa, the dairy-cheese technique, thus the specific IEK, the dairy school as it is said, had not operated in 2019-2020. Let me say that for what can become a reality, this dream of all the inhabitants of the region, there is a need for assistance from other bodies clearly. As good as your intentions are, we need the support of the municipality, the region and the participation of the Ministry of Rural Development. But you must be present today and say whether you really want the dairy school to be reopened, because there are many issues of current, procedural and incidental nature, such as what is to do with the Ministry of Rural Development and the facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Red. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Kerameos. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Kokalis, for your question concerning the Elassona Dairy School, we have the following elements: Elassonas Municipality under its number 7607/2018 document, requested the Director of the DIK Larissa specialty "Dairy Tyrokomos" in the city of Elassona. In this letter, the municipality pointed out that, on the one hand, it had found the appropriate space, which has been allocated to the municipality by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the operation of a training structure in the dairy sector, on the other hand, that it had provided funding for the full reform of the area and that the necessary equipment was provided. This was already the case under the Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation Operational Programme. So she actually joined the programming of the 2nd DIK Larissa and started its operation in the Municipality of Elassona from 2018-2019. However, this area was never granted by the Municipality of Ellassona to the 2nd DIEC Larissa, as it was institutionally due, thus operating for both the practice and the laboratory part of the training at the premises of the EPAEL. Elassonas, however, is completely deprived of a dairy laboratory. Therefore, in conjunction with the gradually increasing flow of students - twenty-nine began and completed the fourteenth-year course - the administration of the 2nd DIK Larissa did not propose this specialisation for the period 2019-2020 and 2020-2021. I must point out here that the specialities implemented by the IMIs are proposed by their administrations, taking into account the needs of the local labour markets, the development needs of the regions, the possibilities of cooperation with local bodies, the local potential for implementing training such as spaces, trainers, workshops, the provision of practical training, the existence of interest by candidates and other criteria. Each DEIEC, therefore, autonomously, proposes the qualifications proposed, taking into account precisely the specific criteria. For example, this specialty in the period 2019-2020 was implemented in DIEK Kozanis, Ioannina, Carditsa, Ironokastro, Amphichia, Zitsas and so on. The proposals are administrative, there was no such proposal and there was neither the necessary infrastructure nor the interest it appeared to have had in order to continue this specialization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Mr. Red, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, moving the responsibility - perhaps there is - to local bodies, instead of a very clear answer, instead of a statement of notification if the Ministry really wants the operation of dairy schools, I think that it is not right to deal with the matter. What were the criteria? Proving that the dairy school is a major project, I think that it cannot stand up to logic, to say that the institutions do not want it, that young children do not want it. Is it possible when this area has such a great comparative advantage? The point is that this work to be carried out requires everyone to be helped. I said it in my protology. Do you, as Ministry of Education, have said that the funding has been interrupted, since the Municipality of Elassona is going to take the necessary steps, since the Region of Thessaly is also dealing with the issue, are you now prepared, do you want the Elassona Dairy School to operate and give the region a real impetus? Are you prepared to discuss with the institutions - not this year, which has been lost, at least the next year - to work properly and as the Elassona Dairy School should? These are the questions that the Ministry of Education should answer. We know that there are likely to be omissions. The point is that the school started, Minister. Seventeen students? Yeah, with seventeen students. With problems? Yeah, trouble. It does not make sense, however, because there were problems in the facilities, to abandon our aim. It is not an excuse to give up a breath target for the region because there were problems, even on a temporary basis. Today, can you get a seat if the Ministry of Education really wants the Elassona Dairy School to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Ma'am, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u24	Mr Kokalis, I think that this question highlights in the most emphatic way the need to reform the framework of vocational education and training as a whole, a reform that comes in the next few months in Parliament. I want to be clear. We want training schools, we want DIKs which really meet the needs of the labour market. We want DIEK to which there is sufficient demand, but I say again that there should be a response. It is not a matter of this specific specialty, Mr. Kokalis, when it is already implemented in the DIEK Kozanis, in Yannina, in Karditsa, in Sidirokastro, in Amphilouchia. It's not a matter of specific expertise. It is a question of whether local society and labour market needs are specifically served by this speciality, whether or not there is a demand. I therefore believe that this question - which I thank you for - highlights precisely the great need for the reform of the framework of vocational education and training. The next time, at the next Ministerial Council, a new bill is presented, which changes fully and provides for an overall approach to vocational education and training at all levels, level of qualification three, four and five. One key element of the change is that the main element is the detection of the real needs of the labour market, and then the adaptation of all curricula on the basis of these needs of the labour market. I think, Mr Cooke, that we will agree on this that it is very important that all these schools have an impact on the labour market. The aim is not to maintain structures without equipment, infrastructure, staffless, without students, without demand and without a reflection - if these apply, not in this case, I say in general - to the labour market. The aim is to give our young people a breakthrough. The aim is, therefore, to offer that training that will have a real impact on the labour market. And that is what is being attempted by the new bill that will be put into public consultation in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, from 14-9-2020: Criminal case law concerning those who were present during the period 23-9-2015 to 9-7-2019: (a) Minister of Health Andreas Xanthos and (b) Deputy Minister of Health Pavlos Polakis. We continue with the second with number 8410/21-7-2020 question from the circle of petitions - questions by MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr.Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Unjustly blocking a degree from AUG/2019”. Mr. Ahmet, good morning. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u26	Good morning, Mr. President. Minister, my question concerns unfairness, and I can also say an illegal exception or the exclusion of minority teachers from the notice aimed at primary education. As you know, Minister, minority teachers with Law4310/2014 have the following right: After graduating and completing their training program, their degree is of a dual nature, i.e. they have the right to register on both lists, both in the IP73 sector and in the IP70 sector. In fact, Article 15 of Law No 4282 and Article 68 of Law No4310 give this possibility very clearly. The above is also confirmed by the reply of your predecessor, the then Minister, Mr Gavroglou, where I had asked a written question and had answered this law, whose reply I shall submit to the Minutes of the House. Now what's the matter? Although the minority teachers had this right, unfortunately for some reason, even though their specific degree, which had been completed, had been passed on by the local primary education directors on the part of the local education directors, but we have retrospectively seen this degree being removed from the VMS, and a reply was given in complete pretext on the grounds that, since the AACC notice was not provided for in parentheses, it was therefore legally equivalent and equal, which is why we did not "go through", they were excluded from this exemption. And we ask you today, despite the existence and the letter of the law, despite the written assurance of your predecessor that this is the case, why has this degree been arbitrarily removed from the OPSD? Why were these minority teachers excluded? And in any case, in case they are vindicated, what will come about? What are you gonna do? Will you make a new ministerial decision so that they will be included in the new tables or will you lead them to the street of the courts to go to the Council of State? They will naturally be entitled to non-implementation of the law and will afterward seek justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Ahmet. The Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Niki Kerameo, will answer. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. As you know, the legislative framework for the permanent appointments and recruitment of temporary alternates, both for general education and for special education and training, was laid down by Law 4589/19 of 29 January 2019. This law stipulates that the AEI degree is understood as a diploma in a university or technological field of higher education. The 1GE Award includes the category of IP73 of Minority Minority Schools in Thrace, for the inclusion in which the notice requires a degree from the Special Educational Academy of Thessaloniki or the Municipal Education Department of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, for members of the Muslim community which have been introduced from the academic year 2011-2012 to 2016-2017, since during their studies they have been successfully evaluated in at least seven teaching subjects - courses of specific cognitive areas or the Municipal Education Department of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, for members of the Muslim minority of Thrace, which entered the framework of the additional admissions and have been successfully evaluated. In particular, it concerns graduates of the Special Pedagogical Academy of Thessaloniki, who have successfully completed the process of assimilating their degree to that of the Pedagogical Departments of IOI or hold a degree from the Pedagogical Department of Democritus, and therefore also the formal qualifications for integration into the IP70 industry. The Directorates of Education were now responsible for controlling the documentation provided and for registering qualifications in the integrated primary and secondary education management system. A competent body responsible for the implementation of the evaluation process, as you know, in order of priority by industry and the specificity of candidates, is the independent authority of the Higher Staff Selection Board, which also issued the relevant 1GI notice and subsequently carried out it. In fact, the temporary evaluation tables of candidates, including the IP70, have been announced by the teachers concerned, and the issue of the final assessment tables is expected to be examined by the teachers concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Mr. Ahmet, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u30	Madam Minister, you are now telling us in your reply a positive and a point which you leave in the future. The good news is that you do repeat the letter of the law, in other words you agree with our question and say that when a candidate has the formal qualifications to join the IP70 sector, it is also classified in both successful tables. We therefore have no doubt that the minority teachers, having finished their simulation, had the right formally and had to the competent bodies of the primary management, from the OPSYD, to have passed their degrees. In other words, if the law had been implemented and had been passed on to the OPSYD, today we would not have been here, the teachers would not have asked the ASP, which has not yet been answered, nor would they have objected as you said in your prototype. But now that the provisional tables and these minority teachers have been announced, they are in anguish and are asking for the implementation of the law, what is going to happen? You're telling us there's going to be an answer to the objection. If it is positive - and we hope it will be positive and it must be positive under the law - it must be included in the provisional tables, but quickly to end this process. Or if it's negative - like the primary education department, which looks up and contradicts and took it negative - then what happens? Are we going to have to go to court? So the principle of equality before the law will be applied, Minister? The philosophy - I ask you again - of Mr von Wogau. 4310 will be applied or not? And you, in your statement in your protology, do not question that. Why should the minority teacher suffer this suffering? Why did he get into the OPSYD and come back? Can it not by a simple, administrative decision, with a ministerial decision on your part to resolve the matter now, and we have to wait for the objection to be issued?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Kerameos has the floor for three minutes for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I fully understand your question and would like to tell you my own positive intention of dealing with this issue, which is complex, with an absolute sense of fairness and equality for all. There is a specific procedure under which the notice is to be implemented. That's exactly what's running from S.H.I.E.L.D. The AACC has issued provisional tables as planned, and there is a thorough procedure of objections, which is once again provided for in the AACC procedure. And I have to tell you - from the cooperation I have with the AACC - that they are really doing excellent work under adverse conditions and to carry out so far and to conclude provisional tables, but also in the procedure for examining objections. So within the framework of the law and procedure provided for by the AACC, these objections will obviously also be considered and we are here to assist in any way we can in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-18-S1-commons.u34	With the consent of the House at 10: 18 the sitting on Monday, September 21, 2020, at 12:30, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
