ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a written document, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that today, Wednesday 14 September 2020, two topical questions will be discussed, and two topical questions will not be discussed respectively. The first, with number 35/9-10-2020, topical question by MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Immigration and Asylum, on the subject: "Misalistic proposals to create closed structures for migrants, refugees and asylum seekers on the islands" will not be discussed, due to a blockade by the MP. Also, the second question under number 54/12-10-2020 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The prolonged restrictive measures in certain prefectures also impose, directly and directly and indirectly, support measures for enterprises, professionals, farmers, workers, unemployed and vulnerable social groups", will not be discussed in consultation. Now we will discuss the first with number 34/9-10-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.George Vartis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'At the immediate need to speed up the compensation of the farmers of the Municipality of Oniades for 'Janu'. The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides. Mr. Barry, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u3	Minister, I imagine I do not have to describe 'January' or other similar phenomena. Even Mr Mitsotakis admits that there are such phenomena and climate change, while in the run-up to SYRIZA, this is another conversation. Now I came here to tell you that the "January" with its destructive effects also affected regions of Aetolokarnania, such as the region of Lower Acheloos and as is also the regions of Galata and Kryoneri. Some of these areas were not more than four, five kilometers from the eye of the cyclone. Kefalonia is across the street if you've been there. We had damage to cotton, rice and olives. The rice fell down and the replanting effect observed. Even you from Athens, and you might not have visited a rice zone, would have seen that we had a total disaster in these cases. The same happened in cotton and olives. The olives preceded another disaster, not natural, as you know, Minister. After the downsizing of the prices, the creation of a huge economic and social problem in the area of Aetolokarnania, where the largest quantity of Kalamata olives is produced with the corresponding quality, "Janus" came and tied up as the cherry on the cake. Many words are poverty, Minister, and from poverty there is enough down there. Two questions I'm going to put to the first stage, to keep time, if necessary, for dentistry. First of all, will the producers be compensated immediately? Did the immediate recording take place, as is the necessary condition? For the Kalamon olive tree, tell us, if possible, with two words and honesty, if nothing is going to happen. No more abstract words and bold promises. And secondly, Mr Minister, you know that cotton and rice are under the condition of linked compensation. Will you minimize or zero, as you have done in other regions, the minimum quantity needed for the linked aid?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bored. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I will tell you that with regard to the disasters caused by the rainfall and windstorm on 18 and 19 September 2020 in the wider area of the Regional Unit of Aetolokarnania, particularly in the wider area of the Municipality of Sacred City of Mesology, in which the former Municipality of Oenades belongs to the delta of Acheloos, on various crops, such as rice, cotton, corn, maize, olive groves, olive groves, the necessary labels were made by ELGA services, thirty-eight announcements were made and nine hundred ninety-seven statements were submitted by producers. There was a deadline for the submission of the 15-day declaration by producers, which expired on 5 October. At the request of producers, in particular, a period was granted until 12 October for the submission of this declaration in order to enable the producers affected to proceed with their declarations. Estimates have been started with a step of 10 geotechnics and these estimates will be completed at the end of October, early November 2020. Therefore, the value-for-efficiency work carried out by ELGA will be completed. Of the insurance cover, small losses were also caused by losses of livestock. We have two statements in ovine and caprine animals. In addition, we have damages covered by the State Aid Regulation from these areas. They are identified in fixed vegetable capital and in stored products. Sixteen fixed capital declarations were submitted - stables, warehouses, equipment - four vegetable declarations - mainly olive trees - and a declaration of stored products, which have been completed. A total of twenty initial claims were submitted for losses by producers. What are we going to do about their direct compensation? According to our programme, on 19 October, we will have a legislative initiative on Monday, which will enable us to make the following: firstly, to pay 100% of the compensation - not the percentages currently set by the ELGA regulation - to producers and, secondly, to give us an advance - and I have said a generous advance - on aid. According to this programme, this advance will be paid in mid-October, i.e. essentially in the next period. Perhaps the next Tuesday and Wednesday will start payment of the aid, such compensation, but it will be an advance. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would ask that I have five seconds, Mr President, and I will tell the rest in my dentistry. Subsequently, the sum of the allowances shall be paid by the end of January or February 2021. As you know, the normal procedure for paying ELGA compensation is to be paid in June next year. That is, normally, if we did not proceed with this acceleration, the compensation would be 65% in June 2021 and 35% in December 2021. This speeding up, therefore, is coming until the end of October, and then the payment of the compensation will be completed by the beginning of 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Baroness, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u7	The legislative initiative, Minister, is awaiting it. As far as I am concerned, the amounts required for compensation are not dramatic, so there is a possibility that the advance will be paid, as you said, in October, and the rest of the compensation, because it was an exceptional fact, it was not common, such as the ones that can happen every year and the ELGA responded. I noticed something, Minister. You didn't say anything about the Kalamon olive. Nothing. At times various, such as withdrawal prices, have been heard, aid from the Rural Development Programme with a ceiling of 7 000. Then something else came up, cornea support, etc. Finally, Minister, do you not give six Joker's numbers to producers, because other kinds of aid do not see? Or do you think they're not worthy of support? The situation was, however, formed in a emblematic product, exportable product. If we repeat last year's harvest and this year's harvest, Minister, the problem will be structural. We will face a prospect of a direct risk that producers will leave the fields. Where? In Kalamnon olives, in the most powerful product, in the superfood, to say so, let's see it here in Athens. And can I tell you something else? And in the round green olive, where the harvest started this year, there is a 30% drop in prices to 35%. In other words, the problem of the two types of olives comes together and have multipliers unfavourable or even tragic results for a people's income which has been supported by many people, Minister, during the economic crisis, the previous one, we now have the next. It was a touchdown. And now we're being called to do what? What can producers do? Turn to where? To abandon what product? With what courage to go to the field to throw away fertilizer, continue cultivation when they go to sell and sell at cost prices? What motive does the producer have to continue to cultivate this emblematic product, which is a trademark for the country's exports?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Bored. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u9	I will continue with what you are asking, because in your question you are making a reference to the text on the Kalamata issue, but in your questions you do not raise the matter with us. I'll tell you something about it, I'm just telling you that my answer is focused on what you're asking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u10	Okay, because there's a conversation going on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u11	Okay, I understand, but don't blame me for that. I mean, I answer what you're asking me. If you were to ask me about the Kalamon olive, I'd tell you to talk about the Kalamon olive. You've asked me about the disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u12	Okay, on account of what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u13	Very good. So I've answered you in this part. Let me say another thing, which I consider to be important for producers, to the extent that they are watching us. Those who have suffered damages to matters which are not part of the ELGA compensation scheme should, of course, personalise their file and therefore go ahead - that is, you, of course, do not have much, I am talking about stables, warehouses, equipment, which must be put into programmes to cover them - make personalised statements supported by the relevant documents in order to be able to compensate them. So that's a piece of it. Because you said that damages are not many, damages from 'Janus' - damages compensated by the ELGA - exceed EUR 100 million. Therefore, perhaps in Itolo-Carnania it is not so great, but the damage from 'January' was too great. It would be impossible for the ELGA to pay them with its budget if there was no decision to strengthen it from the reserve and from the regular budget. We must therefore know that what I have announced is possible thanks to the sensitivity, directity and command given by the Prime Minister, in order to strengthen the ELGA in an excellent legal way that does not raise issues. And, perhaps, there will also be a need for additional legislation to be adopted by Parliament on Monday so that we can make such payments. You're asking me in your question about the ties. This is indeed a crucial issue. There is no question of it. Where there are disasters, there is no requirement that the minimum quantities be delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u14	Here in particular, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u15	Yes, I answer you to the disasters, though. In those who have suffered destruction, therefore, there is no requirement that the minimum quantities required by the associated quantity be delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u16	But in Karditsa, you chose another...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u17	No, it's the same in Cardinal. It'll be the same everywhere. We said that to those who have been destroyed everywhere, they will not have to pay the connection. As regards the Kalamata olives for which you ask me, we have a request to the General Accounting Office. We have prepared a state financial aid measure, the authorisation of which is pending in the General Accounting Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next is the third with number 48/12-10-2020, a top-stage question from the Piraeus II Group of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Let now stop the redundancies of the experienced staff of ELGA through judicial decisions". Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u19	As far as the assessment of the huge disasters by the Mediterranean cyclone 'Janus' in vegetable and livestock capital, bees and infrastructures which, as you said before, are more than EUR 100 million seems to be a great disaster. So we need geoponets and veterinarians immediately and quickly. However, instead of that, we see that on 29 September there is a court decision that says that twelve geopollutants from ELGA need to be fired, that is, exactly where these people need and of course they have been working on the body for years. These officials remained in office on the basis of court rulings which they had justified. However, against these decisions, the then administration of ELGA, the previous government, SYRIZA, has led them back to the court of appeal, although it promised them that it would bring about some change. This is a staff with very great experience, specialising in the assessment of losses and risk losing their jobs, and it covers standing and constant needs in a subordinated agency, whose volume of work is constantly increasing. We consider it provocative at a time when disasters are recorded every year and when there is a lack of staff, which is reflected, if you will, in the delays in assessing damages and in the compensation of farmers in need of compensation, in the process of dismissal of workers through the judicial process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What we are asking you to do is to keep the geopolitics of unemployment, following the appeals made by the previous administration of the ELGA, and to strengthen the institution with permanent staff, both geotechnical and administrative, in order to ensure a more direct record of damages and compensation. We don't ask much. This is something that both farmers and geotechnics and operators are demanding. These are requests that are very reasonable and very realistic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u21	On the first point raised by Mrs Manolakou, the description of the issue is as it does. So you are well aware that there is a decision of the appeal court judged on this matter. The administration of the ELGA commits and is obliged to execute the judgments. So there's no other way of doing this. With regard to the questions you have raised, the procedure has been followed and the recruitment of a hundred and fifty-seven people under an eight-month contract is under way. There has been a relevant decision on 7 August 2020 by an act of the Ministerial Council. In other words, there is the act number 33/06 of the Ministerial Council, as is the recruitment of seventy-eight geotechnics by the extraordinary procedure of Law 2190, in order to meet additional needs - the procedure referred to in Article 20 - to the regional branches of the ELGA. There will also be on Monday, as I said, legislation, which is linked to the 'January', which will regulate the issues of overtime and pay for those who have been involved in additional assessments and have contributed substantially to the efforts made by the ELGA. There is now a process of dealing with the 'Jan' and there is, of course, also a process of recruiting five people who have moved and is moving. They're specialties. They are two informatics individuals and three in Administrative - Finance persons to meet the organization's constant and constant needs. That's all about planning recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u23	It's unfair, Minister. It's unfair because this staff is working hard. Already at the moment they are moving from areas to disasters from the 'January'. They've given their souls. And I say this because ten years ago, first-time law had been justified, and even the decision made by the ELGA administration to reinstate them had to be reinstated, because it considered that they were necessary and that they covered constant and constant needs. That's what it looks like. Until today, for six years, they've been constantly working. And indeed, the primary decision was also punished. If they were not hired, ELGA had to pay them EUR 100 a day. It was, in fact, about fifty persons. Since there was a delay in the adoption of the decision, many of them had found another job. But those who have agreed to re-entry, to come back, I inform you that they have a great deal of qualifications. It is not only the experience of valued work in this six-year period. They have not only degrees in the Agricultural School, they have both postgraduate and foreign languages but also other degrees in finance. And yet their previous administration went to the court of appeal. Their decision is, in fact, flying like squeezed lemon worms and you are lifting your hands up, when you can take measures, bringing an amendment that you should have brought in immediately and quickly and set it up. And we say this because their permanentisation as an indefinite one, as are other officials, is not a financial cost, since these people are already being paid. There is also a legal precedent with the cleaners and there is also the ELGA reserve from the farmers' insurance contributions to be paid. They need to. They're not begging the job. They need to because they have experience and especially in these difficult situations they can yield multiples. You may be announcing recruitment. When will these people be trained in the appreciation work? You've got ready people. And I want to tell you this: what is the situation in the ELGA? You know her very well. The geopollutants are two hundred eighty-seven and the veterinarians twenty-eight. Each year, an average of sixty seasonals are recruited. So the number you gave us, the hundred and fifty - seven, is that they are hired for some time. The ELGA has the following attribute: It is not an acceptance body for mobility. The result is for people to leave under pressure of intensive work with stress. Only in 2020, they left with mobility or pension for forty geopollutants, i.e. about 18%. Therefore, you cannot dismiss experienced geoponders. We ask you to get it back, because it needs permanent staff useful and experienced, and right now it will be not only unfair, but also inhumane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u25	We have proceeded with a series of crises concerning the adequacy of the workers concerned, their necessity, the time they work and said various things. It may be that way and we would have no objection to accept it. You know, there is a little problem called 'a state-owned decision' and it is not a good example of administration, on the contrary, it is the definition of maladministration that you are saying to me, that is to say, that I should bend recruitment legislation, all recruitment legislation, to bend it down, to circumvent a number of provisions regulating the issues of recruitment in the public sector, in order to circumvent a judicial decision. This is something that cannot be done, something that will be done in general - and what does that mean? - for any worker who makes a judicial claim, for all workers - it will not be done especially for those fourteen - and it is a fixed general position, that regardless of the validity or validity of the contract, regardless of whether a contract was a fixed-term contract or was not a fixed-term contract, regardless of whether a contract was an indefinite term, but was not permanent, then any person who acquires any employment in the public sector will then remain within it. If you recommend this as a general position and as a general policy, that means changing the whole mechanism of recruitment to the public. That's a conversation. But you realise that by means of these legal provisions and the specific judicial decision, it is not a question of whether they are good or bad workers - as you know, we have not appealed in the end, it is not our administration that appealed, but the previous administration - but our administration is bound by the outcome of the judicial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Minister. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed and we are adjourning the sitting at 12 noon, so that we can continue with the special agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Before entering the specific agenda, I would like to make a few announcements to the House. The first communication reads as follows: The Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs, State and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled on 12-10-2020 a draft law on “Debt regulation and Provision of Second Opportunities”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, the 9-10-2020 criminal case law concerning the former Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulo Polakis. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics also submits its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Finally, my colleague and Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, is calling for a short-day absence abroad in order to represent her party, Mer25, and the Progressive International, as an international observer of the national elections in Bolivia from 15 October to 22 October 2020. Does this House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u28	The House granted the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rules 61 and 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Varoufakis and Mr Ilhan Ahmet. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 7 October 2020, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Ioannis Varoufakis' immunity should not be lifted. Also, by the same committee, the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, the report was announced on 7 October 2020, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Ilhan Ahmed should not be allowed to waive immunity. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, this procedure has triggered the new electronic roll-call system. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. A letter of vote has been sent to Parliament's groups for those Members who wish to vote and cannot attend the sitting because of restrictive measures against the coronary. The first case concerns the Secretary of Mera25, Mr Giannis Varoufakis. The accusation, as has been made, refers to you on the lists distributed, so we will now listen to the President and, of course, if there is a Member who wishes to speak, he will be given the floor in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor. I think five minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. In our view, we have a case-file which, if not rejected as inadmissible, as constitutional, moral and politically unacceptable, will affect parliamentarianism, undermine the Constitution and poison our political culture. That was the message of the memorandum, which I tabled to the Ethics Committee. You will allow me to submit it to the minutes of the House for there to be. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr Yiannis Varoufakis presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to thank all the colleagues, all the parties who participated in the Committee on Ethics, other than the Greek Solution, who agreed and proposed to reject this case-file as a political point of view. Today, in plenary, we are giving an opportunity to all together to support not me, but parliamentaryism and basic principles, which must be governed by it. We may formally vote in favour or against the lifting of immunity, but the essential thing is not to lift any immunity. The question - very specifically - is the self-evident and abstract right to free movement of Members for the exercise of our parliamentary duties. The case-file, before you, is tantamount to questioning this undeniable freedom of the Member. I take the floor today in plenary because, on those days of April - May, my constitutional, political and moral right to come to this Chamber in order to place me as a Member of Parliament and as President of Parliament. As many as political differences as we have, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you understand the importance of questioning this constitutional, moral and political right of a Member. In other words, the constitutional rights of each and every one of us, irrespective of party position, are questioned in this case. I am starting with the constitutional right, as I have an obligation, which this case-file is affecting. You all know, but we must say again that the Constitution ensures that Members are entitled to carry out their duties in a manner which cannot be confined by the executive and, obviously, by the Security bodies whose authority is supervised and controlled by the Government. In particular, Article 62 of the Constitution stipulates that as long as the parliamentary term, the Member - I go directly to what matters, I am not talking about arresting or imprisonment, etc. - it is not restricted without permission from the House. It's over. That is why the Government quite rightly in the Ministerial Decision of 22 March, with which we had the restrictive measures, clearly states that this restriction does not include members of the Government, Ministers and MPs, to carry out their duties. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means one thing: once the parliamentary identity has been demonstrated, no police or port police body has the right to prevent the movement of a Member, either during the period of validity of the restrictive measures or in other periods. It's over and out. The view heard by a particular Member - who fortunately voted - that the police or port authority should check if, on a certain basis, the Member is engaged in his activities, he is simply creepy for two reasons: first, he is overwhelming on Article 62 of the Constitution. Second, think about that. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen. I say that from my heart. This puts the woman or man of the port or police into an incredibly difficult position. We leave our people, our officers, open to unbearable pressures, guided by political purposes, when we tell them that they have an obligation or a right to check whether the Member's move falls within the competence of the Member. Can you imagine a Greece, which the Security Councils judge during your travels if you exercise and how you carry out your parliamentary duties? I don't think you want to live in such a country. I continue with the moral right, for my specific movements, not in general, that this case-file is affecting. The legality, ladies and gentlemen, is not moral. I would not conceive of using parliamentary immunity to go on vacation to Mykonos or Aegina, and let me have this Constitution. The restrictive measures, ladies and gentlemen, have taken my wife and I in our home in Aegina. Our aim was to stay there, as all citizens had to do, without even moving from our home, if we could. I want to remind you - I am sure you remember - that I was the only political leader, the only President who stood up here at this step - and even before I came here by letter to the President of Parliament - and asked the House to operate in full composition with a teleconference. I said that if we at Mera25, a new small party, can have central committees and all by teleconferencing, it can certainly be done by the Greek Parliament, as the European Parliament does. Mer25's proposal for a continuous function in full composition of Parliament and the right, namely, that would give me a teleconference in the House, was rejected. I'm not going to comment on it. Incidentally, as MARA25, we are reintroducing this proposal, because we see that the coronary does not leave us as quickly as we would like and it is not right that this House to remain in office. We should - it is our proposal, not at the moment, of course, come back with this proposal - to allow all Members in full composition to participate by means of teleconferencing. We don't know the second wave when it's over. I'm closing the parentheses. I now come to the day mentioned in the case-file on 8 April. I remember because I couldn't speak with teleconferencing, I took the ship from Aegina to Piraeus. I came to the House Hall. I was also present, if you remember, with regard to the provision of Mera25 for a 10% recession, when at that time the government was talking about a recession of between 0% and 3%, when the Bank of Greece insisted on 4% by June. That evening, after returning to my home, the media, and in particular the channels, served in a storm of false press reports: "Varoufakis violated the quarantine and went on vacation in Aegina." For a five-minute TV "antibarific" slanderers journalists - and some of them excellent - misled the public, saying, for example, that the citizens had to go to the house declared in their E1. If that were the case, ladies and gentlemen, you understand that the government's restrictive measures would be abolished. Half the Greek population does not live where it is declared in E1. So, the students from Komotini should go home? Unfortunately, there have also been two ministers who have been dragged from the opportunity to hit Varoufakis or Opposition, who have come to tell me to apologise. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that there were a lot of voices approved by law, which recommended that I sue, in particular, on a matter: when I arrived at the port of Aegina, the port of Aegina, beside him had a mayor cranial - and in a particularly insulting way, he asked me for my papers. It reminded me of other times. ‘Your cards.’. I take down the car window and give him my parliamentary identity, with the exact words: "I show you my parliamentary identity, in case you didn't recognize me." He says to me: "Your E1, my lord." I say to him: 'I am sorry, according to the Ministerial Decision, this restrictive measure does not apply to Members'. He tells me: “It is true. You're not going anywhere." I say to him, "I'm sorry, you're wrong." I went five meters ahead of my car, sat in line with all the other cars, sprayed the car and left. The case-file, unfortunately, is presented otherwise. I didn't sue anyone. And I'll tell you why I didn't sue anyone. Firstly, because I deplore the criminalisation of political controversy, even when it is based on defamation due to political purposes. Secondly, in order to protect the men and women of the Port Corps, since their supervisors have not protected them. I'm really gonna say this one more time from my heart. I shall end with the political right to ask you to reject this case-file as unacceptable. Some colleagues in the committee and in the social media have also referred to the MERA25 election programme, where we propose the abolition of parliamentary immunity, striving to present me as politically inconsistent, that I call for my immunity not to be lifted, despite the fact that in MERA25 in our election programme - and we are proud of it - we are proposing the abolition of parliamentary immunity. They won't be able to present us as inconsistent. Merra25's political consistency remains unstable. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I would not consider hiding behind parliamentary immunity for any charge against me was civil or criminal liability. At Mer25 we propose the lifting of parliamentary immunity. We have never proposed lifting the right to free movement of Members in the exercise of our parliamentary duties. Furthermore, I would remind you of something that applies to us Members, which is not the case for the citizens. When we accept a complaint as parliamentarians, even the most unlikely lawsuit goes to the Ethics Committee and ends in plenary. Ethicals. That's not a mistake. I'm not criticizing. I'm just observing it. On the contrary, for citizens of non-parliamentary, unfounded cases can be filed. This case-file is not only unfounded, but as I have said before, it affects the Constitution. Merra25's proposal to abolish parliamentary immunity comes under the pretext of protecting all citizens from badly-regulated, irresponsible complaints that simply make justice difficult. To say this simply, I am not asking you today for something that we in Mera25 do not propose to apply to all citizens. Rejection by a preamble of any anti-constitutional legally inadmissible sues or case-file. Finally, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that at this time parliamentaryism is being affected. Despite the grand judicial condemnation of the Golden Dawn, parliamentarianism continues to be questioned by poisonous ideas that the Golden Dawn has embroiled in our society. At such a juncture our best response, regardless of our party and political differences, is the function of Parliament to return to full composition with teleconference, as we have proposed since March. On the other hand, there is our common stance on micro-party purposes which ultimately affect parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Is there a colleague here who wants to speak? Oh, no. We shall now proceed to the second case concerning Mr Ilhan Ahmet. You know what the charges are. This is a slandering defamation of some of his compatriots who had been sentenced to a corresponding suit he had committed. The charge is now they sued him for slandering. That's the story. Mr Ilhan Ahmet was presented to the House. You want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u32	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u33	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I shall speak from my point of view, and I will not deal very much with this House. First of all, I have had the honour of representing Thrace, especially the minority, for three years now, of course, giving a great battle in this area to protect the Constitution, the Greek laws and, of course, the interests of all citizens in the region. Mr President, I will not bore this House. I just want the House to know a few things which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, although I have said so in the committee. I have accepted as a'minor' MEP - although I do not like this term, but in fact I come from the minority and have the honour of representing it - a great deal of mud and a lot of slander. I can say that I received a cannibalism in the media, mainly in social media, because of my political views, because of my attitude and my tonights on various political issues. What did I do? I appealed, of course, to Greek justice. Greek justice has irrevocably condemned one of them, the other for excitement, the other for slandering and, indeed, one of my messengers today - who did so for a diversion - and apologied to the court for not ratifying his sentence and revoking what he said and officially accepted it. What he said has no limits, and I am ashamed to say them myself. For example, I will only say what one of them says in a post: "If we meet him on the road, we invite him to lynch him. Shall we go for a hard linen?' To be lynched for my political views. One of the messengers says: "When the last homogeneous congressman, on the day he hangs himself with the intestines of the last imam...", I apologise to this House, but to understand the extent, I will not say the word "fascism", the attack we accept, "they will become a happy minority". Another writes other things, the other calls “November 17”, saying: “Many politicians, lawyers and judges would be fair if there were “17 November”. I, too, - elected MP - what have I done for all this? When a journalist asked me on the radio: "Mr. Ilhan, what do you have to say about all the incredible attack you take and yet take from all parties a very large number of votes of your fellow citizens?", I said: "Hey, people serve political purposes, manipulate." That's what I said. Nothing else. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that I am not afraid to face justice. Clearly. On the other hand, we must safeguard the prestige and honour of the political world. Another is to criticise - as strict as it may - and yet more is the cannibalism that benefits human values, while sometimes jeopardises pluralism and freedom of expression, undermining one of the basic principles of our democracy. I would like to read from the book of my constituent and prescriber, Euripidis Stylianides, about the Minutes of the House, what it says about Article 62, so that Greek citizens also understand what the disrepute of Members means. He writes: ‘The impunity protects the Member from post-military or political persecutions of third parties, who could deliberately expose him to politically, serving as an arrogant interest and preventing the impartial and free exercise of his duties’. I would like to thank all the wings of the House, except for the Greek Solution, which also initially voted unanimously, but at the last minute they entered the Chamber and changed their minds. I'm a democrat, they're entitled. I thank all the wings of the House, which preserve and preserve the legitimacy of Article 62 of the Greek Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u36	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u37	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps someone should add something after Ilhan Ahmet's brief placement, who presented the case. But there is a need for an extension. Indeed, it seems clear and absolutely clear from the documents submitted to the committee that Ilhan Ahmet referred essentially to the judicial decisions concerning the persons concerned, which indeed all their actions demonstrate on a daily basis that they serve different interests and dark circles - I would say - that none but serve the country. It is therefore a democratic right for the Member and every citizen to refer to a judicial decision, which just gave them this designation by condemning them as slanderers, etc. Here we have a struggle - you know him - as they seek to transfer to the courtrooms a discussion on issues relating to the minority. These dark circles, which are beyond every function of democratic institutions and the peaceful coexistence and development of the wider region, but which have their minds in other purposes, should not have the right to be unconstitutional to create a political problem in the region. In this respect, I think it has developed - it is a committee's attitude very important, because the Parliamentary Republic will not, of course, turn into a court in these cases, so that it can redecide on decisions that it has already taken. It is also unacceptable for me that the request which has been made, of course, quite rightly from the point of view of the judicial authorities, but also from the point of view of the content and energy of the messengers against Ilhan Ahmet. I would like to say that the decision was indeed unanimous. It took a different view during the debate on another subject, and unfortunately - and I must say it - the representative of the Greek Solutions. This is unacceptable for a Greek party, for a democratic party within the framework of the democratic process, to be placed in this way. Of course, I would like to ask all Members to support the majority decision of the Ethics Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the speech by the honourable President of Mera25. If instead of a congressman I was a university professor, I would really give him creative ambiguity master. I shall vote against the lifting of immunity, but to be a little simpler. No, I'm not asking you to support me, but do whatever you want. Let us be clearer. And I ask, Mr President: have you today decided to lift my immunity for a basketball court twenty years ago and refer a Member and a former mayor who, during the period of the basketball court, was serving in the Navy and patrolling? There's a time when you have to solve these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u41	We have talked about this in committee, Mr President. There's a thing there. We'll see. [[CHANGING PAGE]] We shall now proceed to the vote. The vote shall include both cases of waiver of immunity. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or earlier, press the arrow on the top right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. If you have any questions or difficulties in handling the electronic system, please contact the relevant officials in this House. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened, so that Members may vote on applications for waiver of immunity. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes by colleagues have been sent to the Bureau under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Giannis Varoufakis and Mr Ilhan Ahmet. On the first case by Mr Giannis Varoufakis, 293 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 11 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 282 Members. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected by a majority. A total of 295 Members voted on Mr Ilhan Ahmet's second case. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 9 Members voted. They voted 286 MPs against the lifting of immunity. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected by a majority. The result of the electronic roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-14-S1-commons.u44	The meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, October 15, 2020, at 10.00" on the subject of the House's work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: “Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment”.
