ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: “Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.K.A.(')'. Mr Apostle from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly of the New Democracy, Minister, before the July 2019 elections you were committed that if you win you will make such parliamentary interventions and reforms in insurance that would be corrected - it says - many things, of course, in your mistake, which have taken the wrong direction in the SYRIZA government's term of office. One of these reforms was the law on pension provisions that we have been discussing these days. However, the bill you have brought is limited expectations, since even in the case of the restoration of significant losses suffered by pensioners - and I stress it - by your own governments only, expectations seem little satisfied and related to a small number of benefits, a few pensioners. In fact, the expected increases will not be found in their accounts before summer, at best in June, since it is necessary after the law is passed and published to follow the recalculation of pensions on the basis of the new rates of replacement resulting from increases in the pension payer for those with more than thirty years of insurance. One would expect someone in the memorial period and in the restoration of regularity to correct first of all injustices and to lay the first foundations for returning part of 45% of pensions lost during the Memorandum - I repeat - your Memorandum. The big losers of the new insurance are private sector employees, low wages and low pensioners, as well as free professionals and self-employed persons have very low incomes. The bill is an intervention of compliance and adaptation to the decisions of the Council of State, but addressing the observed imbalances and unconstitutionalism in terms of inequality and budgetary sustainability to the detriment of social efficiency and the improvement of the standard of living of pensioners. Increases in the few pensioners who have suffered cuts will be financed by abolishing the incomplete 15th pension with a sum of basic and supplementary pensions of EUR 1.300. The cost of reduced contributions for freelance professionals will be borne by employees, employers and the unemployed. The increases in supplementary pensions relate to pensioners before L.4387/2016 and are specific only to pensioners, about two hundred and fifty thousand, who had a sum of principal and supplementary pension of more than EUR 1,300 per month and saw their pensions fall to up to 50%. This expenditure, in the context of the unfavourable financial result, will be financed by the abolition of the thirteenth pension. The increase in pension increases as much as the addition of years of insurance and of contributions paid, particularly over thirty years of insurance. But the losses of these pensioners in relation to the old people have exceeded, as I said, 40%. Disparities are also observed between freelance professionals, self-employed persons and private sector employees at the level of main pensions and health benefits by undermining the principle of equal treatment of social security and health insurance. Comparing the payroll of the employees with that of the selfemployed and the self-employed in respect of the new insurance classes and their free choice, in the case of the thirty-five years of insurance, the employee will finance the full remuneration of the selfemployed, for for forty years the employee will fund the over-analogy of the selfemployed and the self-employed. Therefore, there are inequality conditions in the remuneration of contributions - benefits between these two categories of workers, employees and freelance professionals, because basically their employees and employers will pay as an insurance contribution 20% of their wages. For free professionals and self-employed persons in the first five years, the monthly health insurance contribution is EUR 55 and for those beyond the five-year period it is EUR 66, while for employees and pensioners it is 7% of their monthly income. This means that employees and pensioners with a monthly income of more than EUR 900 will fund health insurance and free professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, the same analogy study that the Minister for Labour has submitted for the insurance bill is revealing. The study clearly shows that the average annual pension with the insurance bill is reduced in relation to the current system for both this year and the years to come by 2040. A total of about two and a half million pensioners shows that the actual reduction in their annual income from pensions will have 90% of the pensioners. Real benefits in their income will only have 10% of already retired people. So, then, the main feature of your insurance bill is that it affects targeted low pensioners and the professionals of lower and middle incomes. And that, ladies and gentlemen, you should know that they do not forget it easily.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-three students and students and five educational sessions from the General School of Philotheis (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor, Mr Marios Katsis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I could not start by making a reference in my opinion to the anarchist catastrophe taken by the Government of New Democracy and lately, but also from the time when it took over the governance. Within just seven months as government you have lost the ball at the expense of the problems but also your monumental inability and you recruit the dogma "decide and order" to show determination. But what you're showing is panic. I would remind you that only within a hundred hours have the departure of MATs on the islands as a military, clashes overnight with residents and elected politicians, self-sufficient but also MPs. The government sacrifices the islands so that they don't lose any votes in the hinterland. Secondly, a complaint from students and the OSCE Declaration that a newly recruited special guard off duty threatened with a gun student inside the university. Apart from the Greeks, with two months of training and the minds raised by the Chrysochide account, it is luck that we did not have any victims. Thirdly, the act of legislative content for the coronary virus that you find the occasion and opportunity for a direct delegation for the purchase of sanitary material. Really, what have you been doing for so long? What were you waiting for? And not just that. He had the courage and the great idea and perception of the Government representative connecting unscientificly, without any connection, the refugee and migration to the spread of the coronary. If that's possible! For all this, we were informed by social media, from some site. The canals of the tomb silence. Things are simple. Mr Mitsotakis' plan to unite all Greeks has been successfully launched by the islands. He united them all against him. As long as the refugee is breaking into its alliance with its extreme right-wing party, the New Democracy will try to exploit politically unacceptable events like that of the ASE. You're incompetent and dangerous. I now enter the bill that, in my opinion, matters are not well here. In the face of the well-published insurance of the New Democracy, an insurance policy for which Minister Brutsi was prophesying to bring the revolution in favour of the social majority. We have been attending the media for months to take tables on how much money the current pensioners will receive, about how much insurance contributions will be reduced for freelance professionals and many other big words. A well-meaning citizen who doesn't know what's going on listening to all this would think we found the money tree. But the truth here lies the bill and lands any expectation of the harsh reality. After all, Brutsis as Minister of Labour and New Democracy are not in the interests of the majority of pensioners and workers. Unfortunately, it has always been so and so is today. But let's take things in turn. By the so-called Katorugalou Act, the Government abolished the insurance class system, so that the vast majority of free professionals and farmers can see a sharp reduction in their insurance contributions. They were now paying to the FBI people who had given up payments because they were too high every semester, every quarter or every month for contributions. And they also entered the benefits of two and a half million of our fellow citizens who had taken them out of the equation in 2013, and they come out of your numbers. With this bill, the government not only restores classes but increases the minimum insurance contribution from 185 to 220 per month. In other words, a reduction of EUR 420 a year is the weakest. Also, nearly 90% of the free trades will pay more for insurance contributions than today. So it's a reduction in income. Tell the truth at last. What you are interested in is the big doctors, the big businessmen, the free professionals with big incomes to be able to pay the lowest possible insurance contribution. How many are there? It's 10 percent of the total. So, in order to alleviate this 10% of the total, the remaining 90% are charged up to EUR 420 per year, you who have not listened to a class policy as such. So it's so socially fair, the new insurance that the fisherman of my neighborhood in Igoumenitsa, who barely gets his expenses, will pay the same insurance contributions as a criminal in Kolonaki who makes a cut as is his monthly fisherman in Igoumenitsa. Congratulations! Is that social justice, Minister? We now go to the pensioners who are bombing them every day with hopes of great increases in their pensions. Mr. Brutsis is probably a magician, because while he reduces pension expenditure by 200 million compared to 2019, he celebrates that he is increasing pensions. But let's see the reality. With the new insurance you're bringing, you're abolishing your thirteenth pension. It is the same pension that you as a New Democracy voted on when we brought it to Parliament as a permanent measure, so that it can be given every year. I repeat that the law of SYRIZA said that the thirteenth pension is permanent and not once outside and will be given every year. It is the same pension that, as a New Democracy, you were undertaking that you will not be abolished after you voted on it. And today you are telling us that there has been no third pension and that you are abolishing it. In fact, the double pension received in 2019 by pensioners who received up to EUR 500, the OGA pensioners, what was it? Wasn't it a third pension? The 830 million granted to two and a half million pensioners in total in 2019 what was it? You underestimate citizens' intelligence. So, initially with the abolition of the thirteenth pension, we have a horizontal reduction in all pensioners. And because I have also heard the Minister of Labour yesterday in his place, do not tell us, Mr Minister, that he has voted out for insurance and taxation - because you admitted, and good for you, that the insurance bill brings increases for the large majority - that at the end of the year the citizen will see a reduction in his wallet. Firstly, if you accept the argument that the insurer Katrugalo was tax and not insurance, then do not adopt the netting, if you want - you are supposed to bring in a reform, which will not be tax, but it will be insurance. One of the prisoners. Secondly, take note of the fact that the vast majority of free professionals have profits of up to EUR 5,000. Go ahead and tell you, for those who have up to EUR 10,000 income, you are reducing the tax rate from twenty-two to nine. If you at the same time calculate the charge on the use of plastic money, but also on the obligation of 30% of electronic transactions, it is one. Go save 100 to 200 euros. So that's why you took and spent all the financial space? To lighten 100 and 200 euros to the vast majority of free professionals? And because we hear it, the vast majority will not see any increases, know it. This is deliberately misleading, because the supposed increase will only be accountable, as it will not exceed the personal difference. So in the pocket, the retired man won't see any more money. And because we listen all the time from the New Democracy that it will increase pensions for the last decade, all we have to remember is that the New Democracy and the PASOK had cut pensions twelve times, and so does today. There's nothing more the retired have to remember. And we recall that the only increases were made on January 1, 2019, in six hundred and twenty thousand low-income pensioners mainly by the SYRIZA government, for the first time in the last decade. That's the truth. As it is true - and I acknowledge it - that a small minority of pensioners, one out of ten, will see a small increase. We are talking about high and very high pensions, that is, those with a sum of principal and subsidiary of more than EUR 1,300 mixed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u5	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. And seventy thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u7	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, please do not interrupt me, let me finish my thoughts and get off the Step. And those who came out after 2016, seventy thousand pensioners and had more than thirty years of insurance. However, because the citizens who listen to us are rightly suspicious of what conflicts have been said about new insurance, I urge them to believe in their own eyes. So those who are free will be asked to pay their new insurance contributions, the pensioners who will be invited to receive their pensions, will first understand the fraud of the 'excellents' government. And then, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, no TV window will be able to present the white black, because the truth cannot be hidden for long. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u9	Let me remind everyone that we're at fifty-two. Now we're going to number fifty-three and they're registered a hundred fifty-seven colleagues. I would remind you of this because, apart from one, we still have speeches of parliamentary representatives, secondary speeches, head speeches. And say something else. Colleagues are also pushing logically, because of the three-day, to get time to catch the planes. I would remind you of this because time has to be observed. And say something. When one wants to mention - his right - on other issues, it should be counted that time is taken into account along with what he wants to say about the bill. On the other hand, Parliamentary representatives are more responsible for the general issues. If anyone spends half the time on the news, I do not say unjustly, then it does not require any more time in its normal position on the bill. That's not to misuse time. I think we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, 50 today, fifty tomorrow, we will have time to make progress, do not worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u11	No, you did not understand that we still have about a hundred colleagues, we have the parliamentary representatives. I have no information, we will probably have political leaders and must be completed. And another thing, I said before: A number of colleagues, who are serving with planes, are pressing in order to have a timely process to catch up on Thursday night. We're moving on so I don't spend time and I'm being abused. Mr Letonaridis Theophilos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we had previously committed ourselves to election, we are creating a new, simple and fair system of insurance accompanied by a full proportionate study that embraces all workers and pensioners and returns a decent pension to their own labour. This is the first insurance bill after eleven years that will have no pension reduction. On the contrary, there will be increases. Especially all present and tomorrow's workers in the country who will have thirty years of insurance will see higher benefits by law. The bill takes a crucial step towards rationalising the social security system and adapting it to the constitutional choices of recompense, equality and sustainability. Over the last ten years, due to the economic crisis, the social security system of the country, in addition to its time-consuming pathogens, has been the major victim of the new conditions due to tax evasion, mass unemployment, migration of a large production potential abroad, the intense demographic issue and general economic recession. At that time, when pension interventions were made, the permanent inclination was how many cuts would be made. Now, with the new insurance system that we will be voting on, the provisions and the debate that is being held have as common denominator what and how many increases will be. The new insurance system is aligned with the requirements of the modern digital age. Through the unification of the system and the digitisation of the process of awarding pensions, it cultivates insurance consciousness, restoring recompense and inspiring the sense of security for workers and pensioners. Progress for us is freedom, reciprocity, solidarity and social justice and digitisation, which are essential components of this reform. The main priorities of the insurance reform are the modernisation, rationalisation and improvement of the process from the application stage to the stage of the pension decision. All benefits, main pension, supplementary pension and one-off by digitising all functions by ensuring more efficient and faster services to citizens. For self-employed free professionals and farmers an innovative and rewarding system of free and flexible choice of insurance contributions is adopted for self-employed self-employed professionals and farmers. Six categories of contributions, disconnected from income, insurance years and minimum wages are established. Freedom and flexibility are given to every insured person to choose the level of contributions he will pay, which can vary annually according to his/her financial capacity and expectation of a future pension. The vast majority of free professionals will benefit from the combination of insurance and taxation. The EUR 1.300 resulting from the reduction of the tax up to EUR 10,000, from 22% to 9%, will exceed any charge. The cumulative effect of the tax and insurance burdens has a positive mark for the insured person and increases the income available to him. That's why they're all winners. And those who have an income of over EUR 10,000, but those who have an income of less than EUR 10,000. For example, a free professional with an annual income of EUR 20,000 and a monthly contribution, of the lowest EUR 210, has an annually positive difference of EUR 2,501. Of course there are other examples and they have been published. Depending on benefits in different categories of income, young people under five-year-olds and scientists, where a lower level of contributions is introduced. For employees, a gradual reduction in insurance contributions shall be implemented up to five percentage points starting from June 2020. For pensioners, the level of remuneration is increased by adjusting the percentages of the main pensions with sharp increases, while benefits up to EUR 200 and retroactively since October 2019 will have in their supplementary pension where they had cuts in June 2016. The primary sector through the new insurance law is treated with sensitivity and care is taken for the retired farmer so that he can work and get 100% of his pension. The pension is also increased to those who are retired, as gross pensions, main and subsidiary, are reduced by 30% and not by 60% that they have so far been. Parallel insurance makes it clear that the two-tier exemption procedure for those other than employees has a block, provided that they pay a total pension and health contribution of EUR 252 every month. A fixed provision is introduced which reduces the necessary insurance time for insurance capacity in the fifty meanings for employees and in two months for freelance professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth wondering that, while there are increases in basic and supplementary pensions in contrast to the Katorugalou law and published in detail in the form and electronic press with examples, without anyone denying them, you are coming in particular, without shame and accusing the government, by investing in the lie, to make a sterile opposition with no arguments. I give you tables in the Minutes of the House with examples of pensioners who are increasing their pension with the new insurance law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theophilos Letonaridis, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In many cases the annual increase is a thirteenth pension. In other cases the increase is important, while for those who do not receive an increase there is also a percentage of GDP, which can be allocated for social policy purposes or to finance low pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we pay tribute to the workers and pensioners a new insurance system, law, simple and rewarding, which will strengthen employment and productivity. The New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, loyal to their election commitments, following the reductions in taxes, benefited workers and businesses through the new tax law. The new insurance law we are voting on restores insurance justice to the older and younger generations, building with them a decent and sure pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u13	I now call on the SYRIZA MEP, Mrs Karasarlidou Euphoria, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to discuss the new institutional framework for the insurance system in our country. And I say'suppose' because you are actually changing only two articles from the existing legal framework. You are bringing the increase in insurance contributions and the reduction in pensions due to the abolition of the thirteenth pension. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, as you like to say, calls on us to continue with the memorial policies, even though the country has emerged from the memoranda. The Government of New Democracy makes for the thirteenth time cuts in pensions following the twelve horizontal cuts in pensions made by the governments of New Democracy and Change in the years of the memoranda. There has been an exception all these years: The increases made by the SYRIZA government to the six hundred thousand pensions in 2019. Your insurance bill, Mr. Brutsi, is targeted at low pensioners and free professionals who have low or medium incomes. Contributions are increased for 90% of the free trade and the self-employed by 20%, i.e. by 35 euros per month. Thus, the minimum contribution from EUR 185 goes to EUR 220. On the other hand, it is a multiple reduction in the contribution of one in ten with high or very high incomes. The free choice of class, which you so much invoke, which is independent of income, benefits high and very high incomes. For example, someone who has EUR 70,000 or EUR 100,000 or EUR 500,000 or even EUR 1,000, will pay the same contribution as the one who has EUR 7,000 and even below. In other words, a person who takes EUR 580 a month and possibly is the only worker in the family and will have to feed his two children, the husband or the wife, this man makes him pay the same as the one who can have EUR 1,000,000 a year's income. Thus, the revenues of EUR 7 000 will have a tenfold burden on the incomes of EUR 70,000 and a hundred times a burden on the incomes of EUR 70 000. The decoupling of income contributions abolishes the proportional and fair distribution of insurance contributions that are key principles for a fair redistributive social security system. It is appreciable and consciously undermined by public social security systems for the benefit of private insurance companies. High incomes are exempted from contributions in order to be able to direct their money towards private insurance. Also, clearly part-time in favour of high and very high incomes is the fixed health contribution, since the same one with an income of 7 000 euros will pay the same as the one with an income of 70,000 euros. Of course, it is an absolute lie that the bill gives for the first time the possibility of paying higher contributions to a higher pension, since this is already the case with Law 4448/2017. And that's what we all do when we're on the market. Ask your MPs what they're doing, because yesterday many of them here said that they're freelance professionals. Let's go to the pensions. The expenditure of the State Budget in 2020 for pensions is less than EUR 200,000,000 than was spent in 2019. So some retired people are going to lose. So you can't claim in here that you're bringing pension increases, since you're reducing the amount for expenditure. So the draft law that you brought expressly abolishes the permanent thirteenth pension that the SYRIZA government passed and paid in 2019. The thirteenth pension, however, mainly strengthened the low pensioners, since for pensions up to EUR 500 it was an entire pension, while for higher pensions it was proportional. To give you an example - every time I talk to the farmers, because I come from a farm law and I know well what is happening - three hundred thousand pensioners lose their entire tenth pension and the remaining two hundred thousand of the six hundred thousand pensioners lose it by 70%, farmers who would not receive pension if the SYRIZA had not created EFKA. So the announcements by Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition to continue the payment of the thirteenth pension are completely flawed. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy lied to Greek citizens. One wonders about the attitude of the New Democracy MPs who, in such a matter, make such a spectacular piece of shit, since they were the same ones who in 2019 had voted for the arrangement that SYRIZA had made for the payment of the tenth pension. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system is fully linked to wage-earning. That is why the deregulation of labour relations, the hitting of collective agreements, the deterioration of the EDP, the encouragement of infraction and the withdrawal of the New Democracy from election promises to increase the minimum wage undermine the public security system. Strengthening work, which was the main objective of our government, reducing unemployment by ten points, as well as reducing undeclared work, restoring collective agreements, extending sectoral contracts with wage increases, increasing minimum wages and abolishing the subordinated were measures that strengthened workers, but not just workers. They also strengthened the public insurance system. The submission of the proposal for a law on increasing the minimum wage for 7.5% in 2020 and another 7.5% in 2021 confirms precisely the direction of SYRIZA's policies, which focus on the world of work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Instead of this choice, however, we have the support of a very small share of pensioners. However, the New Democracy's failure is also in technical terms, such as the increase in the number of outstanding pensions. The SYRIZA government had reduced these outstandings by 70%, compared to the four hundred thousand outstanding pensions it received, while you increased them by 40 thousand. But what we have to admit, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is that you have absolute competence - that we admit - when it comes to settling your own people with very high wages, even when they get their pensions, such as the hundreds of post-mortem associates of this government, who will have their pension almost and their entire salary, a wage which you have of course increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u15	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u16	One second. You apply unfair policies, opacity policies, you apply the same recipes as you led the country to bankruptcy and Greeks to poverty, impoverishment, unemployment and fear. I am sure it will not be long before the Greek society sends you its own message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Philotheis (second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories after having participated in the educational program "The Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fourteen students and students and three educational attendants from the 47th Municipal School of Piraeus. The House welcomes you. I give the floor to Mr Papastasis Nikolaos for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the new pension reform, as the government is doing, in our assessment, is an attempt to legitimise a legislative monstrous system that has since begun. This reform legalises the huge whisky which has taken place at the expense of pensioners. It legalizes the abolition of the social character of insurance. It does not ensure the sustainability of the social security system. It does not even guarantee the current inhumanly low level of pensions. And finally, it despises the social security institution further. Already with the positions of previous MPs of the Communist Party of Greece, we revealed the reactionary direction of the bill. I am going to refer to a category of workers that the government at this time, involving them more deeply in the planning of NATO, the US and the European Union, is preparing to send him to Saudi Arabia, the Gulf of Libya, Mali and elsewhere. These missions are in addition to the 12 that Greece already participates in military operations. You realize that I'm referring to military personnel. They are the active executives, as well as the retired ones who have been arbitrarily smashed with bars of unfavourable peculiarities so far. The same applies to the staff of the Security Councils. It is known that at least as regards the time when pension entitlement is granted in general in the public and private sectors, insured persons are treated as old and young. The former are the workers who started work until 30-6 1990 and young people who started from 1-7 1990 and from then on. In 2010, with regard to the Armed Forces strains, under Law 3865/10, the persons registered from 1-7 to 1990 until 31-12-1992 were violently separated from the old insured body. Since then, they have been treated as young. This is not the first time that this issue has been raised. The Pan-Hellenic Federation of Military Associations, the WTO, has presented it on several occasions. He has tabled relevant proposals to you too. As a opposition, you accepted them. Then you had reason to do so, voting reason. As government today you write them in your old shoes. The Minister for Labour in his place in a recent timely question, once again, was muddled. He presented the Communist Party of Greece to the contrary by the members of the Armed Forces and the staff of the Security Corps. Your slanders, Minister, fall into the void. We insist. The Communist Party of Greece supported and supported every day the members of the three branches of the Armed Forces as well as the staff of the Security Councils. This support is in the direction of resolving the enormous problems they face. In this connection and in listening to their collective voice, we ask: Return of the contributions of the long-term volunteers - IMPs as they are called - as they have been returned from the IKA - EDF to the ELOs, but without being attributed to the beneficiaries, but remaining to the ELO as social resources. Recognition of the three-year-old, so-called 'three-year', and of the fictitious years at 6.67% rather than 20%, as they are today. The possibility of recognizing fictitious years of pension service for each child of the military, as is the case in the rest of the public sector. Integration of specific military specialists working in burdened environments, heavy and unhealthy, as is the case with the civil servants of the Ministry of National Defence - be careful - who work in the same areas as them. Also, the Air Force Lt.A. has tabled proposals that she has sent to you. And you ignored them. I'm tabling them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapastasis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They're the ones who flew yesterday. They supported in the ground and air the upgraded today with billions of euros F-16 and Mirage and any other air force of the Air Force. They defended - and defend - our sovereign rights in the Aegean, in the escalations of Greece. You ignored them. You kicked them, too. You ignored them, as you ignore all workers and pensioners. This body notes, inter alia, that Articles 24 and 25 are attempting to increase the rate of replacement from 30,1 years of insurance up to forty years. However, this increase is accounting because it is offset by the amount of the personal difference already paid. The reduction in the supplement rate from forty years of insurance and over 1,5 per year, because the 2% already paid is set at 0.50 per cent, resulting, inter alia, in the reduction of the supplement rates from 2% to 0.50 per cent from forty years and over. This is something that creates great injustice against the returnees, who have 40.1 years of insurance and over. At the same time, however, it is also a stimulus to stay in active personnel and, in particular, to flight crews, special forces, submarine crews, helicopters, frogs. It will have a significant impact on the Armed Forces' staff tomorrow. Article 27 refers to the employment of pensioners. The content of this concept, the employment of pensioners, is one of the black pages of your legislative path, all governments, from 2009 until today. You have condemned hundreds of thousands of pensioners, after a lifetime in the biopale, to beg for work. We understand them and recommend them to be reasonable: to punish you. And they should punish you, turning their back on your policy, a policy implemented by the New Democracy, the PASOK - a change movement, SYRIZA. The Panhellenic Federation of Retired Security Bodies has submitted a memorandum to us. The remarks, as you can see, are endless, because without perfection your anti-grass legislation is also your anti-grass legislation. We, as a Communist Party of Greece, will not stop at the moment starting with our members, with our members, with the workers, the pensioners in the formation of conditions to overthrow this policy. From this Step, we invite the workers, pensioners, the retired persons of the Armed Forces and the Security Forces to step up the struggle, to give massively the "present", even if they don't all agree with us, to the rally on Thursday at Propylaea at 18:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u19	Mrs Irene Agathopoulos, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the insurance bill for which, from what we have understood, the Government and the New Democracy bet a lot on it, mainly in communication, to cover the whole shameful situation that is currently on our islands with the refugee, but also the violence and repression and terrorism that accompanying it. However, the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have, on your own, put the bar too high and, on the eve of election and post-election, Mr Minister. You put the bar so high that now, from the top, you can't pass. And I explain: Obviously, from what we understand, your goal is not to compete in the period of the memorials. Isn't that right? We are going to another period, as the explanatory statement says, in a new period for the insurance system with the digitisation of the ECA, with innovative applications, by creating a fairer and more effective system that restores endogenous and transgenic solidarity. You are talking about pension increases and other such fine things as the explanatory statement. But you're forgetting something. You forget about the previous period of your own government and the Minister of State of this Minister, which is very difficult to do all the above. During that previous period, you were the ones who completely deregulationd the labour market and introduced the embarrassing underpaid wage for young people, for those who did not send to unemployment. Because, at that time, the proportion of young people was 55% in unemployment and 28% in total. You forget, then, that for this new generation, which was all these years without constant work, who lived for the good of unemployment, but also for work without full rights, pensions will not be a pension, but will be a social aid. Because the proportion of those currently insured who can be more than thirty years of work in the future is minimal. That is why it is your policies, the policies that we have just mentioned. SYRIZA's rapporteur, as well as other speakers, have demonstrated with evidence, for which reason the insurance is not fairer and more effective than the previous one. It is not fair with regard to low-wage and low-pension workers. It is not effective, since there are few pensions that are increased, while, on the other hand, insurance contributions are increased for the vast majority of insured persons. The first and lower insurance category, in which, as you say freely, but ultimately someone will be led - and this is the large majority - is increased by 20% compared to today. And, of course, there is no safety test to guarantee the viability of this system. I, Minister, will tell you one more reason why we consider this insurance to be neither fair nor effective. You have not taken into account the gender factor at all. And I'll explain. It was your government who has said since the first day that our priority is the absolute gender equality, particularly at work. That is why you also moved the General Secretariat of Equality from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Labour, precisely because you wanted to prioritise women's working, insurance and pension rights. And from this government, we would expect a lot more. You know, Minister, that the issue of combating the pension racial divide is one of the European Union's main priorities, because the pension gap is greater, both from income and from wages and reaches 36.5% in the European Union. Also, I imagine, you will know - and if you do not know, I am tabling the press release - that it is currently being implemented by the institutions of your Ministry that a research programme on the gender gap in pensions is being carried out. You know that? We had, of course, started this programme, so you might not know it. But you are bringing in an insurance policy with such a hurry, while it is in the process of a programme that is being implemented to combat the racial pension gap, without even taking into account it. Such a hurry! So such excellence makes you not have time or expect the results of this very important investigation? [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even if you did not happen to be informed of this, I have here page 16 of the pension adequacy study you submitted to us. Did you see her, Minister? Have you seen this chart? You're probably not interested in what I'm showing you, Minister. He's not in the Chamber, probably the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u21	I hear you, but I don't have to look at you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u22	Oh, right. But I'm showing you something. Have you seen this chart? Do you see it? Do you see that in terms of rates of replacement in Greece and the European Union for men and women in pensions the gap is growing every day between men and women? What does that mean, Mr President? And I put it in the Minutes for the Minister to see it again in a colored version at the moment, because it was tabled in black and white. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is because women's average wages in the years of work are much lower than men's and the years of insurance less. As a result, women's pensions are much smaller. Do you, then, understand the importance of this diagram and the importance you must attach to the plurality of the pension system? However, it does not appear from the reports you have submitted that, in the promotion of sustainability scenarios, you take into account such elements by 2070. You are not planning anything in this direction for the next 50 years, and obviously your commitment to gender equality at work seems to be a pretext. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by recapitulating. Low economic levels, young and women are the victims of your bill. And who remained to benefit? Those who had drawn up more than EUR 1.300, the high incomes you have given them the possibility to pay the lowest insurance contribution and the rest either to invest them or to make them chewed up, and of course, your retired retired friends who have hired you to your offices and who will also get a salary and a pension. We are therefore with a public universal and redistributive social security system that operates on the basis of social needs and ensures a decent pension, but also health care for all people without discrimination. That is why we have also tabled two amendments on the equal treatment of uninsured overtime, but also on the equal treatment of insured persons who have paid the same amount of contributions, so that they are entitled to the same pension without reductions. It was a Memorandum of Understanding, and now that we are out of memorandums, we are asking for it to be abolished. It is mainly about repatriators and our fellow citizens. And because we do not want any workers or many-speed pensioners, we will defend them to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u23	Mrs Catherine Papanatziou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, your new insurance bill is to be added to the Government's legislative initiatives to which both commitments and its announcements are waived. The communication management of your issues and the distortion of reality cannot continue for long. You understand that, too, is now understood by the citizens. You will not be able to continue for long the mockery of our fellow citizens. The citizens have understood your impatientness about the alleged reductions in taxation and the strengthening of weaker and medium-sized strata through the tax draft. Now the myth of the insurance reform and the cancellation of L.4387 is falling apart. Let me refer to three points. Point One: Your myths break down to take with them your majestics for reliefs and proportionally fairer system. In full correspondence with the tax bill, the only thing the insurance can do is the reverse redistribution from the bottom to the top, that is, the aid of the strongest of the small and medium-sized ones. Nine out of ten free traders are heavily charged with their contributions to a maximum of one out of ten. The small benefits of the free professionals from the forecasts for reducing the initial tax rate are evaporated through the increases in contributions. From tier one we see a monthly charge of EUR 35. And to note that they will prepay the increased contributions directly and after the summer of 2021 they will see what remains of the tax cuts that you promised them. Low and medium-incomes see a 20% increase in their contributions and pay the multiple reduction in contributions for high and very high incomes. You are also abolishing the connection between a levy and an income, which means, of course, that you have a reasonable income of EUR 50,000 per annum for paying the same contributions as an income of EUR 5 000 per annum. How fair is it? What you are saying is flexibility, we call it a regular bias in favour of high-stage and obvious injustice of the weak. In our law, there was the possibility of selecting higher contributions in case the insured person wanted to establish a right to a higher pension. When you were talking about pension increases, you must have meant increases in contributions. This misunderstanding cannot be explained otherwise. Secondly, your bill, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, however much as you are cut off on the contrary, has cuts. We told you in the budget too. We repeat this now. It's 200 million less. When the pie's down, some lose. Who loses with your bill? Low pensions. Let's see, then, the supposed increases you're advertising on pensions. Simple accounting transfers due to changes in the replacement rates, after being absorbed by the personal difference foreseen by us. In total, you confined yourself to some exercises for some seventy thousand pensioners after 2016 and up to thirty years and up to forty. You cannot hide the truth forever, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of the proportional study you have submitted, it is clear that the average annual pension is reduced by 2040. It is recorded in the study or not that with the current pension scheme in 2021 the average pension is EUR 9,942, while with your reform it falls to EUR 9,842. We can continue until 2040. You won't make the white one. Following your increases, we also have the practical abolition of the thirteenth pension. We ask for an immediate answer on the impending world of work and retired people. Here the losses relate essentially to all pensioners, particularly those who lose an entire pension. You first baptized her inexistent, although voted on Law 4611. You voted for it, of course, too. Then you described it as an impulse to hide your political disobedience to all forms of social justice and to pave the way for its practical abolition. Well, let's say it clearly. Reintroduce, Minister, the thirteenth pension. Point 3, the bill in much of it confirms the reform of SYRIZA. In many respects, provisions are incorporated into provisions that have been established by circular and ministerial decisions. Especially for the first part of the bill, we have to say that you make special reference to technical points mainly for reasons of impression. Also, a few days before the vote on the birth allowance, the one you so advertised, you had made sure that you secretly remove by Ministerial decision the 50% reduction in the insurance contributions that mothers were entitled to for a 12-month period after birth or after the termination of the apprenticeship subsidy. It has been reported by many Members of Parliament of the New Democracy. This is a provision that after our own pressure you have now restored to your bill as a new provision. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it's nothing new. Understood. In your general sense, of course, as the Prime Minister has said, you are interested in communication and not in substance. Ladies and gentlemen, our reform has tried to unify the rules for insured persons and has not distinguished contributions and benefits by category and occupation. The insurance system is deeply linked to the labour market. The positive rate of employment we have delivered, except for oxygen to the workers of this country, was also oxygen to our insurance system. Your aggressive labour policy, always in favour of flexibility, results in a stagnation and creates conditions that we have met in previous years in both the labour market and the insurance system. Unfortunately, the citizens of this country do not forget about you. The more you attack the workers, baptizing them 'workers', the more you receive the answers you need for your policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u25	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Mandas Pericles, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end you are politically unrepentant. Four meetings in the Committee on Social Affairs, the second plenary session today, and you all go to Stepma and bail against the bill and at the same time defend the Katrugalou law,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u27	The anti-constitutional law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u28	...the law which the Council of State itself declared him unconstitutional. And I wonder, what is your institutional position? Apart from the S.E.L.D. which declared him unconstitutional, the Katorugalou law failed in all fields. He failed in his technical piece. In the first year of its implementation, we had EUR 400 million less insurance contributions. He failed in society. There is even one - even one! - a citizen who had not suffered any negative consequences from the Katrugalu law? You are responding to the disconnection of insurance contributions from income. I'm really wondering which head of mind thought we'd have the free worker, from whom we're going to get 28% income tax, 27% insurance contributions, 100% tax advance, and this free trader will be able to stand on his feet, produce, move his life forward. How did you think that in this way you could bring growth to the real economy? You led people to tax evasion. You led the free professionals to the inertia, not to work, not to work, not to produce, because the more they worked and the more they worked, the more you pass on taxes. You are accusing us of increasing the contributions to the low scale. In this report, which is actually increasing on the first scale, you hide the most important element that is: that in your law, in the Katrugalos Act, the minimum contribution was linked to the minimum wage, which means that in the next one, two, three years at most 185 could have been 210, 220 and had the same increases again. At the same time, you react because, as you say, the budget provides for a budget of EUR 200 million of less insurance costs. Excuse me, ten years of the crisis and the period of yours, did you not see that the insurance expenditure per year in the budget was less? Don't you know why it's less? Why don't you tell people? Do you not know that it is less for technical reasons and because of the changes that have taken place over the last few years in the insurance system? You are looking forward to the fact that we predict 0.5% of GDP in support of the insurance system. Why don't you say that? 0.5% of GDP corresponds to what it corresponds to? Isn't that equivalent to a billion euros? Isn't that the amount to cover anything that comes in the course? Why don't you tell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u29	Well done, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u30	You came and your great cause for the bill is the abolition of the thirteenth pension. In fact, you are resigning because, as you say, we voted for it and supported it when we were in the opposition. Excuse me, don't you remember Mr. Mitsotakis then, all the Members telling you that this is not a thirteenth pension, but an election allowance? You brought it a month before the elections, in view of the overwhelming defeat that was coming for your party. You went to the vote of the Greek pensioners. And you deliberately did it. And the worst thing - and I told you in committee, I tell you here too - is not that you thought of doing this. The worst part is that you thought you could deceive the Greek pensioners in this way, with a few crumbs, to vote on you. Because that is how you understand your relationship with the citizens, so you understand your relationship with the pensioners who have put back to the difficult all these years of the crisis. So you blame us for the fact that we voted and agreed at that time, while we even warned you that it is pro-electionary, that you are covering all the financial area that was in place for 2020 - the one billion that was given all the years of the crisis as an allowance at the end of each year - we have warned that we will not be able to give another allowance at the end of the year, because you have covered this financial area.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u31	You never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u32	We've been through all this. We have also talked about this in public too during the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u33	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u34	The Minutes of the House, see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u35	And, of course, you'll find them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u36	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u37	It's no lie at all. You'll find them in the Minutes a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u38	Don't interrupt, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u39	Don't get excited, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u40	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u41	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Colleague, don't get upset. You'll hear them!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u43	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u44	You'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u45	Look at the Minutes. Now you're telling us your jokes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Barka, you'll hear them. Don't get excited. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u47	Keep going, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u48	In all of this, then, you are discussing, which you are responding to, you say nothing about the provision for young freelance professionals. You don't like it? Will you vote for it? Will you vote on the provision that for five years young free professionals will pay reduced contributions? Will you vote for it? What did your law say? Reduced contributions, but in five years, you'd take them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u49	Incidentally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u50	Incidentally. Will you vote for the reimbursement of supplementary pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u51	You don't know that. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u52	Will you vote on the supplementary pensions, gentlemen? Will you vote on the provisions on the digitisation of the ETUC? In 2020, at the time of the technological revolution, and we have in our country four and five years to get a pension. Will you vote on these provisions? Will you vote to reduce the insurance days for the insurance cover? Will you vote for it, yes or no? Will you vote on the provisions on working mothers? Tell us you'll do them. What do you want, anyway? Do you want us to go back to the Kharugalou law, the anti-constitutional? Anything else you want? And if you want anything else, what is this other, finally, where do you want? We haven't heard a proposal. Tell us what it is you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u53	That's right. Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u54	So we can talk for hours about your ideological objections, your ideological principles and all that we have lived for four and a half years when you have ruled. We can talk about how differently we all understand progress in our country, what we mean'medium-class', what you mean, what Mr Tsakalotos means, what your other Minister means, what we give young people to stay in our country and to create and work here to build their family, work, what you have been motivating for four and a half years. Our main concern, however, was to respond to the anxiety, to the insecurity, to the issues posed by the new generations, the generations of our generations, who are creating this period in our country, which we are relying on to raise Greece on its feet, to respond to this anguish that says: 'What am I doing? I work so much, I pay taxes, will I finally have the possibility, and I get a pension once or all of this goes to a well?' This answer we give in this bill, that for the first time when any active citizen of this time in our country is in retirement, he will receive the biggest pension from any other bill that has been in recent years. Because it is a bill that also ensures the existing pensioners, strengthens reciprocity, stimulates work - very important - it prevents tax evasion and revitalizes the most creative, most productive, most vibrant part of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u55	I invite Mr. Georgios Kotrias, Member of the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, history worldwide is made up of phenomena and periods of recession and recovery. The economy and its social aspects obey exactly the same phenomena. At this particular historic moment, this draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is a project that marks a recovery phase. Recovery through clear rules and through a secure system stability. This recovery is immediately seen by two features. First, the unequivocal and explicit statement that there will be no reductions in pensions in the insurance bill under discussion. Secondly, what is apparent from the fact that the right of pensioners by the Council of State is also an undertaking by the Government to be assimilated to the right of each pensioner having the same conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece, as far as insurance is concerned, we were always talking about inappropriate interventions, lost opportunities from 1952 to 1980 studies by the Vakalopoulos Commission and in 1994 by the Sprau Committee to Law 2084/1992, which attempted a merger of insurance agencies. Let us not forget that there were three hundred and seven main and subsidiary bodies in 1990. In 1997 we had twenty-eight main insurance bodies and over three hundred subsidiary insurance bodies. In order to reach Law 3655/2008, to have seven insurance agencies and to end up in Law 4387/2016 that created an insurance agency, EKKA, but without the expected results. If we add to all of this the ten-year economic crisis that has had a negative impact on the insurance system together with the fragmentation of insurance institutions, mass unemployment, migration of productive potential with a high level of skills, together with our strong demographic problem, we understand that, today, the conditions have been created so that the insurance system can be sustainable and that today workers can escape insecurity and hopefully receive a decent pension at the end of their careers. The current reform of the insurance system creates a new digital and effective insurance system, which is initially in line with the constitutional principles, restores justice by strengthening the rewardive nature of the system and cancels the disproportionate financial burden imposed on an important, productive and creative part of the Greek economy. The bill is in line with the recent decisions of the Council of State, it redesigns the country's insurance system while encouraging the growth of the economy. Modernises and improves the process from the application stage to the pension decision stage and achieves the immediate and simultaneous award of all benefits, main pension, supplementary pension and one-off. For the first time in the history of the country's insurance system, the digital pension intended to be an expeditious reform in the direction of the upgrading of the operation of the e-ECA and the minimisation of the time needed to complete the administrative procedures for the award of the pension. It is adopted for self-employed freelance professionals and farmers a new, innovative and rewarding system of free and flexible choice of insurance contributions. Six categories of contributions, from the first threshold to the sixth ceiling, are introduced, dissociated from income in contrast to those paid over the years from the years of insurance, classes, and from the minimum wage. Freedom and flexibility are given to every insured person to choose the level of contributions he pays, which can vary annually according to his or her financial potential and his expectation of the future pension. In this way, something else is facilitated, and the service design of professionals is facilitated in the short and long term and the development of their economic activities is encouraged. It is established for young insured persons with up to five years of insurance contributions which are lower than the level of contributions. For farmers, the same basic principles are applied as for freelance professionals and self-employed people, i.e. the income and years of insurance are dissociated. For employees, there is a gradual reduction in insurance contributions of up to five percentage points starting in June 2020 by 0,9 percentage points, aiming at reducing non-wage labour costs to encourage new recruitment, boosting competitiveness and increasing total employment. For pensioners, the level of remuneration shall be increased by adjusting the rates of pensions to the basic pensions while supplementary pensions based on the drafted proportional study continue to be paid as from 1 October 2019 to the amount established in accordance with the applicable provisions. If we look at a little selective, in the first part of the law comes to complete the national vision of establishing a single insurance system. In its second part, it lays down the provisions by which the new national social security institution is transformed at the same time into an electronic national social security institution e - ECA, which, as I said, will implement the maximum institutional section, i.e. the digital pension award. The insurance system is going to the digital age and is reshaped into a single modern and citizen-friendly system. The fourth part introduces the e-ECA body and amends the n.e.c. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The insurance, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing but an agreement between generations. I'm working today so you can get a pension for working yesterday. However, if this social agreement is to apply in the interna tional sector, there must obviously be three factors. First of all, there are workers in the country capable of working. Secondly, there must be jobs to fuel the insurance system. And, thirdly, there is a stable framework for this agreement that I mentioned. Today's law directly ensures the third condition and creates a favourable, stable environment for the existence of work in the country and new potential in it. The law guarantees the stability of the system for a long time based on two proportionate studies submitted by the Minister in plenary, and stops the insecurity of workers. And despite its long-term prospects and its design, which obviously includes risks of failure by unforeseen factors, I am sure it will be the law that will create a modernly stable insurance system that will support the Greek worker and the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u57	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Amanatidis George, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with what I said at the committee meeting. I said at the time that a very good legislative framework was built and I use the word 'built' because it means that it is a solid legislative framework as it is based on solid foundations. It will therefore solve a problem that is stirring up Greek society and economy on a sustainable basis. In the last decade, of course, because of the economic crisis, the social security system in the country beyond its time-consuming diseases has been the major victim of the new conditions due to tax evasion, mass unemployment, migration of a large production potential abroad, the strong demographic problem and overall economic recession. In the question of whether the bill we are discussing today is a real reform, the answer is unequivocally 'yes'. I would call it the mother of the insurance reforms, to use a verbal cliché. Before I mention the innovations it brings, I will dwell on what I consider to be very knotty. For the first time in the history of the insurance scheme, a draft law is accompanied by a comprehensive proportionate study confirming the viability of the system. It is as if a bill is passed with a strong majority, because the scientific data of the proportionate study can hardly be called into question. The main feature is that the country's insurance system now, and proven, acquires stable bases. The second element is that in the long term the overall performance of the insurance system in our country will work positively and is budgetaryly balanced with contributions. It is also characteristic that the reimbursement of the insurance system will only be covered by the contributions, while the national pension will be the state budget. So we have an insurance system, as I said, solid and sustainable. There has never been anything similar to insurance reforms in the past. But why is it important? This government is also innovating in terms of formulating and formulating public policies. This has so far been done in many draft laws. We are making the beginning of what in political science we call "change for example", from policies based on ideologies and political beliefs, we are going to policies based on evidence and on studying the evidence that affects them. So we go to policies that are practicable, realistic and ultimately useful. What happened to the previous law insurance plan, the alleged Katrugalu law? He called on the workers to work harder, to pay more and to get lower pensions. It essentially led to the conversion of the insurance system into a complex, unfair and non-reimbursable system, with substitution factors which did not reasonably return the contributions paid, a system which created an incentive to remain on it, while extinguising and punishing everything creative, a system that reversed the intended growth due to its conversion into tax reinsurance, and that had a serious impact on employment. The aim of the new insurance system is to restore what we call 'justice' for those who have worked the most and at the same time to strengthen recompense. The age limits shall not be affected or the architecture of the insurance, consisting of the sum of national and pensionable pensions. The new insurance reform embraces all today's workers, significantly favours all tomorrow's pensioners, taking care of it and having completed thirty years of service and one day. Its structure is significantly strengthened as the rates of pension are strengthened, with the aim of leading us to higher rates of replacement. So we have an increase of more than seven percentage points in the 40th year and more than six points in the thirty - five years. More specifically, it is the first insurance system, after eleven years, which has no reductions. On the contrary, there will be increases. Special care and favourable treatment to all new entrants in the production process, through low contributions, is generally widened in the first five years of working life. Indeed, the new law will not oblige anyone free of charge after five years to give back the difference in the reduced contributions and the first insurance category, as the Katrugalos law required. Also, we have a complete disconnect from the years of insurance and the known classes of the past. It is very important that at the beginning of each year each insured person will be aware of the possibilities he has in order to choose the class he wants to go to and therefore regulates the insurance return that he hopes to have. In addition, we have a complete decoupling of income. As I said earlier, the insurance scheme is also tax, with tax evasion leading to tax evasion, as was the case in the previous scheme. There is special care for fishermen, farmers and farmers, and care for the electronic EVKA strengthens its credibility, improves speed, reduces bureaucracy, improves - something very important - citizens' confidence in implementing this public policy. Also, something that I consider to be equally important is that it does its function in person and is normal. Digital pensions will enable one to six to be given immediately - without delay - the pension to each candidate for a pension. The reduction in insurance contributions by five percentage points, starting in June 2020, by 0.9 percentage points, is a characteristic that will, as is normal, lead to a reduction in charges, to an increase in working conditions. It is the correlation and follow-up of the decisions of the Council of State in favour of pension compensation. In conclusion, I should like to say that we are seeking through this insurance system all Greeks to believe in social security again, to join it, to trust it, to trust the labors of all life insurance and to know that they will eventually receive a decent pension. The costs of the new insurance system have been analysed, approved by the General Accounting Office of the State and by the institutions. There is already provision in the bill for the permanent financing of the insurance with 0.5% of the Gross National Product, In closing - and because we are in a hurry to save time - I must say that it is very good for our region that the overweight arrangements for PPC workers have remained, and this is particularly appreciated by the citizens of a region, which we have the difficulties ahead of us, and we have to fight to prevent the changes. Even more ideal would be the reciprocity of the twenty-seven years to account for thirty-five years, which will solve one important issue once and for all and reflect a human face of the state towards a society that will be difficult, but which will succeed over the next few years. That's why I'm sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u59	He has asked for the floor for a small intervention, as the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, is entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be brief, because I understand the pressure of time. I'm just interfering, and I'm gonna make it tomorrow. Minister, or I've been waiting for it, or they'll get us out. You know, you have a problem to realize that in politics it does not cure when the result. Unfortunately, for seventy and eighty years Greek politicians' policy has been to heal and comment on the result macroscopically. Why do we have a problem with insurance, Minister? In order to solve the problem, we have to get straight into the cause. So you cure a disease, go to cause, cure the cause, and result changes. You go backwards, heal a result while you don't heal the cause. The reason for unemployment is therefore. The insurance will be sustainable, my Minister, if the Greek has a job and we have contributions. The insurance will be resolved, my Minister, if I have Greeks who work and don't die demographically. On the one hand, the "fake left" as I call them, because most of them are not left-wing, with millions of testimonies - to enjoy them, I am glad that the Greeks have money - but you can't be left and stay in the north suburbs and declare left-wing and have millions of testimonies and not hosting and no illegal immigrants in your home. So they say they will enrich us, together with the country's Prime Minister, with new material, with new people to solve the demographics. If you really want to solve the insurance, Mr. Minister, give incentives for the Greeks to have a job and have contributions, give incentives to give birth to new Greeks. Don't expect the lazy ones, you give them 500 euros, Ibrahim or anyone else, in Greece, 500 euros every month, to work and give you contributions. So you get it backwards, as you get it all backwards anyway. What didn't you really change with the Katorugalu? Age limits, pension years: No transitional period provided for. Recalculating old pensions with a new law. Nothing is predicted, Mr. Minister. What didn't you do? Have you reinstated the CSCE? The ESS was, if you want, a small gift from the state for the distractions, for the great, insolent people who have no money. You abolished it and didn't bring it back. Why don't you bring it back? Have you reinstated widow's pensions? Oh, no. Did you satisfy requests from the MEDIs? Unfortunately, no, Minister. Children with disabilities, autism, Down syndrome are entitled to the full amount of pension received by the deceased parent. How will these children live, Minister? Tell me how these kids are gonna live? I don't know how many of you have children with disabilities, with Down Syndrome, etc., but if their parents die, they don't deserve anything. What? We're gonna throw them in the trash? What did you do with it? Isn't there social sensitivity? Is there anything in this government? Everything on the autopilot? Everything? You promised care for the relatives - the Prime Minister of the country - was here - by our own intervention - I am not saying my own - for the Northcontinents. The same applies to Greeks. You didn't do anything. You brought the insurance policy, and you didn't include it in it. Either you lie and mock the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister mocks the Greek Parliament and lied to the Northcontinents to steal the vote to the Greeks as well. Why? These people don't deserve it? Isn't that a lie? Or is the Prime Minister not running, Mr. Minister, or are you running, and you are Prime Minister. Decide. The Prime Minister has committed himself in here. If you're undoing what the Prime Minister said, there's a problem. So let us make you Prime Minister, Mr. Brutsi, be the Prime Minister of the country, and you decide, we speak with you, and I say it with a lot of sympathy. The Northcontinents and the Greeks who came from the Soviet Union and from our Northern continent are not third-class citizens. It is shameful to give every one who comes in here, as you say, illegal immigrants, refugee or immigrants, is a guest, a EUR 500 and not to take the Greek Northcontinent and not to take the Greek Pole. On unemployment: Europe's stable champion, Greece, in terms of unemployment. How will you solve the insurance, Minister? Tell me, do you, the lighters of the Greek Parliament? Because I realize that most of them in here - I will say it this way to understand it - you do not know the basic thing, that most of them from 2000 and before most of them have them at home. What electronic numbering, etc. You're telling me? But it can't be, since they're in their house on paper. Maybe because you don't know what a lot of people mean in here. It doesn't matter, but that's the truth. So, Minister, you are coming to do what SYRIZA has done, rather than all of us thinking together, all of our parties, putting forward proposals and, if you like, a common denominator, a factor and saying that he will be our boogeyman, our driver. You decide, but I am sure the next government will reinstate insurance because this insurance is incomplete. He has no care and he cannot understand your Ministry - I will say once again - that you do not heal the result, heal the cause to solve the problem. I'm trying to show you to understand it. In closing, I tell everyone with soul pain that you're all out of place and time. I'm sorry to say this, but for illegal immigration, immigration, refugee - say as you wish, you have a vocabulary and vocabulary most of you make the fish meat - you are out of place and time. Your inability is baptized in the fact that the problem is European. It's not a European problem. The problem is - unfortunately for us - Greek and national. If it were European, your European friends would not close the borders, because they are neither your friends nor your friends, but you do not understand. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] How is it a European with a closed northern border from Greece? How is it European with the Visegrad countries operating differently? How is it European when Germany does other things, France does others? Is this a European problem? Are we serious in here? We simply baptize our inability as another problem that does not concern Greece. It's a national matter. You have reached a point, Minister, in Lesvos, in Chios and in Samos throwing out of chemical ends in 1981. It is disgraceful - I say it publicly - that you denounced those in the Prespecies above what they were throwing out chemicals, do the same thing, because you both are the same. You are arrogant with power, you are authoritarian and you impose orders and decisions without asking the Greek people. You cannot do push back to illegal immigrants because you fear them from here not to tell you that you are extreme, I know, or right. Fear the push back to illegal immigrants and push back to the inhabitants of Lesvos and Chios, you're kicking them out of our islands. It's a disgrace and I'm saying it. I watched a Greek police officer hitting a cop. Where did you find those cops, guys? These people, if we send them to Turkey to make war, they won't fight, the Greek will have beaten him black. Where did you get those MATs? Are they Greek? Open the heads of the ten-year-old children? Are you all right? Do we have a war? Who do they open the heads to? The Lesvius, the Chiots, which is the country's first line of defense for any invasion that can take place from the east. Are you all right? Do these people hate the Greek state? Send MATs. I saw a ship coming down on a lineup with helmets, shields, guns. Where are you sending them? At war? To protect who? I'll tell you what. Your inability to take them to uninhabited islands. You'll take them to uninhabited islands to end social controversy. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] If you really are governors, close the NGOs that weren't recorded. The Minister replied to me that eighty-six were registered. The other three hundred eighty, why are they working? Why don't you shut them down? Turn them off, finally, the pigeons. Your old shoes were written by the two eighty - three hundred. Turn them off! Only eighty operate legally, etc. Check them out and close the rest. Cut the benefits, mercifulness! To close, friends and friends, with this subject, I will say again this important: On SYRIZA the police officer beat the Greeks to give Macedonia to the Skopje, and today New Democracy beats the citizen to offer space, Greece to every Hassan and Ibrahim who came to the country. You make mistakes, you show you're basically a government without compass. Within one night, you sent ships with police and MATs. Samothraki, you made a month to send a ship, guys. In Samothraki a few months ago, you took a month or so to send a ship. Right here you sent ships with police officers, logistics, means of transport, with a lot of things. I cannot understand why you are conducting this hatred against the Greeks, with this racism against the Greeks who are taxed, paying HIS, contributions, pays everything. What are you torturing him? I don't understand that. Can I tell you something? We are talking about Lesvos, which has a very large percentage on the left, and I cannot understand the hypocrisy of those who are talking about open borders, SYRIZA, the left-wing, open borders. What do they say? To transfer the problem, he says, to mainland Greece. They're nice, because they're incapable of realising that the illegal man who comes into the country is illegal, perfect, and out! The immigrant who is illegally entering a country is an illegal immigrant. It has rights, however, it cannot have the same rights as any citizen who lives here for decades. It's very important. I close to not take any more time, although I have a minute, with the following: Do you know what the great Aristophanes said? "You must first be a rower before you take the wheel of the boat." Unfortunately, you are neither rowers nor rowers you can, nor leaders you can be, nor unfortunately plan you had, nor plan you had, and all you did with the boat you have in your hands is take it to the rocks and the bottom. We won't let you as Greek Solution. We'll tell you what we're telling you to change the country, all the parties, regardless of ideological differences. This country unites us, nothing more and nothing less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u61	I will give the floor to the Vice-President of Parliament and to the member of the JRC, Mr Lambroulis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Brutsi-Katrugalo Insurance Act opens the way to the final blow to the social character of insurance and to the formation of an insurance to which access will be provided if you have to pay. This is the freedom you are singing and propagandaing the system you serve and of course goes according to the size of the pocket each has. The crime in insurance is carried out for today, but especially for future generations of workers, young people and young people working in disgusting conditions, and it concerns not only the height or when they will receive a bankruptcy pension, but also health benefits. In other words, it concerns a number of aspects, which are left over, starting with the protection of maternity, child insurance, and their vaccines to medicines and medical examinations, protection against occupational risks, protection of disabled people, etc. Because the State at the basis of policies implemented over time by all the urban governments, in order to serve the strategy of the European Union and capital as cheaper as possible, is gradually withdrawn by reducing the funding of public health units so that money can be channelled to business groups through tax exemptions, tax reliefs, tax exemptions, development packages and goes by saying, on the one hand, only that ensures the worker is the constantly shrinking basic health care package - a poor health facility, while the extra cost is passed on to patients' backs. Thus the State is evolving into a regulator and the insurance prices for health benefits, allowances, etc. and not as it should be in planning the services provided to meet modern folk needs of prevention, primary health care, secondary, tertiary, drug, etc. It is precisely in this policy of withdrawal of the state that EPPY no longer puts a penny on the state, only 100,000 000 for uninsured people, who are not even able to reach their vaccines. EEA revenue comes from the workers' insurance contributions and the 6% sprinkler imposed in 2015, and of course, it was not abolished in the main and supplementary pensions. Only in addition to pension cuts, pensioners have lost over 3 billion in four years, while patients in the last 10 years have paid 57% more for medicines compensated - notable - while state and insurance funds 43% less, not counting as unpaid medicines, unpaid and payments at the same time for a number of benefits cut, such as physico-therapies and others, which are constantly curtailed by the EEA, but forcing the people to put their hands in a deep pocket if they have. So together with the so-called national pension. -..a loop guaranteed by the State, exactly that state guarantees a minimum, a minimum elementary package of health benefits. From there on, whether the people pay at the time of the emergency, or they should resort to private insurance companies that already sharpen their knives or professional funds by paying extra sums for health care packages. This is how insurance is buttoned in the measures already in place to ensure that the urban state ensures a minimum income, a survival pension - and this, of course, is conditional - and at the same time a basic health service cover package, i.e. the most basic ones. This goal has also served a number of previous regulations, such as the famous reform. - at the primary health care department, for which SYRIZA is proud, on a basic mission of the TOMY, the caratosis of the health services covered by the ECYY with the patient should pay from his pocket, if the basic package is exceeded, for the scientifically substantiated health services, which does not cover, however, the ECY and of course do not fit in the anti-scientific protocols which obliges the doctor, in fact, to apply. This objective, for example, serves so-called DLGs, the homogenous diagnostic class costing system, a system which categorizes patients who are in hospitals, not only on the basis of their clinical characteristics but also on the cost of treatment and compensation prices. Clear appreciation of human life! That's what you do, that's what previous people did. And you do it because the capital you serve doesn't change its words and through its representatives, such as the central banker in our country, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, in a private insurance conference, said features that the definition of the World Health Organization as the state of full physical, intellectual and social well-being and not just the absence of a disease or disability, gives rise to individual expectations that are ideal but are unrealistic. Indeed, it has cynically proposed the design of a health system based on two levels, the level of needs covered by the State - that is, a state system with minimal and inadequate benefits, the basic package - and the degree of desire for private insurance. This is the urban perception and policy on health, the prevention of the people, the man today in 2020 that all the prerequisites for ballast development, science and technology, a large number of skilled scientific resources that could meet the ever-enlarged needs for prevention, rehabilitation, in general, the defence of the health of the people. However, this in capitalism that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as well as all other urban parties serves is an unacceptable cost and a waste. You want it to be viewed by the people as a desire and expectation unrealistic. However, what is not a wish but a genuinely modern and realistic view of the people, of the people, of the people, is the claim of a state-owned health care, of a universal, modern, and absolutely free-of-charge health care system, without any business activity that its services will in practice constitute a regulated social asset and not as today, a well-paid commodity, with full state funding of public health establishments, with a corresponding increase in funds in the state budget, with recruitment to personnel, medical equipment and with a reduction in capital, with the abolition of the contributions of workers to the insurance funds sector, where all the examinations, treatments, health material, medicines, vaccines, without payments, without back-up and cuts, according to needs and solely scientific criteria will be provided free of charge. This can be imposed by the people through their struggle, by rejecting this policy, this development path that breaks his life for the sake of a handful of capitalists, strengthening his fight against twists, social security, health, his own life and life. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economic and Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on 26-2-2020: "Following the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Application". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I now call on the Vice-President of Parliament and Mera25, Mr Sakova.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, with a lot of drum impacts comes the government's well-advertised new insurance bill. What's the point of the bill? It is simply a follow-up to the well-known Katorugalos law, that is to say, it is a continuation of previous insurance laws since 2010 and after having been dictated and enforced in our country by the inspirations of the memoranda. The lenders imposed the absolute sacrifice of pension rights on the altar of budgetary objectives which they themselves set and all Greek governments obeyed without objection. Pensioners, existing and future, were the easy target for the economic brains who consciously chose to load the disproportionate burden on their backs to serve the interests of lenders. After so many memoranda of insurance laws, it now seems like we're used to it, and we consider, rather normal, the repeated attack on pension rights. Of course, the introduction of such legislation is always accompanied by a communication attack on alleged increases in pensions, the well-known modernization and salvation of the insurance system, and the restoration of injustices, etc., which unfortunately have nothing to do with reality. And this bill doesn't overthrow the scenery. This is a plan that fully follows the Memorandum of Understanding Strategy on Social Security, although the memorandum is supposed to be over. Despite the attacks carried out by the New Democracy against the Katrugalu Law, today as a government it throws the promises of abolishing it in the basket of inappropriate people, as well as the expectations it created to pensioners. What you are doing today is correct the law of Katrugalo. This is not a reform. You are simply recasting the provisions which have been considered unconstitutional in the Council of State. You are following the policy known as the lenders, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, a policy without social orientation. You don't care about the social effectiveness of the insurance system. You are dealing only with it in a close financial perspective. Besides, the modern liberalism that you want to represent, considers social security and social solidarity as unnecessary burdens. The social face of capitalism is for you obsolete anachronism because it is thought to affect the maximum profitability of capital. That is why the Greek Industrial Association supports you in this direction. You choose strategically the financing of social security more from labour income contributions and less from taxes and capital contributions. Follow the well-known anti-social recipe: increase age limits, decrease supplementation rates, turn to privatization. The aim of this policy, which is clearly unreasonable to social needs, is to limit state funding for pensions from 10% of GDP in 2016 to 5% on average in the period 2018-2070 and, respectively, to keep the total pension expenditure at a low level by 2070, at 12% of GDP. Already the Court of Auditors raises the issue of the legality of the regulations you are proposing, and in particular Articles 20, 21, 24, 25 and 27. The Court of Auditors concludes that it does not conclude that proportionate studies have been drawn up and taken into account in order to be able to establish that the sum of the provisions will be used in the future for the benefit of pensioners and that, in the long term, a fair balance of the wider social interest is not justified, nor is the inability to adopt or the quality of the alternative measures for pensioners. What's going on after all? Who's mocking who? Are there or are there any proportionate studies? You are also incorporating the Single European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Fund into the ECA. So you prescribe the abolition and pillaging of its reserves, about 7 billion. Essentially remove the second pillar of insurance. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech, to refer to all the cases of offences which it introduces or is unauthorized to deal with the bill. For example, I will briefly mention the following. Firstly, the increase in the contributions of the free professionals and farmers and the disconnection of the amount of compulsory income contribution will lead to a reduction in the collection of the contributions with all the adverse consequences for insurance rights and the cash situation of the ECA. Secondly, no provision is taken for those who because of weakness during the crisis were found with accumulated insurance debts, especially in the age category from thirty-five to fifty-five years. This problem must be tackled with a permanent repayment system corresponding, for example, to twenty instalments and by recalculating contributions. Third, engineers insured after 31 October 1992 were obliged to enter into the specific surcharge account repealed on 31 December 2015. Those who have not closed a decade in the account cannot claim reimbursement of the contribution. They must wait for retirement to be attributed only to one or two euros to the payroll. The law is to repay them these contributions. Similarly, in the special increase, there is injustice and unequal treatment in the case of engineers with the same years of service and own contributions based only on whether they applied for retirement before or after 12 May 2016. The first one will receive from the EUR 948 special increase and the second one will only receive EUR 248. Fourthly, you must also address specifically the question of retirement of commands in the Army and in the Security Corps in cases of compulsory repatriation due to an age, grade or crisis. Five. Illegal injustices creates the rigid rule of 40 years, where force majeure could not be complemented. I mention the second generation of political refugees who started working here only when the Greek state itself allowed them to return and there is no special provision for them. Sixthly, the question of the misery of agricultural and livestock workers is not regulated, and you know that there is a serious problem of finding workers in this area. Seventh, and also important, why do you leave without regulation the issue of women who in 2010 had a mature insurance right with the completion of pre-service time in the life expectancy and minor child? Why do you maintain this injustice? Finally, what about the unacceptable delays in the time to pay pensions? Almost three years. Military and civil servants over two years and so on. How will they live? [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I am therefore obliged, Minister, to remind you that, on the basis of the information you mentioned in the drafting of the government's budget statements, I have asked you three times the same question about the situation and the number of outstanding pensions, a minimum parliamentary control action, in order to allow data on delays in the award of pensions to be assessed. It is characteristic that we did not have a single answer on your part. And you will allow me something and I do not want you to consider it populism. I have heard many colleagues in this Chamber say 'who would not want to work longer to get a higher pension'. Ladies and gentlemen, close your eyes and imagine from all of us at an age of seventy years that we should be built up and up the scaffolding and want to get a great pension. Can we? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u65	Good. The next five colleagues are Mr.Polas Andreas, Mrs. Ligolis, Mr. Bukokoros, Mr. Mylonakis and Mr. Logiadis. Mr. Poulas Andreas must come first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the welfare state has suffered enormous damage in the decades of the memoranda. Not only public health, but also the insurance system have overturned so serious that they have brought it down to the family budgets and to the standard of living of the citizens. Pensions that have been reduced within one day have created over-debted households, pensioners in despair and families within the limits of economic tolerance. By the Kakrugalou law, the then government had a distorted image, playing with the impressions and seeking to gain the favor of many, according to its words. In fact, it created a system of failed, with pension reductions, cut and sewn into creditors' measures, which disproportionately adversely placed the productive part of Greek society, in fact by creating 80% of the income, including income taxation. The linking insurance contributions to income created a new distorting situation and closed the eye on tax evasion and tax evasion with victim state revenues and citizens hostages. Meanwhile, the ESS has been abolished by the SYRIZA government, pension applications are stacked, pension calculations are wrong, complaints are filed against the Greek State for their return, and pensioners are forced to live with hunger pensions. Unfortunately, this bill does not escape the logic of L.4387/2016 by making small dispensations, micro-improvements and patches. In accordance with the guidelines of the recent decisions of the Council of State, it essentially accepts and continues the path taken by No.4387/2016, and your claims for insurance reform are far from reality. This is a communal firework that gives the government a populist breath until the hopes of retired people who believed in your election promises are exhausted. On the other hand, with ambitious e-ECA programs you seek to enjoy the impressions of the Katorugalos Act, which you maintain, as you maintain the injustice in calculating the national pensions for the Greek homosexuals of Albania and the Pontou, the low replacement rates for those who have up to thirty years of service and the enormous increases in the retirement age limits to sixty-seven for all or sixty-two with forty-years of service voted on at SYRIZA. In fact, the bill under discussion is moving in a completely wrong direction, firstly, because the EIB incorporates subsidiary insurance and one-off insurance, to the EBRD, opening the way to absorption or even abolishing it, incorporating the 7 billion reserve available to the EBRD to the EBRD. It enables pensioners to return to active action on the pretext of strengthening their income. At the same time, young people who do not find work in our country are leaving abroad frustrated and with no prospect. Thirdly, inequalities are created between employees and self-employed persons, but also between self-employed workers and self-employed persons with large incomes, while at the same time the monthly contribution of at least 80% of those with small incomes is increased. Fourthly, the new ECA, which you propose to operate from 1 to 3-2020, is impossible to set up organisationally and administratively in such a short time, at the same time as the outstanding pensions have reached the glossy figure of fifty-eight thousand. In addition, no discussion is held in your bill on speeding up the award of these pensions, on strengthening the EVA to staff who are forced into unacceptable circumstances to try to follow the requirements of Law No.4387. For them, you have nothing but wishes and utopia about digital pensioning. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens expect real reforms from us. Of course, neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA are politically distinguished in them. Citizens expect brave initiatives, national dialogue and social consensus after dialogue with social and professional bodies. They expect a fair treatment and, above all, the preservation of their dignity. The government proposal extends the Katrugalo Law by correcting it rather than overthrowing it, removing the prospect of a fair insurance reform. It legalises the lower contributions for self-employed persons with high incomes than the average employed person. It motivates employers to turn wage-earning into jobs with a bloc. Finally, it turns to the past and specifically to all our misdeeds who have contributed on the road to bankruptcy and have maintained tax evasion and tax evasion. In any case, if we want to be serious and not trade in hope in hollow and fine words, no reform in the insurance sector is possible unless the tank is filled with new resources, if we do not find extra income for the insurance company, if the insured do not increase, if tax evasion does not stop, if no new well-paid jobs are created, we will simply get out of one pocket of the insurance company and give to the other. We need new resources, new sources and additional water to run on the insurance mill. There is no plan to raise new resources for the insurance system by exploiting public property. But that's not why we can't talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms want political courage. Without national dialogue and without social acceptance, insurance will not be resolved. As long as proportionate studies are produced, the system is far from sustainable. If you do not break away from the old-party reasonable, micro-political purposes and the tactics of party stamp arrangements, the reforms you present will only be communication tools to stay in power. We in the sense of being useful, have made our proposals public, such as the need to restore the tenth pension not as a tip, as SYRIZA did, but as a normal pension. For us in the Change Movement the foundation of a new, sustainable, dynamic insurance system can only be linked to the enlargement of the welfare state and to social solidarity. That is why we are voting against today's bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition "Volumes of the Greeks", thirty students and students and a training session from the General School of Philothei and also twenty-two students and students and three educational sessions from the General High School of Philotheis (Third Department). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] May Mrs. Likouli Evangelia come to Step. Mrs. Liikali, you're very clear, you're a lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill that will become a law and which is almost customary: each government brings its own proposal to insurance, and in the form of tympanocrases and many fanatics, many times, we experience a process that each government is trying to convince us that it will resolve this issue in the dilemma. Today, indeed, I heard your communication campaign, Minister, saying that the government proposal will solve the problem for the next 50 years. And, of course, you can say these things outwards, but when you tell those who are attending Jerusalem, only they bear anger. Of course, every four years, and you will, unfortunately, make your debt against the very political story. So in May 2016, the so-called 'Katrugalou' law was passed, which despite the opposite assurances of the rapporteur, in the conscience of the citizens, unfortunately, not only bears a negative sign, but is registered as the most irreversible law of recent years, which abused the citizens, but also treated them as a spoil to his bosses and handed them over. It was a black page in the historical adventure of the insurance system, a bad and unfair law, which led to many charges of people in despair. Fair and fair, the current government trade, therefore, says that 'we are coming to abolish it'. But that's up to the election, by election. After the election, you forgot everything. It was a nice commitment he left and flew away. What are you actually doing today? You stick more to SYRIZA's earlier law. It's your base. It's your foundation. Make a simple face lift, like an old model, but where it does not in no way create a new model. It is mathematically certain that in the long term this insurance, it will probably be unfair to call it "Brutsi's insurance" and we should call it "Brutsi's insurance" and then stay this in history. However, we are concerned with a number of very sensitive issues, the fine letters, the small ones, those who do not read them very much: the sustainability of the new insurance system. What does it mean, really,'sustainable insurance system'? You're using it these days too. We don't care if it's fair or not? But here, ladies and gentlemen, there is the difference in arithmetic and politics. Sustainability for an insurance system if it is not accompanied by recompense, justice and sensitivity... Minister, you speak so loud that I can't hear my voice. And I'm glad you don't notice me, but at least respect me when I speak. No pension, therefore, could be the solution to the issue. Don't give anything, Nurse, so you'll have sustainability. But is this really our time or the middle ages that you bring back and show to swear to him? Unfortunately, what we are seeing is that the Change Movement once again is confirmed, saying that you are bringing us twelve points "false" to the government's insurance bill. You're telling us too much. Are we really overreacting? A wound isn't for an insurance policy instead of having an inspiring and integrated solution in an excellent century, as you say we're entering, in an excellent year, in 20-20, with double excellence that you symbolize, giving us recesses and patches? Is it not that we are losing another chance to talk to young people, to be able to guarantee them the present and the future of the new generation? Who's listening to you today? Who's listening to us today? Can they hear us today? Are we heard by the children who come from the future to meet us in the present? The generation that actually tells you: "I don't care about insurance and I don't care about pensions, because I won't be here first. I'll be somewhere else. And secondly, it will not concern me at all, because in no case will these arrangements relate to my own generation, three decades after we are discussing, because there will be no pension.' And don't tell me that you don't know, because the eyes are being thrown away, as they say in my village, in private insurance and in a way that isn't stylish. And I would like to say many times in the statements you make about private insurance, because you have been asked and have an interest in everything you say, we are at least very sorry and in no way able to agree on it. Is it not that you are also trying to 'take off the one hand and give to the other everything we need', if you are, as you say, adapting to the decisions of the Council of State on increasing supplementary pensions, but at the same time offsetting the slightly more increased rate of replacement for about half a million pensioners with a corresponding reduction in their personal difference? Aren't the conservative choices, of which there is no provision for the minimum or guaranteed income? Isn't it a hurt to lay the foundations for a purely capitalist system? Or is it not a wound to remain injustices of previous law? I did not understand that, Minister, honestly. I did not understand why you did not accept, with your own legislation today, amendments and accept them, in order to remove injustices from people who have actually suffered very great injustices from the Katrugalo law, such as IKA's insured mothers, minors, more polytecs, which retrospectively in the irrational and shameful way they were caring for and sent to retirement 15 years later. Is it not the creation of new injustices, even in relation to the problematic law in force? Or is it not a wound that we never think of the rural world and its insurance cover and the great injustices that this insurance system is even more pronounced? Isn't it a failure not to create counter-incentives for tax evasion and evasion? That's all wounds. And, of course, the new agency, e-ECA, is stepping up the existing problems once the outstanding pensions are already up by 4,000 a month. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, you have absolutely no plan on how to deal with this until you complete it, as you say - God has - this system. And I am not sure, Minister, that the God of Greece will put his hand back. Because he will invoke us at the end, as we now do in the islands. God put his hand on it. And because I heard the President of the Greek Solution, I didn't understand if he was hurt by the chemicals that they threw on the islands or that they were out of date. Because he talked about the finished chemicals. We're tempted by chemicals, and that the chemicals were gone. If they were gone, we didn't go into such details. So we must not solve the problems at the metaphysical level. We need to solve the problems at the natural level. And you know what the natural level is: to judge us all the history and the children who see us from the gallery today. And the others that don't see us on television. And children who are not involved in politics because they prefer to deal with life itself. But, really, if politics doesn't touch life, then what is it? An empty shirt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u69	Mr. President, may I answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Mylonakis, you're right after Mr. Bukoro. What can you say? If you're going to tell your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u71	We cannot falsify what is said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u72	Okay. You will reply to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u73	...that he was hurt by the chemicals that were gone. No, Mrs. Litikoli. He's been hurt by chemicals in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u74	Okay. You can develop it in your speech too. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the country's insurance system. But what's the insurance system? It is our common umbrella, our common fund, which concerns all Greek workers and pensioners. Should the resilience of such a tool not be a concern of the state? Sustainability? Prosperity? Should it not be judging by justice and returning to the greatest possible extent? I think these are things we all agree on. There may have been too many mistakes in the country's insurance systems over the last few years, but also in the fact that we have been giving pensions to people for forty years and this has burdened the insurance system. And a number of other wrong choices. But what does that mean? That we had to go to Mr. Katrugalo's previous insurance system, which clearly was wrongful to whole working classes? So we said that the insurance system is our common umbrella and our common fund. And his viability is interesting. Because without her, it's pointless to discuss any other details. And what's the insurance bill we're talking about today? It is not said by the Minister, nor by the government's MPs. First of all, it brings for the first time an in-depth study of the viability of the system itself, which tells us that with this data, with those authorities that put this insurance system, it has a sustainability by 2070. In other words, he sees in future the new generations and the children who are now watching us from the gallery. Because the mistake in my personal view of the country's previous insurance systems was that they remained oriented and attached to the present. What are we gonna do now? How to tax the Greek citizen to possibly give a higher pension or to get more Greeks and faster to retirement. But this is not an insurance system. This is a mismanaged fund. And the fund called the insurance system must concern us with its viability in terms of its well-being. Because under the previous law, which increased the premiums to freelance professionals, it loaded one more tax bill on the back of the professions. Connecting the premiums to the income, what did he do? Did he give more money to this joint fund? Since 2016, the previous law was passed, until 2017, the loss of revenue from the freelance professionals and only, of insurance income, insurance premiums reached the amount of EUR 420 million. This means that the insurance system was completely in the wrong direction. Minister, in fact the insurance system you bring us here is not a great revolution. But it's the revolution of selfishness: the more you work, you work, the more you retire. I think there is no fairer principle than that. Indeed, Minister, you are favouring some. But let us see who favours the insurance system currently proposed by Mr Brutsi. Doesn't it favour young people? We've suffered this huge brain bleeding in recent years. They're leaving our kids for the outside, and we don't know if they're coming back. He says to them: "Decreased premiums for five years, to make your start, whether you're a scientist or a professional." What did Mr. Katrugalu's previous insurance system say? "Yes, I am reducing your premiums in the first five years, but you must return these reductions." I mean, once you start walking, creating, being in a skilled position, the burdens of the past must be chasing you and turning you back. Wasn't that a miserable, narrow-minded, miserable treatment of young people at such a time? So he's coming to cure this new insurance system. And he says, "I'm just helping you get started. I'm not asking you back for the help I have to give you as a state." Isn't that just a warning difference between the two systems? Who else helps - favours, if you want - the insurance system? Free traders, scientists, doctors, lawyers, engineers, craftsmen, traders, farmers. Who are all these ladies and gentlemen? Aren't they the ones paying us all? Aren't they the ones who produce in the security business and in the security? Where if they don't tax, the state's machine doesn't work? Aren't they the ones who generate taxes for all of us, for all of us's payrolls? Should we put another tax on their backs? Isn't that a warning difference too? Who others favor? Employees with the reduction of non-wage labour costs. For this year, 1%. A reduction that will continue until 2023 and will see a slight relief in their earnings. The employees, the permanent mortgages. Don't we all say it? Aren't we yelling at that? Farmers who, in order to keep their land, had no successor status, to keep working on their land, had to retain 67% of their poor pension, in accordance with the Katrugalou law. And today's law comes and says, "You will keep your cultivation. And you will not be withholding your pension." Does the desolation of the countryside not concern anyone in this place? I could quote more charges. But I think it is the points that differ from the current insurance bill, what we will vote on Thursday night, compared with the previous one. And a bill can be compared only with the previous one. We need to compare similar times and similar things and not to say what happened ten years ago. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that the opposition is coming today and says: 'But pensions are being reduced, because the budget includes 200 million less'. But is that so, having calculated the thirteenth pension that was a baptism on the part of SYRIZA? You gave 900 million in election before the European elections and baptised a 15th pension. If we pay a full pension to all pensioners, that's 2,300,000. So how'd you get the 900,000,000 and baptize your thirteenth retirement? And it escapes you that the insurance bill now provides 0.5% of GDP each year for strengthening the country's insurance system. This is a billion that will be extended over the years. This also contributes to the sustainability and well-being of the system. What convenient accounts are those of the Opposition? I would like to congratulate the Minister, because a bill of this kind, such as insurance, cannot favour everyone. It is enough for us at the moment that it is not wrong for anyone. And it's a bill that looks into the future and sees the new generation in the eyes and sends the message that they come to our place for better in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution. Mr. Logiadis, Mr. Bartzokas, Mr. Kamines and Mr. Kavvadas will then speak. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, something is happening in the Kingdom of New Democracy. It's no different. Just ten days ago, in an intervention by the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, on the pensions of the North-East and the Greek-Points, the Prime Minister rose - here he was - and promised that the issue would be resolved. All of a sudden, we see that there is no care for these people's pensions. Why? Two things happen. And please take a look at it, because it's very serious. Or the Prime Minister no longer holds a Prime Minister, or you are the potential Prime Minister. It can't be, my Minister. Despite my appreciation, it can't be done. You seem to be a potential Prime Minister. Do what you want. This is an issue that you must solve, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You are now applauding an insurance system, which is called the 'insurance reform', Minister. I would like to take you a few years back to see how many times this insurance reform has been heard. But I would like to ask one thing: Looking at the Greek people, you must say - and we must all say, Mr Boukoro, that he has too much viability - where the money of the Greek workers, the pensioners of today, when in 2000 the insurance funds were stable and destroyed in the first place with this stupidity at the time of the Exchange. You remember the company "EKA" very well and how it shared the money and put them on the Stock Exchange and pushed them. We come to our 2007 sinful bonds. Or maybe we don't remember that. We're coming to the PSI. billions lost the insurance funds. And now you're coming to say that we're starting an insurance system from the beginning. And the money of the Greek pensioners went for a walk. From what? From the criminal policies of the New Democracy and PASOK. We have come to discuss today the insurance bill, which is a continuation of the insurance bill, the poor construction of Mr. Katrugalos. You were yelling at that time that it's a crime that Mr. Katrugalos does and that pensioners lose money. Tell us, in addition to this, which affects the current insurance system and which is decisions of the Council of State and a couple of micro-corrections, which other ladies may come and say 'I have solved the problems for the next 50 years'. At the same time as we are talking about the insurance bill that burns all Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, our compatriots on the islands are suffering. And I heard Mrs Lykoulis saddened to falsify what the President of the Greek Solution said earlier, Mr Velopoulos, about the chemical ending. It's not enough that they fall chemically, it's gone. It's 1981. That's the truth. You're destroying the country. You're destroying Greece. There is a body battle on the islands of the Northeast Aegean. SYRIZA beat the people who were shouting that the Prespecies Agreement is disgusting. New Democracy now comes to beat the Greeks of the fart islands, because they want their islands back, they want their lives back. That's the situation. The bill, as I said, is visually and unlike that of the Katrugalos Act, except for a number of issues. And I'll say the fairy tales that you're going through, Minister, telling the Greek people that everything goes before. Did you see, ladies and gentlemen, anywhere any public social, insurance, fair and decent system for the Greek people, the Greek retired person who has so far paid for a sack of money and come to the end and say, 'Take a steak'? Is it possible for a man to live at EUR 380? How will a retired person live? You said about the thirteenth pension. You voted for it. Now, you say it was an allowance. When you voted, it said 'the third pension'. Where is she? Where'd she go? You forgot her, too. Do you know, what's the low wage in the countries that move our fingers? The representative of the Communist Party of Greece said yesterday. Ours said it, too, Mr. Villardus. But you can't understand it. When Germany has a lower salary of EUR 1370, when France has the same, when Luxembourg has a lower salary at EUR 1780, at EUR 1800, and we are at EUR 480, with EUR 500, can a man live and schedule his life? Will the young man be able to get married? What's he gonna do? What will first pay for EUR 500 and for another EUR 500 - I say - where will his wife get? With 700 euros and 700 euros, what will it first pay? Will he pay the rent and all those taxes you've put in? Because I don't have much time, I want to tell you about some things. You're telling us fairy tales. Not even 10%, Minister, does not increase. And you know it very well. You spoke for a hundred, fifty thousand. There are two and a half million retired people. Those who do not take a small difference, it is immediately eaten by the personal difference of the hollow Karugulos. Because that's what Karugalos did. He put in a box, in a parentheses, a number with random calculation. He made a calculation of a logarithm, which came to some people's minds at that time. And as you now say, you have two proportionate studies, and he told us then that there were proportionate studies from the universities in Italy and I don't know where else. These are Halima's fairy tales. We agree that you have two proportionate studies. I personally saw them and read them. But these are adapted to the current data, Minister. 90% of the professions will increase their insurance contributions. The minimum contribution from EUR 185 goes to EUR 220. So they're falling too. Of course you say it'll be by 2070. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by: You know very well that the revenues in the social security system are from three sources: state funding, employee and employers' contributions and movable and immovable property of the insurance funds. The first two people spoke. I want to ask where the real estate and movable property of the insurance funds went when you broke it up, not just you, but SYRIZA and you built an EVA, a giant with clay legs and you put the ‘e’ in front of it and it's done e - EVA? You can call him whatever you want. Where's the property of the insurance funds? The real estate went to the HICP. Thousands of properties of the insurance funds went to the S.H.I.E.L.D. So the workers' money from 1950 to today has disappeared. Others have become T.I.E.L.D. and are ready for the lenders to do whatever they want. The movable property of 36 billion was in 2009, the money that was in the insurance funds. Where is he now? How much money is there now? Can anyone tell us, Minister? I would like an answer for the money, the mobile and real estate of the insurance funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u78	As you know, the President-in-Office of the Council has signed the minutes of the sittings and because he was presiding when he happened and there was a timely question from the Communist Party, I think Mr Katsotos to Mr Brutsis, on the pensions of the North-West people, was quite clear that this is a fair request and will be satisfied with a solution that I believe we will all vote on. I asked him from a microphone to tell us the timetable and Mr Brutsis said: 'Finally March, early April'. The Prime Minister confirmed the government's will to resolve this issue without saying a timetable, because he obviously had contacted his Minister and what Mr Brutsis said is true. And because before I sign the minutes, I read them, so I remembered. Mr. Logiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a day of shame and regret here to speak of insurance as a system of recognition of all humanity and of time when we see in Lesvos and Chios what is happening with the enormous problem of refugees. The pension funds worldwide will have a hole of about 16 trillion dollars by 2050. One study, drawn up by Mark Carney, the bank governor of England, Lawrence Summers, Timothy Guitner, former US Finance Ministers, German Conservative Axel Webber, suggests motivating those who want and can stay and prolong working life. You, Minister, do exactly the opposite with your bill. What pensions are we talking about, though, when I see that in Germany at the moment over three hundred thousand German pensioners cannot afford the cost of living there and look for countries with a lower cost of living to live in the last few years? The system drives them out and we all knew about the strong social state in Germany. That is where pan-European austerity has led with disastrous consequences. If this does not change radically, as we in the DIEM25, the Pan-European Movement and the Mera25 here in Greece, it is not going to be solved and the pension is going to change radically, what I told Yiannis Varoufakis then as Finance Minister: "Do not pay pensions to pay the International Monetary Fund." The state budget that we have voted on provides for 220 million less for pensions from 2019 to 2020. So less available income, even when we know that pensioners, even with these few crumbs, support the younger unemployed members of their families. For the payroll rates you say you are increasing, who will have worked for forty years today, when part-time work, four-hour work, the one-day contract, is now in force? How easy and possible can a worker have nine thousand days of insurance, taking into account also the high unemployment? The bombs at the base of insurance are many: fertility, unemployment, low growth rates, depreciation of labour, overtaxation, increased life expectancy, low wages, corruption, deinvestment in the economy and, of course, the primary surpluses. Of course the bill will also be passed by the government majority, but it is far from being a social majority. Structural bills, such as today, which run long-term society and concern everyone, must be given a different understanding, national understanding. The New Democracy, with almost 40% of those who voted, legislates for the whole of society. The system is not proportionate and fair. So, when the government changes, go back to the beginning. This does not, however, inspire policy and the citizen to the perpetuality, seriousness and timelessness of security. Mr. Stasinos, President of the Technical Chamber of Greece, told the committee not to change every two years the law, that there is a concern in the calculation of pensions, that his colleagues do not believe that they will once be retired, so they will choose lower steps. And Mr Kavathas from GATT said that the core of insurance must be the recovery of workers' confidence in the insurance system. What confidence, however, can the citizen now have when his state has cut down, reduced retirement, favours the possibility of decent living in the last few years of his life, after the labor of so many years of work? No trust! But trust is the basis of society. When the State has poured out the funds of the pension funds, what confidence can the worker have in the state, Minister? During the crisis, while GDP decreased by 25%, pensioners suffered a total reduction of more than 50%. At the same time, it is well known, as I said, that they support their unemployed children or their grandchildren. They are the weak link of the social chain. The main Prime Minister was explicitly committed in August 2018 and February 2019 to abolishing the Katorugalou law. On the contrary, however, it consolidates him. The bill is a genuine child of the memorials and strengthens the Katorugalou law. I'm gonna read a quote from GSEW. "The Ministry of Labour has resulted in the choice of the refund to the insurance class model - category with the notified difference in the free choice of the insurance category by the insured person." The new system of contributions proposed abolishes the possibility of linking the contribution with income until the end of the year. It should, however, be noted that linking the contribution to income ensures better conditions for a fair and proportionate insurance system. The free choice of insurance is attractive in particular for medium and large incomes. This is an element of distortion of competition in favour of higher incomes. Those who could choose a high share of premiums will do so by private funds rather than by the state. So we'll see a further privatisation through the back door of the insurance. Special attention must be paid to our people with disabilities, not only because their living costs are multiples of other citizens, not only because this group has the highest unemployment rate of 92%, but above all because a society is distinguished by the care and care it gives the weaker. And listen - listen - the disabled person who is insured in OAU, if they are married, loses the paraplegic allowance, and if he is divorced, they will not return it to him. They leave him without an allowance. That logic and the justice of your system. Also for miners. What miner can work over forty years under the earth? The new pension system is uneven, toxic and classic. Those who have not been able to work for a sufficient number of years and with high earnings are doomed to low pensions. What social group, who is insured, who is a pensioner today at a minimum happy today? I would like to close by saying that the pensioner is the weak link of the social chain. A society is like a net and the net can withstand as much as its weakest link. That link we need to help, stand by. These are the unjust persons who saw that they were suddenly reduced unjustly and immorally by the poor pensions without being able to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u80	We are moving with our colleague from New Democracy, Mr. Bartzokas Anastasio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Brutsi, but also his staff, because we should not forget the people who really contribute to this important work. You deserve congratulations not only on the positive provisions and on the legal and developmental nature of this reform, but also because, at last, the word'reform' is restored. Over the past decade of the economic crisis, the reform has lost its meaning and its positive statement. It was linked only to the reductions in income, reductions in pensions and a burden on the living conditions of Greek citizens. ‘Reform’ means a change in the structure of a mechanism with the aim of radically reforming it. And with the new insurance we can talk about real areas that ensure the basic principles that must serve an insurance system, sustainability, justice, reciprocity and security. It has been mentioned several times in the committee that this bill has been drafted, that for the first time it is accompanied by a proportionate study. So there is the scientific documentation that the insurance system is not at risk of being blown into the air in the coming years. Efforts at national level will not be dragged under the threat of the collapse of the insurance system. But I mention it for another reason. The Qualified Opposition has indulged the New Democracy, that it does not respect parliamentary procedures. I would therefore advise colleagues to be more careful about the ethos of the language they use, especially since almost five years after the implementation of the Katrugalos law, we have been advised to continue looking for accompanying proportionate study on the Internet. Speaking and as a freelance professional, I would like to comment on the bill in the light of the restoration of the injustice that we have experienced in previous years. An insurance system cannot function as a quasi-tax system. The tax, the insurance. It shall not become the freelance professional, regardless of the sector in which he is active, to pay insurance contributions on the basis of his income. Apart from this being an anti-incentive to its productivity, all the studies, which I do not understand why Skillful Opposition rejects, confuses the conclusion that it is the biggest incentive to tax evasion, so lower revenues in state funds and the need for additional cut-off measures. In addition, the linking of insurance contributions to income, particularly when it is not accompanied by a high recompense for pensions, also acts as a factor to escape production potential abroad. We have already seen this very strongly. I therefore welcome the new insurance system of contributions, which completely disconnects insurance contributions from the declared income, the years of work and the minimum wage. I also welcome the favour of reduced contributions for new entrants for the first five years, because we are thus making it easier for the country's most competent, productive potential to enter the labour market and to stay in its place. I would also like to pay particular attention to the positive provisions of the draft law on farmers. From Imathia, I am well aware of both the dynamics of the primary sector in economic development and the problems of the rural world. The exclusion of Imathia's products from the large market in Russia, combined with the ten-year economic crisis, impoverished farmers financially. Excessive taxation, their burden on unprecedented insurance, together with increases in agricultural supplies, has literally kneeled them. I believe that the possibility of a free choice of the insurance category is beneficial to them. I think it is even more beneficial for the provision that provides that they are excluded from the reduction in the rate of retirement if they continue to work while they are retired. Because as we all know well, those who come from rural areas, when you grow land, never go out on the substance of the pension. However, from this step I call for greater care for the rural world. Today's bill, along with the tax reductions already voted on, is an important step. However, our path is certainly a long one. In closing, I want to focus on the most basic principle of the insurance system. It's nothing but security. The Greek state has been unbreakable since the principle of social rule of law. And a social state means, in addition to access to public health and education goods, ensuring quality work for all Greek citizens, as well as ensuring pensions, ensuring that the current pensioner and the future worker are able to maintain a decent standard of living. In observing the 'creating agreement' which we signed with the Greek people, the New Democracy guarantees, in this bill, that workers will be retired. And while respecting the 'truth Agreement' when we were electorally saying that no pension will be cut, we come and do so. So no pensions, with the law we are debating today, these days, are not being reduced. On the contrary, most of the contributions are increased and the contributions are reduced. It is our duty, therefore, to the future generations, and it is our duty to those who have made bloody sacrifices in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u82	We're moving on with Mr. Kamine from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, insurance puts three fundamental dilemmas on the distribution of the wealth produced. The first is among those who are involved in production and those who are no longer involved, but who have established a right to the wealth produced through their contributions in the past. The second dilemma is between the principle of reciprocity as a recognition of everyone's practical personal contribution and the need for social solidarity. "A society that has not left behind anyone" was the response of European socialists for decades. The third dilemma concerns the management of the wealth produced. Is it limited exclusively to distribution between the various social groups or part of it returning as reinvestment and creation of new wealth? But you can't talk about the insurance if you haven't hurt the demographic, development and political system before. I begin with the political system with two examples: The first is that the so-called 'Yannitsis' law contained regulations which were more favourable than those we are discussing today. Society, however, considered that things would evolve linearly. And this society left the political system unintentional because it was afraid to reveal the truth. The second example: Ten years after the endless attempt, Yannitzi, the economic crisis is falling apart. The political system does not only manage to reach agreement on the basics, but leads the country to extremes. Mass pensions lead us from now on: While pension expenditure in 2009 was at 31 billion, in 2012, despite the huge pension cuts, the abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, the hunger pensions, pension expenditure increased and went to 34 billion. Demographic: In 1975 the ratio between retired workers was 3.66, or 3.66 workers corresponded to a pensioner. In 2018, it was down to 1,3. The population, according to EUROSTAT, in 2070 will be reduced to eight and a half million, but also to one/3 of the population, or much more, will be at the third age, while Greece is the lowest, almost, of youth. What evidence do we have? A proportion of retired workers who tend to be one to one, a pension expenditure that reaches one fifth of GDP, a society that is constantly ageing and a weak economic growth is also decreasing. So the equation won't come out. The country will continue to block its future and transgenic justice will remain an empty letter. As far as development is concerned, it is not at all an easy thing and certainly not as easy as the bulldozers who enter the Greek. It is certainly not easy to develop when we are in foreign investment, which many of them do not even create jobs. And we will certainly not have growth when changes in justice, such as the transition to the digital age, the speeding up of trial, the mediation that has been introduced, but the great opponent of every investment, i.e. public administration, is desperately lacking. However, all the investments that affect investment are degraded by the political system itself, which still does not dare to fight itself. Is that what we have an integrated reform plan? It is only the opinion of the Court of Auditors. Let us not have any illusions, this is not something radically new. The Court of Auditors tells us. It tells us, by word, that it has kept the trunk of the Katrugalo Law and has moved to significant changes. The bill also weakens the nature of solidarity. The replacement coefficients remain as they are up to thirty pension years and are increased for more than thirty years. I understand the reason for providing an incentive to remain at work, but it contains two structural problems. The first is that it does not weigh to the extent that we need solidarity for low-pensioners. If we should weigh - I would at least do it - between raising a pension of EUR 1 000 or EUR 1,500, an increase of EUR 80 or 100 per month, or a corresponding increase in pensions of EUR 450 per month, I would choose the second. Because the EUR 450 is now being tested for human dignity. The second is that it does not weigh solidarity towards the generations that come. Does anyone really think today that with the unemployment among young people, which had passed over the years of the crisis, even 50%, will the current young people be able to complete forty-five years in order to have satisfactory rates of replacement for their pensions? With Article 27 in paragraph 1, what do we tell young people? They read that if you are a retired over sixty-two and you are employed in the public sector, you are normally receiving all your allowance and your entire pension. In other words, what we say to the new generation is: you can become a comfortable hospital commander in your eighty two with a party choice with wage and pension. But if you are twenty-five years old, you will work for 500 euros or at best for 700 or 800 for an undetermined future. Let's go for poverty management, or we'll find new resources. There is no plan at all to draw up new resources. We reproduce a model that consumes our flesh, which creates social automation, which returns the produced wealth at the lowest social rate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating these days an issue that has come to us up to about 17.5% of GDP, almost a sixth. I mentioned that insurance poses major questions and huge dilemmas. They are questions about the historical responsibilities of the political system, conflicts between social groups, dilemmas for young people who want to stay in their country, but to fight, to create, to have a family and are called upon to do so with the lousy wages I have mentioned. These are dilemmas and contradictions that cross horizontal and vertical social groups and bravery and create inequalities. It is a battle in the end with itself and international competition, and we need to see the great picture. Do we want a country that is small and marginalised in the European Charter for the next thirty, forty and forty years? Do we want an ageing country, delivered to the misery of redistribution of inequalities on the basis of the electoral influence of various groups that guarantee accessibility to closed power systems? Do we want a country left to the least common denominator? As everywhere today in insurance, we need a new social agreement that obviously contains elements of self-awareness. We need to see what we did wrong, what it was for the crisis. But above all a social agreement, which will talk about the future and where we want to go. This goes through a common view of the big, the basic, the national issues, and one of them is, of course, the insurance and there they no longer fit together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u84	Mr Cavadas, Member of the New Democracy Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last ten years almost every year, at least one bill with rules on insurance, pensions, contributions and the funds has been in the House. Especially after the economic crisis occurred, the absolute need to reform the insurance system, in order to be at least in the medium term sustainable, has become more pronounced than ever. Of course, the problem did not appear with the crisis, but in the context of the crisis there have been conditions which have exacerbated it, such as the rapid increase in unemployment and long-term unemployment, which have dramatically reduced the contributions that fuelled insurance. To date, when the citizen was listening to insurance reform, he was preparing to tighten the belt with the exception of the specs for the thirteenth pension. There the citizens received the allowance with joy, knowing that there was never a thirteenth pension, because there is not just the financial area. The supposedly tenth pension was an allowance that the previous government gave before the elections for electoral reasons, effectively wasting the available resources of the social dividend and no matter what. Today's bill is essentially the first bill for ten years which does not include any reduction in pensions instead there will be increases. It is a bill establishing a legal pension system, designed to enable it to function until 2070. It is studied because, as has been said several times, it is accompanied by a specific proportionate study. It's fair because it's rewarding. The longer one's worked, the longer one gets retired. And of course, the greater contributions he has paid during working life the better his earnings will be when he retired. The rates of contributions for freelance professionals are disconnected from factors such as years of work and minimum wages, regardless of the possibility for each insured person to pay contributions. It is therefore possible for everyone to choose a category solely according to what it can pay and what it wants to get pension and at the advantage of it. Because by reducing the tax rate for the first EUR 10,000 from 22% to 9% the netting of the reduction in taxation with insurance contributions will have for the vast majority of the insured positive figure. Moreover, special categories such as farmers, farmers and fishermen, but also new free professionals, are subject to particularly favourable schemes. Ladies and gentlemen, all of these and many other provisions make the new insurance bill an intrusion in the timing of our insurance system. However, no insurance system will ever be fair unless it succeeds in giving the pensions to the insured since the first day they are entitled to them. The problem is old and well-known. In recent years, however, following the debacle of EKKA in the government of SYRIZA, following the irrationality and the sloppiness with which the organization began to operate, we have seen unprecedented situations: one million outstanding main and ancillary pensions, one single, widow’s pensions and recalculations. What welfare state can anyone claim to exist when they wait for pensioners two and three years for their pensions? What social justice is it that anyone has worked thirty, thirty-five years, to pay contributions and to be forced to be begg or at best to live with temporary retirement until the state is tied up to get him to normal? This is, in my view, the great bet here in this bill and the greater and more substantial reform of the pension system. The government will fight this monster of bureaucracy, which was gigantic in the past two years on two fronts, firstly, with economies of scale, i.e. with administrative and organisational integration of the insurance system, so that, for example, successive pensions do not need three different operators for a pension file, it is enough for one, which will be able by digital means to monitor him from the beginning and reach him to the end. Secondly, he will fight it with the ATLAS system, which after 1 June 2020 is expected to award the first digital pensions and help decongested the system from the outstanding cases. If we are able, ladies and gentlemen, not a single citizen feels the need for a pension for our political offices, we will have succeeded. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill contains beneficial arrangements for both employees and freelance professionals. For example, the pension pay for all insured persons is calculated by the pay of fourteen months, and not twelve months, as some people allow it to be understood, serving party purposes. The free professionals, who paid extermination contributions, linked to their income, now have the right to free choice: they can choose an insurance category without having to do with the years of working life. There is provision for new professionals and self-employed persons with insurance up to five years of age to pay 136 euros per month and join the subordinate category of contributions to the new system. Finally, I would like to thank Minister Brutsi, who has listened to the agony of the retired soldiers, the security bodies and the Armed Forces, as they themselves have been transferred to him and to me, for those who are already working, improving the original proposal, so that the new law will apply after two years, and not after one as planned. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to ensure full sustainability of insurance, four employees are required for each pensioner. At the moment, the ratio is 1,7 employees for each pensioner. In this ratio, no insurance system can respond. This is why the government, along with the new insurance, supports growth, investment and the labour market. It encourages investment and ensures more and more quality jobs, while at the same time looking towards the future it takes steps to address the country's major demographic problem. So, with realism and social ambition, the New Democracy Government is going on to guarantee both workers and retired people of work, today and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u86	We are moving with our colleague from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Synchronakis Manolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. The Katrugalo-Brutsi County Anti-Safe, brought by the Government of New Democracy, is a miserable, classic and deeply reactive. Together you have built it, all of you, by including pension rights of workers, who have labored, sweated and long-term bloody struggles. So you are all accountable to the people over the years to the detriment of millions of workers and, above all, the new generation, which will suffer the greatest consequences of reinsurance crime. You consider the reduced pensions, the abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, the increases in the pension thresholds for both men and women in sixty-seven years, the division of the single pension into national and payroll, the stolen reserves. You change the method of calculating the monthly insurance contributions, the self-employed and the selfemployed, for the main pension sector, by introducing six insurance categories for all the members of the former AIFM, plus a special insurance category for young self-employed and self-employed persons, for the first five years after the start of the activity. You show the choice of an insurance category as a freedom of choice, while it is a freedom to choose their slaughter, which leads to the abolition of proportionality, to the reimbursement of insurance contributions, by favouring the income-insurance upper points. An entrepreneur, for example, with 80,000 euros will pay the same wage as a self-employed person who has 8 000 euros income, can choose a category of his choice, get rid of the unjustified burden of contributions to the funds, and if he wants to be able to join a private insurance scheme. On the contrary, the lower income segments will necessarily opt for low contributions, which is only low, when the lower contribution rises to EUR 220 out of EUR 185, therefore low pensions, or is in debt with the funds, which leads to the loss of the pension right. You're messing with the principle of efficiency as fairer, that is what you're getting. It is deeply reactionary, it relieves the state of the obligation to contribute to the pension and to cover all the health and welfare of the insured as well as the large businesses, completely eliminating the benefits, thereby cancelling the social nature of the insurance system. It will also accept optional inclusion in the supplementary insurance system and the right to a decent pension, which is fragmented and converted into individual gambling, through the drastic reduction of national and payroll pensions. There is nothing to guarantee with the compulsory contributions to the EBRD, bearing in mind the theft of more than EUR 200 billion, theft of pharmacological proportions of the reserves of the insurance funds, the continuous reductions in pensions and high health contributions. Continuous, repeated looting, also with the bogeyman of the state, who has never guaranteed the rewarding pension. So now: not even insurance contributions through the replacement coefficients can be guaranteed, when they can change at once, depending on the investment horizons of capital. Let me remind you of the 3.5 billion in 1999-2002, who made wings overnight through the Stock Exchange, ending up in the capitalists' pockets. Now you are ready for the new theft, to channel the 100 billion reserves into the capital market to support the investments of business groups. The Minister is desperately trying to justify, with perforated arguments, the increase in insurance contributions, invoking the reduction in income tax rates for self-employed and all employees. It hides consciously that self-employed people with lower income pay income tax than the first euro, pay an insurance contribution much higher, are charged for many years with debts, which have been charged to taxi, cash, banks, PPC, suppliers and goes by saying, with the hacking over their head. You deliberately pass the endless carpets, the trade fee, HISBIA, municipal fees, indirect taxes, which you have all loaded them over time to cover their medical care, children's education, electricity, heating and so much more. No substantial relief will be seen. Only the sum of income tax, trade fee and insurance contributions touches 50% for incomes of 8 000 euros, while 40% of the self-employed today is unable to pay for his contribution normally. Equally false is the argument that, with the increases in the lower levy and the replacement rates for over thirty to forty years of insurance, pensions will be paid and that they will ensure a decent living for pensioners. In practice you keep the humiliating coefficients of the Katrugalo Law for the first thirty years of insurance and this is the main. If you wanted to give pension increases, you would proceed with the improvement of the replacement rates, the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, full and decent pensions in thirty years of work, as the JRC proposes, because this is the real modern and innovative one so that workers can live with dignity when they are retired. In addition, modern production opportunities allow it. However, the great loser is women self-employed in bad working relationships without the protection of maternity with the unacceptable equation of the retirement thresholds to sixty-seven years and degrading pensions. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. It is questionable whether they will collect forty years insurance contributions for full pension when they have been employed for many years as assistant members in the family business. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Communist Party of Greece insurance is not individual responsibility or is treated as a cost. Social security, public guaranteed universally and compulsoryly for all is a social right and includes pension rights, health prevention and rehabilitation services, benefits and social welfare services. So your abortion is a cause of war and it is not legalized in the conscience of the workers. They cannot compromise life with limited rights and benefits, with the job to accompany them to the deep ages to give her place to a poor pension that does not even cover the elementary. So they are not fooled by the misleading dispute between you. The answer is one, which we condense into a mandarin: If the people and their bonds are to be broken, they can build a shower and he can spoil. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u88	You've compensated us with the mandarin, Mr. Synthraki. Mr Stylus, New Democracy MP, has the floor. Until he arrives, I inform you that my colleagues Mr Tsavdaridis, Mr Aylonite, Mr Santorinios and Mr Skondra will follow. Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today, the issue of social security and pensions, insurance is one of the greatest and most complex problems of our time. It's not just a question of economics. It is developmental, it has a social dimension, it is not only about the present, but also about the next generations that they do not decide today. The insurance is a large part of the social contract. It requires great social consensus. It is a matter of profound importance, as his policies must serve specific philosophies of how we as a society build the present, we see the future, we stand alongside the weakest, but, above all, it is a problem that cannot be solved by just one legislative intervention. It requires close monitoring of the demographic, economic and labour data of each age and period. It requires continuous intervention at regular intervals in order to enable the system's main objectives to be served over time. But above all, it requires truth, honesty, good faith from all parties, participation and responsibility of all the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to go into the reasons why I think the bill brings significant and good changes. Firstly, it's a reliable bill. It shall adopt all decisions of the Council of State. The whole process of good and good legislation followed, there was dialogue, exchange of views during the consultation and, most importantly, it is the first bill based on two integrated proportional studies, both for main and ancillary insurance. Its credibility is confirmed and demonstrated by the fact that there is acceptance by our European partners. Secondly, it reflects a different philosophy, as the new insurance is simple, more rewarding, so more fair. Compensation increases after thirty years of insurance, where rates of replacement are increased, and this is to enable the labour system to stay for thirty, thirty-five and forty years. It does not punish the work, as the previous law currently in force, by SYRIZA, does, but it encourages it to stay. The new insurance disconnects contributions from the income that the insurance company had actually converted into tax and has led to a large tax evasion. Over two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals closed their blocks. 80% of employers - I say it again, 80% of employers - reportedly GFCM figures declared incomes below EUR 20,000 per year. It exempts freelance professionals who are also employed in another profession from double and triple contributions. Thirdly, it operates developmentally, motivates work, for the growth of many and more jobs, because everyone knows, and the workers, but above all employers, their obligations, in simple terms, to be able to plan their moves over time. Fourthly, there is special care for all new free professionals and not only for young scientists, as was the case to date, for reduced contributions of up to 50% for the first five years of insurance without the obligation and commitment that these insurance contributions of the first five years of work should then be attributed as was the case with the previous legislation that existed to date. Fifth, it gives freedom of choice to the insured. They are given the opportunity to choose their insurance category, but they are allowed at the beginning of each year to change it either up or down. Sixth, there is a major and important reform - perhaps the most important thing in this bill - the digital transformation of our insurance system, e-ECA, which is one of the most serious innovations and the main axis of the new legislation. For the first time, digital processing is being introduced and the insured person will be able to integrate the database, as well as in general the digitalisation of all social security functions, i.e. the electronic provision of attestations, certificates, cross-checks, the issue of pensions, and each time the insured person will be able to know what he expects and what he expects with the contributions he has given for his pension in the future. The previous government, SYRIZA, in all other things, inherited too many, hundreds of thousands of outstanding pensions. Our pensioners, especially in successive insurance, have been waiting for more than two and three years to be issued and for all the pensions they apply for. This, ladies and gentlemen, was a shame and must finally be stopped. And they deserve credit for today's leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But I would also like to make a reference to the health contributions that I expect in the future with another legislation. In the contributions paid by the free traders, there is a fixed amount. However, in the contributions paid by the employees, this amount goes on the basis of their wages. I think that in future there should also be a cross-check. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a special reference to farmers. I come from Arta and Epirus, an area of agricultural and livestock farming. I live with these people, I know their efforts to gain their livelihood, so they can stand in the countryside. With this bill we treat them with particular sensitivity and we create a favourable, more protective framework for reduced insurance contributions. Our farmers will pay almost half of every class than all other free professionals pay. We create space, give them the opportunity to stay in the countryside, to stay in our villages to give Greece life, to work there, to promote, to create wealth that our country needs so much. In conclusion, Mr President, show your tolerance for a minute because I would like to ask a couple of questions. Are we going to solve the insurance problem today? I say quite clearly: we are taking a few steps forward, we are taking a few steps in the right direction. A definitive solution as I said and at first there is no need for continuous monitoring and corrections on a long-term basis. When will we be better? When the economy stands on its feet, when we move from Brain Drain to Brain gain, when we restore as a society and as a country of extroversion, recovery, development, exports, confidence and dynamism when we produce as a whole more wealth. This is where our Government works and we expect Mr Mitsotakis to deliver the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u90	Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a thorough consultation of the citizens and bodies and after a thorough discussion of the committees, a bill - sealing the social policy of the government - a draft law on all the professional and social groups, a bill of prospect for the new generations, a bill of value again for Greek citizens' social contributions. It is a draft law that houses chaos and leaves in politics the law of Katrugalos that culminated in social benefits, increased the tax evasion, dismantled the insurance mechanism, folded the incentive to stay at work, shattered the labors of thousands of pensioners a lifetime. It is an insurance reform that not only has no reduction in pensions but on the contrary will increase pensions for all today's and tomorrow's workers who have thirty years of insurance and above, an insurance reform that increases supplementary pensions and finally brings EKA to the age of new technologies by creating e - EKA and by unifying the support systems of EKA and the EKA. What does that mean? A faster version of pensions, which until now were dragged from office to desk and drawer to drawer, eliminate the suffering of the citizen that had to wait for years for the self-evident, which, by digitizing pensions in July 2020, will be quickly and effortlessly enjoyed by the citizen. That is why the opposition to the committees has taken a declining course. Of the initially planned krone for the creation of impressions, the criticism gradually came to light on procedural matters and on the articles. Why? But why it is not possible for this SYRIZA either to raise the revolutionary flambour when from the forty bodies who were called upon to place themselves on the draft law the vast majority adopt its provisions. Because it is not possible to deny any positive sign of this draft law when it adds special attention to young, multitude, working mothers, farmers, widows' pensions and special disabilities, when it finally disconnects insurance from the years of work and income, introducing a free and flexible option for insurance contributions, when it reduces social security contributions to half the working mothers, when it encourages pensioners who want to continue to work legally by abolishing the relevant regulations of the Catarou law that strangle their will for post-retirement employment. Because retired Imathia and not only who had an estate as a source of minimum additional income were sentenced to SYRIZA unjustly and unjustly inappropriately. Of course, even so SYRIZA had to find something that had to shine for the price of opposition weapons. And he found the analog study. The SYRIZA Head of Division, Mrs Ahtsioglou, interpreted the elements of the analogy study as showing that the generalised growth picture given by the government is pragmatic. Who says that? SYRIZA, when the Council of State repeatedly considered the Katrugalo law unconstitutional because it did not have a proportionate study, when for the first time an insurance reform, that of the Government of New Democracy, is officially accompanied by a full proportionate study that highlights in all tonnes that the viability of our insurance system has been defined by at least 2070. This, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is called the nerve, as it is your second attempt to fight with fire fire, allegedly speaking of a reduction in pension expenditure in New Democracy, which means inability to increase pensions, an argument that becomes even more ridiculous when you articulated the pension expenditure for five consecutive years, from 2015 to 2019. And because he had to triumph evil with the opposition windmill hunt, he also invented the risk of a collapse of insurance income. Who? You who, when our insurance system lost 400,000 euros a year because of the connection between the free professionals and the income, were ostriching and blinding. Do you want to have an opposition? Your right is also a constitutional obligation. But you cannot level down, twist and overshadow, and above all you cannot judge without articulating a proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is moving towards a comprehensive insurance reform by closing ears to populism, to thick words and to 'yes' to everyone and to everything. Scheduled and responsible is building up an innovative and reliable insurance system that regains citizens' confidence, stimulates productivity, strengthens insurance consciousness. In this battle, everyone must choose a camp. Or with the modernization brought by the Government of New Democracy, or with the regression encouraged by SYRIZA by deafing or even supporting the revolutionary gymnastics of the state trade unionists, supposedly indignant and rebels without cause, at the expense of the citizens of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u92	Just seven minutes, Mr. Comrade. My colleague from SYRIZA, Mr. Aylonite Alexander, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. If we believed Mr. Tsavdaridis in what he said, certainly the Noah flood, climate change, World War II, is due to SYRIZA. All SYRIZA! Minister, many good news, many congratulations you have taken from all the Members who spoke from the New Democracy. It looks normal to me. Normally, however, it does not seem to me that you yourself are congratulating yourself. I heard your speech last night, and I was so impressed to say, frankly, how they have not invited you to the UN to solve all the problems of insurance in all the countries of the world! You have created the impression or want to create the impression that this bill is the Constitution of the Insurance System in Greece. Is that right? That's what people hear and they've got us in the bouquet, others fair, others unfair. From this debate that is taking place today and tomorrow and questions such as: Will the world's pension be increased? Will he pay less insurance contributions? Will an insurance system be built viable? The contributions we're going to make will be so much that they correspond to what we get as a pension after the end of our working life? Why am I asking this? I directly ask the Minister. Are there two truths? Mrs Ahchioglu in her position, she told you with very simple words that, if we compare your budget line to pensions with the 2019 budget and budget line, she is less than EUR 200 million. Tell me what magical abilities you have to tell the Greek people that his pension will increase. I can only assume that there have been too many pensioners who have died since you took over or in any case reduced pensions. That is the only way I can justify that these EUR 200 million have been reduced. And don't tell me we don't know how to remove. And don't tell me again the line that the amount is less as a percentage of GDP. The EUR 200 million less money written in the 2020 budget is an absolute figure, not played. And whoever says the opposite makes fun of the world, which is why cosmakis has us in the booby. And while you have such a chance with money, the 37-38 billion pillow, you do not answer why social spending is small. Are we still in a memorial period? We are not in a period of growth and economic prosperity, as you claim? Should social expenditure not be of an expansionary nature? From this smaller pie there is a reverse redistribution. My colleagues have explained them in all places. You've turned the cage backwards. But I can't tell you that you're mocking the world by comparing the budget pie reductions in the memorial years and not making a comparison of the SYRIZA's non-remembrary budget with yours. But it's terrible, that's, you're great at cheating the world. But let me do a parentheses here. I heard you yesterday, Minister, you disgraced us with the Katrugalou law in relation to constitutionality. You're bringing him up unconstitutional, you're putting him down. I ask you directly: Why do you not remove him? One provision: 'We repeal the Katorugalou law and vote for a new law'. But it doesn't interest you. Where's your lad? Some individual provisions, in my personal view, were considered unconstitutional by the Council of State, for example, the lack of a proportionate study, although comrade Tsakalotus replied the other day in relation to the proportionate study. Forget that this law, the Katrugalou law, was passed in the difficult memorial years. Why don't you tell people? Why don't you remind people? What law embedded the insurance funds in one? Wasn't it a very big event, institutional change of huge proportions? You don't say that. Anti-constitutional, says the law. I address the Greek people: Have you read from the newspapers how many insurance laws, but also other laws of yours have been judged as unconstitutional? So to remind you of two fat examples of unconstitutional laws. Do you remember what happened with the criminalization of the non-payment of insurance contributions and taxes? Wherever you were going, you were arrested by the police. Do you remember them? You baptized a self-righteous offense. And those of you who are lawyers in here know that the lighthouse is determined by the general principles of Criminal Law. They went for a walk with the family, they had an online system, they were pinched. Self-defense. May I remind you of the rag you combined with the cut-off of electricity? Do you remember that? For these two, fat, do you know what was going on in the courts, and how did we lawyers call? Anti-constitutional, anti-constitutional! Nothing! Nobody sweated their ears. And you're saying the Katorugalou law is unconstitutional and brought destruction to the insurance system?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u94	The Council of State said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u95	Are you talking? Are you talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u96	And who's to talk, the neighbor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u97	No, it's only your own laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u98	The Council of State said so, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u99	So let me tell you, if you say so, read once you go home to the Council of State Decision 2287/2015. Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u100	Have you read it in 2019?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u101	Read what I'm telling you, read it. In the bill, I'll tell you this way fat, because my time is running out. I'll repeat it so people can hear it. Three cuts. Is there a cut in the thirteenth pension, yes or no? Tell the world. Oh, no. Is there a pension cut for the first time by 30% for pensioners who worked until 2016? Isn't that a punishment? Thirdly, the replacement rate from forty years and then it falls sharply from 2% to 0.5%. Why does someone who has an income of 70,000, I say, time to pay the same thing as the one who has an income of 7,000? Why don't you answer these questions, which Mrs. Ahchioglu has told you a hundred times? Say it. Why do you put everyone in the same bag? I shall conclude by saying this. I would not vote for this bill at all, because I do not want, when I go to my place, to have me in the cuff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, thirty students and students and two trainers from the 2nd High School of the historic Salamis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Santorini Nektarios from SYRIZA has the floor. Mrs. Skondra will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, because the debate on this important bill - every bill on our insurance system is important - it is not empty - you will allow me to say that, at the moment, the repression forces beat citizens on our islands to implement a policy which is both deadlocked and incapable of solving the problem, which is due to your extreme right. Finally, stop this crime. Dismantle the islands. Help the islands live. Don't give up. But we're going to today's bill. The insurance has always been a privileged field for the right to exercise hard neoliberal policies. None of us can forget the policies of the right now, which most pensioners have lost 40% of their incomes and many of these policies also bear the signature of today's minister. No one can previously forget the looting of the insurance funds by the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK with the maritime loans, the structured bonds, the PSI and all that led the insurance system to bankruptcy. But what are you doing with this bill? This bill severely affects the redistributive and social nature of the insurance system. At the same time, with the reintroduction of the escalation contributions and, voluntarily, the "close the eye" to private insurance, removing resources from the public insurance system. It is obvious that all your communication games have collapsed, and now it seems clear and will appear in a month's time in the accounts of people, pensioners and free traders that you have deceived them. First and foremost: Remove the thirteenth pension, which, to remind you, was a full pension and was an important breath for these people, while for the higher pensions the amount was calculated proportionally and was an economic breath. I would also remind you that this 15th pension did not vote on our own. You have denounced us by election, but you voted for it. That's hypocrisy. And even more hypocrisy is that Mr. Mitsotakis at the PPC told us that he would maintain it and if he could, he would increase it. What happened to the promises made by Mr. Mitsotakis? Where did those promises go? And we ask how you, "While Houdini", will increase pensions when you have a smaller budget for 2020? Because the reality is that nine out of ten pensioners will lose their total annual income as a result of the abolition of the 15th pension. And who will benefit? A few, about seventy thousand. Because the difference you're saying, there'll be an increase, it'll be consumed in the personal difference. I have heard an MEP from the New Democracy say 'The Gulf of Katorugalo'. Yeah, that's what kept the pensions, so the pensions don't completely collapse. Therefore, no pensioner will see but around the seventy thousand pensioners will see a small increase. You say 'up to 252 euros will go the increase'. For who? For those who have an average pension salary of 3,500 euros. How many of them are there, guys? How many are there and we don't know them? But the second biggest crime you're committing is insurance contributions. Reset the classes to the insurance for the freelance professionals, and we'll choose. What are you doing? You disconnect insurance contributions from income. 90% of the free professionals, when you go to your areas, will see that they have a 20% increase, from 185 to 220, that is, EUR 420 per year will pay more than 90% of the free professionals. And who will benefit? The ones with big incomes. Logic, you'll tell me. Why do they support you? The ones with big incomes. They're the ones you want to support. But clean and in terms of neoliberalism, in terms of a liberal economy. Can I ask you something? A professional who is active in a space and has a small income, compared to one who is active in the same area and has a large income, does he not have a competitive disadvantage when both of them will pay the same? Are you helping young free professionals in this way, or are you destroying them? Because percentage you get more. Understood. You say that insurance is seen in the future. What future when you destroy new free professionals? And you're saying the other thing, it's the first time that someone can pay higher contributions to get a higher pension. You know that this has already been the case since 2017 with n.4488. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill clearly shows the face of the old, good, memorial New Democracy. The public social security system is a chain system and with an absolute link to the labour market. But what do you do about the labour market? You are the government that, without being in a memorandum, follow memorandum policies for deregulation of labour relations. There's been an increase in redundancies. You're hitting collective agreements. You lowered the APRD. You encourage infraction in the labour market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You have overlooked all your election vows to increase the level of minimum wage growth. Now you're saying SYRIZA increased it to 11%. But by election you knew that we had increased by 11% the minimum wage. You didn't know? Why were you lying? To get the pins, huh? You are undermining the public insurance system and opening the door to big incomes and strengthening private insurance against pensioners and the new generation. In conclusion, this bill affects nine out of ten pensioners to benefit one, nine out of ten free professionals to benefit one. Whatever you say, whatever you do, pensioners and freelance professionals in two months will see in their accounts. And you won't be able to hide that from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u104	The speaker of the New Republic of Carditsa, Mr. Silina Skondra, has the floor. The next five days are Mr. Baraliakos, Mr. Panas, Mrs. Christidou, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr. Kedicoglou. Mrs Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to say to the honourable Member who spoke before, who destroyed the free traders, we all know that. It's known. Finally, stop saying this about 'the great interests' and 'the possessors and the occupants', because the New Democracy has proved that it is a folk party, a party that supports the young and the great, the ones that you have destroyed! So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Katrugalos' anti-constitutional law was passed and trade unionists protested. Rightly, of course, they protested. The New Democracy comes and abolishes the Katorugalou law with the disastrous results, the trade unions again on the road, with the wishes of the Opposition. So if that's not hypocrisy and it's not a theater, then what is it? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So let's put them down. Today, insurance reform contributes to increasing employment, strengthening entrepreneurship, reducing tax evasion. He's cultivating the insurance conscience. It's a simple, flexible system with total disconnection from income. It provides special care for all new entrants at work. This is not all unprecedented. We have been talking about it in the New Democracy and we are now legislating. Because we're the ones who say it, we keep it. So the insurance is accompanied by two scientific and fully documented studies certifying the viability of the insurance system and ensuring all pensions by 2070, to stop our young people finally believing that they will never receive a pension, to stop their immigration and uncertainty. This system guarantees them and the percentage of GDP for pension expenditure will be on the European average, as it will gradually increase. So why, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, do you forget that for the first time after twelve years there will be no reduction in pensions, but on the contrary there will be increases, smaller or larger? You created a stimulus to stay at work. You have also applied your left-wing philosophy, not that of controlling the joints of power, the other, which consciously destroys and punishes everything that creative. That is why you have kneeled a million four hundred forty thousand free professionals and farmers. You turned the insurance into a tax collector and reached the height of tax evasion and tax evasion. So listen, ladies and gentlemen. The new insurance bill changes all philosophy. The insured will see an increase in the retireability of their pension after thirty years and one day. The new insurance law is based on simplicity, flexibility and freedom. It provides special care to the multitude, young people, working mothers, farmers, widow's pensions and for special disabilities. For the insurance contributions of selfemployed persons and self-employed persons there are no classes anymore and the contributions are completely decoupled from income. Seven categories are set up and a single category may be selected free of charge at the beginning of each year. In parallel insurance, any employee who, at the same time, has a business activity with a gross wage of EUR 934 shall cover EUR 252 corresponding to the second insurance category of self-employed persons. He shall fully fulfil his insurance obligations in this way. We also stabilised the health contribution after the second insurance category. Special attention shall be paid to young people with low contributions for the first five years of insurance. It is very important in the early steps of young people that there should be support. But there is still an injustice in widow's pensions. It ceases the age limit of fifty-two for the widows or widows of the Equity Fund. Let us now, in an area that touches the entire Greek region, an extremely important issue for which, Minister, I would particularly like to congratulate you on behalf of the farmers of Carditsa. It concerns the real support of retired farmers who want to continue their working life legally, but also pensioners in the private or public sector who want to remain active in the primary sector, the sector, gentlemen, who feeds Greece, the primary sector that is a pillar of development and can become the beginning of a new industrialisation of the country. We therefore have full protection for retired farmers who will receive their pension in full. However, all pensioners in the private or public sector, too, will be able to have rural activities and up to EUR 10 000 will not be affected. That is how you motivate and practically support productivity, ladies and gentlemen. For the first time, a single award rule is created for everyone and the minimum period of insurance for the creation of an autonomous right is abolished. You built the FBI, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, but you left him in his luck, without organization, without personnel, without logistics. There was chaos. It's been three years since pensions were unresolved. Did any of you care how these people would live? Now, the new Electronic Social Security Institution is finalised in organisational and administrative terms and is united under its umbrella by the single and subsidiary providers. It is structured in such a way that it helps everyone choose a higher category and a much higher pension. Pensions for successive insurance are also accelerated, while for the acquisition of a pension the required insurance days from a thousand five hundred to a thousand in the last activity or employment entity are reduced. In this way, the difficulties of finding insurance time will be addressed. On 1 June 2010, the first digital pensions will be issued in Greece. Within 2021, all outstanding pensions inherited from the "first time left". Ladies and gentlemen, we have promised to abolish the Katrugalou law. That is what we are doing today, restoring all the injustices and solving the problems and deadlocks that it has created. In New Democracy, all of us and Kyriakos Mitsotakis keep our promises. Through this bill Greeks will once again believe in social security, they will place on it the labors of their lives, to enjoy a pension that allows them to live with dignity. Minister, congratulations to you and your partners on the serious and excellent work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, could I intervene to make a small position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u107	Do you want to place yourself in relation to something that has been said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u108	Oh, no. I want to make an intervention in the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u109	Warm request that your intervention be short.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u110	I think I'm gonna contribute to the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u111	The Bureau does not deny your own intervention. Minister, do you have five minutes? The list is big. A number of colleagues are missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u112	The intervention will be short.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u113	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I felt the need to intervene a few hours before the procedure was completed in plenary session on this very important bill, as every time it is called 'insurance bill'. And I felt the need, because I would like to put before all my colleagues, all the wings, some thoughts that I think are expressing, beyond the political, ideological references, the understanding that I am showing that there must also be opposition to a major issue, such as insurance. I would never believe that a party would vote positively on an insurance reform. It's a major issue. And that is an issue, which is burning, so we need to make opposition. I understand that. But my assessment is, because the insurance issue is a matter that over time has been employing the country - it has been dealing with it for many years now - and it has been an environment, which we have all experienced in budgetary difficulties from 2010 to recently, I think we should calmly say a few things, which my intervention just comes to unite, compose and respond to this issue. This insurance reform is coming to complete a cycle of change in the insurance system of the country that started since 2010. And that insurance came to stay. And I'll explain why he's staying. If we were theoretically freed from our party reports, I am sure at least three parties in the House would vote positively for this bill. And I mean the Change Movement and SYRIZA. And I mean it perfectly. And I'm explaining. The criticism that has so far been heard from the SYRIZA side - above all, here I stand - as a Professional Opposition is funny and unexistent. The issues which he raised as political controversy and political differentiation are essentially powerless. The argument of the 15th pension does not exist. There was never a thirteenth pension. He baptised from the 2.3 billion, which is the thirteenth pension, an arbitrary amount of 900 million 'the thirteenth pension'. He baptized it on election Eve. He gave it without insurance rules for specific reasons. That's rejected. SYRIZA's second argument is that the 2020 budget has two hundred and five million less pension expenditure. Who refuses? That's right. I have, however, presented to the House the lengthy series of reductions in pension expenditure. Mrs Ahchioglu said - and quite rightly I accept that - that we need to look back on account. He accepted the reductions for four, five years of SYRIZA's pension expenditure. He turned it around and said we need to look at it in an account. I'll take it. You will expect to see from the record what 2020 is. Because in 2020 pension expenditure will go up, because they do not include - and I said this yesterday to Mr Tsakaloto - 0.5% of GDP, which is going to increase pension expenditure. The third argument about reductions in pensions is funny. I am referring to retired workers. We restored equality and a justice with 70%. In all the developed countries of Europe there is the cut for a pensioner who works. We here have only excluded the rural world, because we believe that the primary sector is of special character. And you are now invoking those who I had kept with the 100% of their pension before the Katorugalou law. This is now a matter which we have been resolving for two years and which we are seeing. However, there must be uniform rules. I now come to respond to a crucial issue, because I am optimistic. I hope that this law has a prospect, a future and that it will remain. Listen to why, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, colleagues of the Change Movement. I address you, because it is worth what I will tell you. Firstly, the architectural structure of the system has a basic pillar, basic and reciprocating pension. He was preserved by me as Minister, preserved by SYRIZA, baptized by SYRIZA "national and proportionate" and maintained by this law, because it is right. The antique above the new architecture that began in 2010, which was indicated to us by the troika and was right in that, that the insurance system must have the guarding of the state with the national and the reward was correct and maintained. Who dares to change that tomorrow? I didn't hear anyone wanting to change it. And first of all, I admit that the national and proportionate pension is a good measure, Mr Chakaloto, and it must remain. You kept it, you changed his name from what you took from me and brought it from Lover and Koutromanis is right architecture. And here the political system is united. Yeah, that's what's maintained. And I am going forward, I go to the second, which is also important: the Katrugalou law, the calculation of pensions. What did the Katrugalu law do to the pension payroll? He started counting pensions, look out, not the replacement rates, from 2002 onwards for working life. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, I'd like you to hear it. It's important. I want to hear why these are very important and we rarely discuss them with coolness in the House. Was it right? Answer: Yes. It was right because this is how justice was attributed to the whole of working life. Did I change it as Minister? No, I keep it. It was right. Is that the system's antagonist? Of course it is. Is there anyone who said in the Chamber that he would change it? Of course not. So we build hopes, because this system will stay and come to completion with this insurance reform. Thirdly, the issue relating to the replacement coefficients. The replacement rates that we bring, they have an ideological concept of our own that the system must be attractive, rewarding for that over thirty years and one day we are increasing it. But we are also aligned with the decision of the Council of State which wants 50% plus one. Did someone say in this room that it would change it? Of course not. Of the three parties I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u115	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u116	I shall conclude, Mr President, because this intervention is very important because we are talking about insurance and this must be left to everyone. That'll stay. The returnibility of the system that we bring, with our own insurance reform, does not change. Fourthly, for freelance professionals. You believe after the crisis of the unconstitutionalism of the S.H.E.L.D. on the assimilation of non-wages and employees and the 20% exterior imposed by the Katorugalou Act and we change it in an innovative way that the classes are being abolished, abolished and the connection to tax will there be someone who will change it? Do you hear someone here in the Chamber who said he'd change it? Not even one! No one has said so because it will find the momentum and resistance of the whole world, the scientists, the farmers and the self-employed. Fifthly, unification began at Petrala and was a huge structural change. The whole political system was found against war in unification of the funds. When I incorporated the ancillary fund personally and became the ancillary fund as a whole, under a fund, SYRIZA was most strongly opposed to the abolition of the ancillary funds, we unite, we do. But when SYRIZA did take this step of the administrative unification of the funds, the New Democracy did not react, nor is there a statement of mine when I was a Member of Parliament in the past that we would abolish it. And what do we do today? We are now unifying all the remaining pension providers to one institution in the new e-ECA and we are digiting it. Is there anyone in this House who says the next day is going to break down the insurance system again? So that's what we agree with. There will be a structural pillar of the insurance policy, a single pension award body, only e-ECA and did not say one thing about changing it. We agree and I am pleased about that. Seventh, following the presentation of this insurance that for the first time was accompanied by a national analogy study and an adequacy study considered to be unconstitutional, the Katorugalo law which had never come here in the past, nor did PASOK then have any other laws and the New Republic's past had proportionate studies, do you think that it will come back here as Minister of Labour of the country and dare to bring insurance reform here without a proportionate study? Not even one! This unites us, because this is now a stable for the country where no one will come to the House without a proportionate study because this is a conquest now and we are going forward! The same is true of the pension adequacy study, which the Council of State has now demanded is an acquis of the political system. It will not be possible, ladies and gentlemen, to come back to the House without an adequate pension, which is now required as an accompanying text of great importance and value, which must accompany any insurance reform. From there on, there is the last one, which I consider important, which comes from the National Analog Study. Any Minister for Labour in the future comes for any change he wants to make - I justify the opposition logic put by the parties of the minor opposition - I have not heard any excesses from the SYRIZA. I must admit, excesses from SYRIZA have not been heard - it should at the same time justify, on the basis of today's proportionate study, the development of pension expenditure. What Minister will bring in here and in the role of Santa Claus will he share pensions increased, beyond what is possible within our national economy, to give when pension expenditure is evacuated as a percentage of GDP in relation to other European countries? What Minister will come here to say that the state budget will once again finance the remuneration pension when we bring the balance after 2030? Nobody. That is why my intervention, with the presentation of these key pillars, comes to say that in the end, if we remove our party reports, we agree that this bill also unites and this bill came to stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u117	Mr Baraliacos Xenophon has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of this bill, the country is finally gaining a credible, simple and flexible social security system, which is based on liberal principles, with a development loan, but above all, it ends up in fair and sustainable solutions for the whole of the insured and pensioners. This is undoubtedly a top-level reform that not only solves pathogens and uncertainties for decades, but also corrects all those distortions, injustices and fraudulent promises created by the Katorugalou law. At the very first moment, we raised the structural and intrinsic disadvantages of this abstract law, which, on the one hand, had become a collecting mechanism for the insured, but also the pensioners, on the other, had drugged the labour market, entangled the business. Consistent with the criticism we have made in the previous social security scheme, we are legislating a reform phase that responds both to the truth agreement that we have signed with the citizens and to the undeclared reality that has shaped adverse conditions for the sustainability of the insurance system. Before we underline what innovations it introduces, what incentives it provides and how it embraces all workers and pensioners, we must show to all tons the only thing that this new insurance reform does not do. In spite of SYRIZA's slandering risk and ongoing lies, the new insurance bill of the Government of New Democracy does not reduce any pension. After twelve years not only have there been no pension cuts, but hundreds of thousands of pensioners will see increases in their clearing systems and in many cases with retroactive effect. This is a tangible and substantial regulation, which is in the most unequivocal way, that Greece has read the threshold of a new, hopeful era, where the bad ghosts of left-wing ideas spend on one side behind. And that's what SYRIZA really can't stand. He refuses to leave in the future, because only in one Greece captives in the past can the political opposition party hope for its political survival. But we won't do them a favor. And since the bet of the truth and trust of the citizens of Europe is daily, our government commitment to a guaranteed pension, in response to the labors of a lifetime, is based on a proportionate and special scientific study of the Athens University of Economics. For the first time, insurance law will be accompanied by two such, fully documented studies certifying the viability of the insurance system, the safeguarding and the adequacy of pensions by 2070. The core of this bill, however, responds to the major question that is currently being raised by an employee who has entered the production process, a worker who wants to create his own family and is trying to design a future safely and in decent terms. So, ladies and gentlemen, the answer to this new and new is simple and clear, without an asterisk: the insurance reform of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis responds positively and categorically to the young worker, to the young farmer, to the new self-employed and to the new employee, who has started or is now starting his work, that he will receive a pension higher than the current pensions, as he will have chosen to do in accordance with the contributions he will make. In particular, young freelance professionals, self-employed persons and entrepreneurs will pay reduced contributions for the first five years, subject to the minimum level of insurance, without having to make an obligation, after five years, in return for the difference, as was unjustly foreseen. For us, integration into the production process and strengthening youth entrepreneurship is a precondition for wealth creation, the lever for changing the economic model. At the same time, polytexts, working mothers, widow and disability pensions are shielded, while our pilots and selectors of the Greek Army are protected. We are genuinely liberal, without giving social justice to the Left, which has really destroyed it. Ladies and gentlemen, the digital transformation of the administrative machine is constantly at the forefront of our government policy. The provisions of Part Two of this Legislation codify the transition of the insurance system to the new digital age. This structural section shall be culminated with the award of the digital pension, minimising the time necessary for the completion of administrative procedures from the time of the application to the stage of the adoption of the pension decision. An employee will deal with the single insurance file of a single pensioner. Citizens will reconvene the country's services and the electronic ECA will play a leading role in the digital modernisation of public services. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise the developmental nature of the new reform and emphasise the importance of the provisions for all workers who, at last, can look at their working lives with optimism and dreams. This draft law by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - and they deserve congratulations to the Minister, Mr Brutsi, for his morality and effectiveness - is a reserve of the future, engenders hope and deprives the Greeks as a foundation for their work, to create and advance their place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u119	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and two educational sessions from the 2nd High School of Salamis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Panos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. You are bringing, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, before the House, your own proposal for insurance reform, as you call it. The word'reform' was a flag for your Government, as was the word 'development'. However, so far, the number of legislation introduced by the government has not brought about substantial reforms, nor are they all in the process of development. On the contrary, most of the legislations serve purely interoperable aims, trying to give the impression that they bring some innovation, some change. The government has engaged in a communal struggle, in order to be able to win the game of impressions, to pass the picture on to the large part of the world that it works in favour of weak social strata, to support those who have been most affected by the crisis, that it cares about the progress of many and not the favor of the few. Part of this performance by the government is also the new insurance system currently under discussion. And I'm explaining why I'm saying that. Let us put things on a reasonable basis. I think we all agree that the insurance system is the pillar of each country's labour and productive construction. It is directly linked to employment, to demographics, so it is automatically linked to unemployment, to Brain Drain and to the ageing population. We should also be concerned about the proportion of retired workers in our country, which is about 1 to 1.8. What do the workers under the scheme pay contributions, under what scheme are they employed in an unemployment environment that continues to exist? The answer is as follows: under parttime employment, therefore reduced insurance. Hence the concept of retiring in the circles of new generations. Similarly, it is the concept of society as a whole, which speaks of an insurer - de-insurance grenade based on incompatibility, from injustices, from lack of organisation and resources. It is a common place, moreover, that without sustainable insurance, labour rights, the fair relationship between a worker and a State, social benefits and pensions, they are concepts of empty content. Without sustainable insurance, which ensures the returning pension and the future of new generations, we cannot talk about exiting the crisis, we cannot talk about development progress, reform policies. However, even though we have heard the announcements made by the Minister responsible for the total abolition of the Katrugalo Law, for the injustices he has created, for the huge reduction in medium-income incomes and pensions that he has caused, unfortunately what we are seeing in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not an eruption of the Katrugalos Act, but a patch. On the basis of the same recipe, therefore, the New Democracy Government brings in a law on the insurance of the country with deep conservative payments, creating new social inequalities. In particular, some of the injustices maintained by this draft law are as follows: The huge increases in retirement age limits, 67 for all or 62 forty-years of service, which was, of course, passed by the previous government with L.4336/2015, are maintained. Secondly, the huge reductions in the main and supplementary pensions that reached 50% are maintained, as well as in the one where the cuts totalled more than 40%. Even worse, the vertical reduction in disability pensions of the Katrugalo Law is maintained up to 40%. In addition, the Government of New Democracy denounces the abolition of the CSCE by the SYRIZA Government, but maintains the abolition of the pension thresholds. The employment of young children supposed to be the government is also undermining to bring them back by reversing Brain Drain. It ensures that it is employed in the public with a minimum penalty in retirement for pensioners over sixty-two years in order to give friends the opportunity to give up their old-age employees' income. The new structure of contributions, in particular, to self-employed persons, creates disparities between employees and self-employed persons on the one hand, and the self-employed, on the other, by strengthening the free movement of workers and self-employed persons on the other, thereby leading to more and more persons insured in the choice of private insurance. We are therefore talking about a vicious cycle of constantly conflicting social interests which will once again lead to widespread discontent between society and the absolute depreciation of the state mechanism. On this point I would like to refer to some specific categories of insured persons. Farmers, for example, who face huge economic problems, see in this bill the contribution of the lower insurance class to increase. Two parameters are in place here: this heading is one of the majority of farmers and they are already having difficulty in meeting the applicable levy. We therefore have reservations about whether with the present tax system and whether they do not increase their income will be able to cope with it in the future. I would also like to make a special reference to workers in the heavy and unhealthy professions, especially mining workers who in our country are now seven hundred and fifty, even though the mining industry supports economic areas. Mining workers are talking about the great contributions they make to their industry for the employer and the employee, but the pensions they receive are disproportionately small and therefore incomprehensible. As if this were not enough by these people with the new law brought by your Government will reach up to thirty years of work, which is impossible to consider the working conditions in which they work. Therefore, you must review the pension scheme of this category of workers. With regard to our action as a Change Movement we have tabled a concrete package of proposals that are more typical of the national dialogue on real insurance reform. In order for this overall reform of the insurance system to take place, however, there must be a growth explosion, investments, new jobs, a demographic problem, where we have tabled a relevant comprehensive proposal and, firstly, a rescheduling of EUR 200 a month for every young child born. These are some of our positions. To conclude, I would like to say that we, as a Change Movement, think that another opportunity is being lost to reform a huge wound in the organisation of the state. That is why we will not stop being the only political force that the social state has developed to highlight pathogens and demand social justice and real equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u121	Mrs Christidou Rallia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to discuss a draft law which we have already learned from the parliamentary procedure before us and, unfortunately, public opinion from the media and television. So what do we learn from the overwhelming majority of the instruments, which are totally symptoms of the government majority? That legislation is in place to bring about increases in pensions. And we ask, are we opposed to this? Obviously not. But it is our obligation to the Greek people to see whether what the channels publish and the government are true or not. And it is important that we look at in this bill, not only to the point of view of the government's disapprovals, but also to comment on the big picture, the general economic planning of the government that arises from these neoliberal policies and from these neoliberal strangles, which undermine the state insurer for the benefit of all the few and private insurance companies. And, you know what, it doesn't surprise us at all. After all, when did the right-wing groups in this country really care about the welfare state? Never. It is against your ideology, it is against the ideology of the right, which publishes all the opposite of equality, all the opposite of brotherhood, all the opposite of progress. So it is not your fault that SYRIZA, because we are already listening to you for a second day, again, to oppose SYRIZA. It's not your fault SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen. It's your fault you're right. And we have no problem with being right and extreme neoliberal. We are disturbed by your phantomism, by your hypocrisy, and it disturbs us that you are being sensitive to the society as a whole and to the majority of the Greek people. The government has promised increases in pensions and even increases in a large proportion of pensioners. That can't be true. It cannot be because the money earmarked for the 2020 pension budget has made our language hair - it is EUR 200,000, 000 less than in 2019. And first of all, you are abolishing the thirteenth pension, which was granted to all pensioners, and proportionally for higher pensions, a measure established and permanently in favour of the weakest incomes. The thirteenth pension you like or you don't like it was a permanent measure. Was it given before the election? Yeah. We're voting four-year-olds, yes or no? Yeah. Did ELSTAT's evidence come out then? Yeah. Did those elements form the financial area so that additional benefits could be allowed? Yeah. Do you want to call it an allowance, benefit? As you wish, say it. It was, however, money in the pockets of the Greek people, a full pension for the smaller pensions and a smaller part for the larger pensions, very simply to get as many as possible and not some. That's our difference. So the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis faithful to its ideological orientation, gives small increases to the upper tiles of pensions, which account for only 10% of the total. While the abolition of the thirteenth pension brings clear and permanent reductions in lower pensions, which is 90% of all pensioners. Small increases will see a few retired people and the rest will see no increase. The beneficiaries are only seventy thousand pensioners who have been retired since 2016, because before there is the personal difference that smoothes down and increases, and an increase in the replacement rates is fruited and only those years of insurance from thirty to forty. Because after that, they're falling sharply. So you're cutting off the majority, who are low-pensioners, to give the highest tiles. But even that's where you give them a fragment. And if our opposition is funny, we'll see how much retired people laugh next month and the next month pensions will enter their bills. And we heard and fought again with patience the New Democracy's dear colleagues - even though they are government - continue to oppose SYRIZA, forgeting that SYRIZA likes or does not like you, like or like the country from the memorials - to forget that even the ESS - someone spoke about the ESS - was your Memorandum of Understanding in the Memorandums that you brought. We can't always think as it suits us if the state has all the time or not. Decide, does it keep going or doesn't it have? And self-employed are not just doctors, lawyers, architects, political engineers, and I don't know who else. Yes, they are young scientists who have a great deal of need, but they are not the only ones. They are also the small and medium-sized ones who stated what they said not because they were taxing, or because they were taxing, because they wanted it, but because they did have smaller incomes. This world, paying almost half of its contributions to Law4387/2016 kept its shops upright, kept its shops open. The proposal to redistribute income for the most fragile financial sector is more clearly seen in the area of contributions. Contributions based on the income of each professional shall be abolished. The lower compulsory contribution is increased by 20%, but by the new system of the classes each professional chooses whether he wants to pay. No one obliges him. It pays the minimum as an obligation to the State. And so, two professionals, one who wins a hundred times more than the other, will have the same contributions, the first from choice, and only the second from obligation. What does that mean, practically? That solidarity between the members of society is being abolished, that private insurance is growing and that the state is giving these incomes to private insurance companies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, in thirty seconds. So let us think that some may have to give this surplus to private companies, but when the State itself ends up with its own choices of giving a national pension which looks like an allowance, all citizens, whether wanting or not, will turn to similar private solutions. So where does this vicious circle lead us? In many of the speed pensions, in huge inequalities, in further catalysts of the social state. You know, traditionally, there was in Greece the concept of social solidarity, through the insurance and pension system, between generations. In other words, one generation works and provides contributions in order to pay and receive pensions for those who are now in a job weakness. Now, with this system that you introduce, that balance is at risk. And to say something very important, that the contributions of the current workers, of the people who are now working, are not only about their future pensions but also about the health benefits they receive and now, allowances such as those of the predation, the upbringing of children and a number of similar remunerations, which constitute the welfare state and which embrace all generations, pensioners and workers and working together with their children. Ladies and gentlemen, if we shake down the worker's faith in their welfare state, we have lost citizens and if the job precariousness led to Brain drain, these insurers will exacerbate it as a phenomenon. Because through the systematic dismantling of labour relations, by undermining labour rights, by abolishing collective agreements, by liberalising redundancies and by retreating wages, growth in that country will not come. And because we have heard the Minister present, not the insurance, but the 'insurance', in our opinion, a bill and a'revolution' in television panels, to say that this is not a revolution, ladies and gentlemen, but a coup. And in the refugee, both in the islands, and in the House here today, with the arrogance of your electoral victory, you think you can legislate against many. But the grace period is over for you. Your electoral note is over. In Mytilini, Chios and Samos, the people realised what your policy means and soon the pensioners throughout Greece will understand what your thick words have. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u123	Mrs. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is particularly important and crucial when it comes to the insurance bill. But it's a draft law, which is not cut off. It is barely serving and forming part of an overall policy implemented by the New Democracy Government, and unfortunately, Mr Minister, and you, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, have been the first time you took over on 7 July. This policy has a neoliberal sign. A policy that comes at a time, after leaving the Memorandums, will voluntarily restore the toughest aspects of the memorandum and even more than the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, which were not accepted during the memorandum period. And we are talking about a set of policies, as has been illustrated by the choice of cheap labour, the destruction of industrial relations, redundancies without justification, the abolition and undermining of sectoral contracts and collective autonomy, and, of course, the total abandonment of the issues that you and Mr Mitsotakis have promised beforehand, such as the supposed continuation of the increase in minimum wages. So the reality is that this draft law is also under discussion today in the logic of weakening and plunging the social state. Because social security is at the heart of the social state. Unfortunately, you are also applying the same logic as the social state as a whole, social expenditure, public education and public health here. What are the main guidelines and basic features of the insurance bill? First of all, it is a bill that comes to abolish the principles of justice, redistributive character and solidarity, which the insurance system must have in a social state. You bring an insurance bill, which has in fact - and this has been illustrated by concrete figures from all the speeches made - by both SYRIZA's colleagues and our rapporteur, Mrs Ahtsioglou - is burdening the large, vast majority of the insured, the pensioners in terms of their income and the whole of the insured and especially the free professionals. It is a bill, which, according to your economic and social perception, seeks to serve private interests. In other words, to create those conditions and incentives so that the insured can gradually turn to private insurance. Of course, this is not without cost to the system itself, as it potentially creates problems of reducing the resources of the insurance system, when with great sacrifices of the Greek people we have been able to reach a point where the ECA is not in deficit, and in the future to bring about problems of new deficits. The draft law mainly serves the neoliberal perception of a public insurance scheme operating as a privileged policy, and private insurance will mainly meet the needs of the majority of the insured. Minister, clearly, the draft law burdens the majority of the pensioners. The numbers are catalysts, nine out of ten pensioners with this draft law and your overall policy will have an income reduction. Many Members have told you before, that you have the sad privilege of being a minister who has been abolished twice in your term of office the thirteenth pension. Let us recall that this is a thirteenth pension, which Mr Mitsotakis himself had said a few months ago at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, and he had committed himself to studying another mechanism. Of course, there was no other mechanism. There was a abolition of the institutionalised thirteenth pension that had been implemented. Of course, you can easily go out and say in communications that there was no 15th pension. Ask the eight hundred thousand pensioners who received it and the 1.7 million pensioners who proportionally had an income support. Of course, because you doubt that there will be reductions in the course of the year as far as pensions are concerned, it has already been mentioned to you - and here again the catalysts - that in the 2020 budget, which you implement as a government, there is a clear reduction of EUR 100 million in relation to the budget implemented in respect of pensions, last year in the 2019 budget, which the SYRIZA had voted and implemented. In all we have a government, which has this purely neoliberal character, but at the same time with 'Balcan' client characteristics. That is how you have also introduced a provision to ensure that the chosen party posters, who are currently serving at ministerial offices and other public posts, do not have any reduction in their pensions. As far as the insured - and here we are talking about freelance professionals - is revealed, Minister - you are obviously not interested in the position of counter-population - how much you calculate the small and medium-sized, professionals, the middle-class, who see every day how you feel the famous record of middle-class support, from insurance to tax, what is your support in practice in terms of freelance professionals. What does the law provide for as far as the insured are concerned? On the one hand, you disconnect contributions from income criteria and at the same time release the choice of class regardless of income. It is clear, therefore, that your whole logic serves, on the one hand, this restrictive policy and private interests. Through this regulation you are actually pushing and creating incentives for private insurance. In fact, the only ones who will see an increase within all pensioners are only seventy thousand young pensioners after 2016. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will close and not abuse your understanding. As far as your communication policy is concerned, you know, the New Democracy Government, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and you, Minister, are using communication tools. But this has close legs in the sense that people now live the reality and when you come out with such great complacency and say that after you there can be no other change of insurance...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I am closing my sentence. ...and you go out on the channels and say that SYRIZA and SYRIZA's "workers" are behind the mobilisations against your insurance bill, it is obvious that you do not understand the social reality, while it was the president of the ADEDY who was speaking on behalf of the mobilisations that was a chosen official of yours and a candidate MEP of the New Democracy. That is why you are now completely cut off from reality. Communication policy without reality, Minister, doesn't take you anywhere. Reality and society are the one that always prevails. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u127	Mr Kedicoglou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember the basics. The insurance system is basically a confidence agreement between the generations. The upcoming generation, today's workers agree to pay the pensions of the outgoing generation, the pensioners, on condition that this also applies when it comes out of the working period of her life. This agreement has been broken in recent years. The trust, especially of young workers in the insurance system, has been lost and, unfortunately, the phrases of the press "I don't want to feel bad, I want the money black in the hand, I slowly don't get retired and what pension I'll get, crumbs will be." To be honest about the reality of social security in the country we must all recognise the authenticity of these positions. It is true that we have been talking in Greece for years about the problems of the insurance system and about the need for real radical reform. Already the first committee set up at the then Ministry of Coordination, before the demographic issue appeared, had highlighted the major problem of the insurance system and the need to take immediate measures. The insurance system in Greece has been subject to claims, interventions and constant changes since its inception. In recent years due to the economic crisis, the recession, the shrinking, the social security system beyond its timeless pathogens has been a great victim of the new conditions. The Katorugalou law created implications and dead ends to all the insured in the country and not only did it solve problems and did not open up streets, but it also led to the conversion of the insurance system into a complex, unfair and non-contributory, so repulsive, system. For the first time in the history of the country's insurance system, the new reform of the Mitsotakis Government is accompanied by two scientific and fully documented studies. The first concerns a proportionate study, which demonstrates the viability of the insurance system by 2070 and the guarantee of pensions, of all pensions. The second is prepared by the Athens University of Economics and is a special scientific study of pension adequacy. Confidentiality returns by scientific indictment. The Ministry of Labour's bill solves distortions and sends SYRIZA's legislative caricatures to the time of history. It establishes an insurance system that is sustainable in the long term. This is the simplest system that has ever been in existence, as a national insurance institution is first created, e-ECA, the Electronic National Social Security Agency, which is part of the Single Utilities and Single Insurance Fund. Digital pensions are also established for the first time, a project aimed at facilitating the citizen and minimising the time for completing the administrative procedures required for its award. Let us not forget that the SYRIZA government inherited more than one million outstanding pensions, both major and ancillary, as well as recalculations that have never been made. Think of those who have lived for years without the pension they are entitled to. How do they live? We've all seen cases. There is still the complete disconnection of insurance contributions from the years of insurance, as well as the establishment of a new, innovative and free choice of insurance contributions. The new system of insurance for the first time establishes open categories of free choice insurance. The insured must choose one of the six insurance categories on the basis of their financial capacity and the provision for their future pension. In this way legal certainty is created and the management problems arising from the application of the former scheme are resolved definitively. The pension pay for all insured persons is calculated by the pay of fourteen months and not twelve, to stop the lies and the irresponsible claims. entrepreneurship is no longer punished, as in the past, for the SYRIZA Government has consciously imposed unbearable contributions to kneeling and discouraged a productive and creative part of the Greek economy on which growth depends, while at the same time strengthening the incentives for tax evasion. On the other hand, a breath is given through low contributions for the first five years of the start of their working life, and it will not oblige anyone free of charge after five years to give back the difference in the reduced contributions. For the narrow public sector, i.e. civil servants, soldiers, they are part of the ECA, who undertakes the execution and payment of pensions instead of the public sector. Finally, the multi-faceted primary sector, which is also a critical development pillar, is part of a favourable and protective framework for reduced insurance contributions. With the above changes in the New Democracy, we are blocking a large part of the economy from the mined areas of the deadlocked arrangements of the old system and, at the same time, forming a whole new system of insurance, law, simple and rewarding that will strengthen employment and productivity, and above all, we will regenerate the insurance consciousness. In conclusion, I would like to say that the New Democracy's draft law concludes the effort to rationalise and manage our insurance system on a sustainable basis. It is the first insurance bill after twelve years which has no reduction in pensions, on the contrary has increases. But, above all, the confidence agreement between the generations is restored, which is the most necessary condition for the operation and success of the insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-six Dutch students of law and three educational attendants of the "Study Association Codex". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Duria has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u131	Mrs Ahtsoglou, you have the floor to speak on a point of order, followed by Mrs Duña.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u132	On the side of SYRIZA, we are making a request for a roll-call vote with Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, a roll-call vote on the principle of the bill and a roll-call vote on Rule 47 on the abolition of the thirteenth pension. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents the request for a roll-call vote and reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] TAKE PAGE 209-210-211
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u133	Put it in order for the Bureau to be aware and to share. Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time our Government introduces an insurance bill, which is sustainable over time, just and contributory, an insurance bill that motivates workers to remain longer at work, aims at restoring their injustices to date by respecting the decisions of Greek justice and which aims to redefining the concept of social security. Social security will no longer be an obligation without benefit to the insured person, but a flexible option adapted to the insurance needs of each of us. This is because an innovative system of free choice of insurance contributions is in place, where everyone can freely choose the category of insurance contributions, depending on their financial capacity and the expectations of the pension. At the same time, the level of insurance contributions is at last decoupled from the years of insurance and from each other's income, while breathing is given to young freelance professionals through the introduction of low contributions in the first five years of their working life. This facility, in fact, free professionals will pay it voluntarily after the end of the five-year period, not as was the case until now with the law of the previous government. The insurance bill we have to vote on restores yet another series of distortions and injustices to the detriment of both insured mothers, widows, fellow people with special needs, uniforms, multi-tensions and pensioners who wanted to continue working. At the same time, it strengthens the level of pension remuneration by adjusting the rate of replacement of the main pensions. The bill is the first insurance bill after twelve years that does not involve any reduction in pensions, instead it provides for increases. Finally, the multi-faceted primary sector, namely fishermen, farmers and farmers, is treated by the new insurance with appropriate sensitivity, as it forms part of a specially favourable framework of reduced insurance contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to all these innovations, what gives me great pleasure in this new insurance system is its simplicity and its response to the modern need for speed and efficiency. This creates the electronic National Social Security Institution (e - EKKA), which includes the Single Utilities Fund and the Single Insurance Fund. The e-ECA achieves administrative and organisational integration of the insurance data of all employees in the country and digitizes all social security functions. Internet access to insurance, digital transformation of the process of awarding pensions, the possibility of electronic issue of attestations and certificates and the interoperability of such systems shall be made possible. What is extremely important is that digital pensions are first introduced in the history of our insurance system, an exercise aimed at facilitating the citizen, freedom from endless bureaucracy and speeding up the time to pay pensions. Our previous government inherited over a million unfinished pensions, but with the digitalisation of pensions these unacceptable pension delays will disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance systems are being created and put to the service of the citizen. Their purpose must be to make us feel safe for our health care and for our survival when we are no longer able to work. This achieves the draft law by setting social security on the fair, rewarding and modern basis that had to be set for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u135	Mrs Papakostas - Palioura from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important issue, the insurance system in the country. There is no doubt at all that the continuity and well-being of society and the hope of the social groups for a safe and healthy post-Government situation are judged on this front. From this moment on, the government has been genuinely and truly involved in its policy. We didn't share hollow promises. We didn't say much. Instead, we are moving towards stability and confidence in order to build a new economic reality for the country and the citizens. It is true that the social and security system in Greece is an area of important structural reforms for both the national economy and society as a whole. But to put things in place, we have to make some important assumptions: Admission first, then. In the past few years, numerous efforts have been made to rationalise and fairen the socio-security issue with the last of Law No.4387/2016, which created the Single Social Security Agency, EKKA. Have the expected results been? We can only say that we don't. Admission second. Is it true that Greek society is an ageing society where the workforce goes down while those who come out of the pension are growing? Yes, it is. Admission third. If the funds had not been consolidated by the Petralian law in 2009 by the government of Kostas Karamanlis, would the insurance system of the country have collapsed? Yes, it would have collapsed. So what do we do today? With this reform section we create the Electronic National Social Security Agency e - EKKA and we finalise the largest administrative and organisational integration as all pension and one-off providers are integrated. What do we do with that? The financial balance needed for the system and its organisational and operational rationalisation, the integration of all civil servants, officials and soldiers into the single pension system as particular categories of insured persons. It is a common assumption that the insurance system should be governed by the following principles: social justice, equality and solidarity, redistribution, compulsoryity and recompense and ending the unity, adequacy and sustainability of the system. With the bill we are debating today, then, we regulate social security, public law, compulsory for all workers, employees, self-employed, professionals and farmers. This is how we succeed in ensuring the adequacy of pensions and the sustainability of the national pension system as well as the electronic National Social Security Agency e-ECA. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in this bill contains provisions of the insurance reform that are characterised by a strong social and developmental sign. It is the first bill in the history of the country accompanied by a full specific proportional study on main and ancillary pensions and confirms the viability of the insurance system by 2070. For the first time, a new one-off rule is created for all, the minimum period of insurance for the basis of an autonomous one-off benefit is abolished and the single treatment of all insured persons is preferred, and the procedure for awarding such a benefit is simplified. It is the first insurance bill after twelve years which will have no reduction in pensions, on the contrary will have increases. With Article 23, all current and tomorrow's workers with thirty years of insurance and over who will see higher benefits when retired will be able to retire. In Articles 24 and 25 for the first time, the speeding-up of pensions in the case of successive insurance, for the purpose of establishing a pension entitlement, opens the required days of insurance from a thousand five hundred to a thousand in the case of the last activity or employment in order to address the difficulties of finding the insurance time resulting from the differentiation of social security institutions enrolled in the euro. Article 27 confers the right to employment on retired persons who wish to continue their work legally and who are already engaged in, or are engaged in, employment or who are legally resident in ECA insurance. Gross pensions, main and subsidiary, are reduced by 30% instead of 60% for as long as they work or maintain the status or activity. At the same time, Article 33 solves the problem of calculating the time of insurance for the remuneration of members of the boards of public limited companies and agricultural cooperatives by eliminating the injustices of the past, but above all the suffering suffered by the servants in the chosen forces of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, but also our pilots, those heroes of everyday life who are ready to give their lives to safeguard national sovereignty, not only are not affected by the new insurance system but are protected. At the same time, the contributions of the free professionals, the self-employed and the farmers will be calculated and paid with the new system of contributions, as the whole structure of the new insurance change for the freelance professionals, the self-employed and the farmers has been designed to help everyone choose a higher category for a much higher pension. We are also clearing with Article 37 the working time required from seventy-five days for the employee in fifty and for the self-employed from three months to two, in order to obtain an insurance capacity and health care benefits. But since, as I said before, the key feature of this bill is the positive social sign, let me also fill in the fact that here, through this plan, we look sensitively and respectfully at disabled people, which is why it is recommended to e - EKKA, the Disabled People's Reporting Directorate, with a view to enhancing the efficiency of the administration, the consolidation of a new human-centered operation, as well as the improvement of the quality of life of disabled people. At the same time, with Article 38, we are very sensitive to pensioners receiving an extra-institutional allowance or an absolute disability allowance or a blindness allowance, who will now be exempt from health care contributions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to invest in the new generation and support for new activities, to motivate young people to invest, to set up jobs, to restrain our forces, the powers of young people in the country, so we provide special care for young free professionals and self-employed people, and indeed with the new insurance law, it is extended not only to young scientists, as was the case until now, but also to every young person who decides to create his business, for reduced contributions in the first five years. One more important thing is that we put an end to the hostage of people who have been tortured for years with widow's pensions. Article 39 also eliminates injustice such as the age limit of fifty-two for widows or widows at the time of the death of their late spouses. Finally, with this draft law we are doing what we owe every intervention, it creates economies of scale with savings of resources and more efficient management of the human resources of the new eBRD in the interests of the insured. The administrative and organisational integration of the new eBRD will lead to a faster pension allocation, as to date for the award of the main, subsidiary and one single insured person, three different employees from three different entities. The creation of the e-ECA creates single insurance institutions. Only one employee will pay all three pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u137	And finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us in the New Democracy, all the majority Members of the majority are determined to correct the errors of previous legislation and to do what we promised to the Greek people. With realism and honesty we are dealing with the reality, with the sustainability of our insurance system, fair redistribution and stability. We're not going to hide behind our finger, nor mock ears that we shouldn't. However, we are not going to stress the social importance that each of our interventions must have. With these thoughts and the assurance that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is going to its reform work firmly and unequivocally, I urge you to move together in these areas and to give a clear signal to the Greek society that this time it has not been deceived, but it can again feel confidence and security from its political staff, as justice is restored, the returning nature of the system is strengthened and the disproportionate financial burden imposed on an important productive and creative part of the Greek economy, the middle class, is cancelled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u139	Mrs Theanoo Fotioou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, may I say something about a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u141	Let me give you the floor, Minister, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u142	On the subject of procedure, ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago SYRIZA tabled a roll-call vote on the entire bill. I personally believe that this action is insulting and hostile to the House, to the workers, to the pensioners, to justice itself...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u143	Minister, every parliamentary group has the right to decide how to behave. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u144	Let me explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u145	What can you explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u146	Because with this energy he comes to say that he is in favour of the anti-constitutional law of Katrugalo...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u147	Don't give up on the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u148	It is obsessed with unconstitutionality with the decisions of the Council of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u149	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u150	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I would like the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u152	Do you want the floor, Mr. Chakalote, do you? Who? Did Mrs. Ahchioglu? In order to avoid misunderstanding, I have proposed Mr Chakaloto, because he is a parliamentary representative, I do not deny. If you want to intervene, Mrs Ahchioglu, for a minute, please, to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA submitted the request for a roll-call vote. The position that any other insurance legislation other than Mr Brutsi is an insult to the Council of State is a position which does not know either what the decision of the Council of State or the right to legislative action is to legislate in the way it defines and to have political disagreement on how it legislates. So what the Council of State has said does not lead to a single option to regulate insurance. If that's possible! Otherwise, the Council of State would be the legislator. We therefore call for a roll-call vote in principle, because this insurance bill makes a violent redistribution to the detriment of low and medium-income - and we are therefore firmly opposed - while reducing the resources for the insurance system. From there on, the other article is the well-known article on the abolition of the thirteenth pension, which we have argued sufficiently, because we do not think it should be abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u154	Good. Thank you. Mrs Fotou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, a moment ago Mr Brutsi asked for the floor, because he felt the need to tell us, to explain to us, to confess to us eight reasons why all parties in opposition are in agreement with his law, but they do not know him and that is why they do not vote for him. This intervention of how do I describe it? Escape crisis from the unpleasant reality of Parliament or a crisis of majesty? I don't know and I'm not an expert on this. But, Mr. Brutsis, what each retired person asks today is whether he'll get in his pocket more money than what SYRIZA gave him. We answer him: Two million three hundred thousand pensioners will not see a single increase in their pockets in a total of two million six hundred thousand pensioners. So three hundred thousand will only see an increase and say how. Who are they? They are the seventy thousand young people, those who came out after 2016 and who have over thirty years of service. Who else? Two hundred and fifty thousand old who had a sum of principal and supplementary pension of up to 1,300 euros by 2016. The huge increases you advertised on the channels are for few. For example, in order to get a EUR 252 increase per month, he must have had a pension salary of three and a half thousand and forty years of insurance. You'll find them. On the contrary, all pensioners, and the two million six hundred thousand, will see reductions from the abolition of the thirteenth pension that you voted on last year on 15-5-19. For the purposes of Article 120 of Law No 4611/2019: ‘Retired persons shall be granted a pension from 2019 and for each subsequent year of the following tenth year’. Do you read what you're voting on? Either you don't read or you're a crook. To keep it, Mr Mitsotakis promised the 15th pension, but when it comes to pensioners, Mr Mitsotakis easily forgets. He doesn't forget the others, his friends, his best friends. Last year it was given as the thirteenth pension of ninety - seventy million. These will be missing from the pocket of two million six hundred thousand pensioners. But they will also be missing from the uninsured overages of EUR 360 per month. And they're gonna miss them. And it's the second time Mr. Brutsis has cut the thirteenth pension. The first one was in the second memorial, seven years ago, November 2012. Today she's retiring while we're no longer in memoirs. Why, you see, Mr. Brutsis always strikes twice. For two months now, we have experienced a huge communal deception of the new insurance bill that would finally give pensioners what SYRIZA cut them off. The most interesting thing is that Mr Brutsis and the Members of the New Democracy who have come to the committees have believed this. Unfortunately, the numbers are ruthless. The measures taken to increase pensions cost 370 million. If I'm wrong, bring us denial and paper. The abolition costs 970 million. These are the numbers that are ruthless. So it shows how much pensioners lose. And the worst: What does the proportionate study show that you are proud of? That pension expenditure over the next twenty years will be reduced every year. For example, in 2020 with the Katrugalos Act this year, a pensioner with over thirty years of insurance would take the time of EUR 9,800, while the Brutsis Act takes EUR 9,600, that is, EUR 120 less. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theano Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That seemed, because you actually have 200 million less in the budget. But that is what the institutions were asking, precisely, to reduce pension spending every year. That's what the IMF was asking for, and that's what you're doing. You do, while we're out of memorials, when from 2009 to 2015 you were a minister then to the governments of New Democracy and you cut off 4 billion from pensions. These are not forgotten, because that is what neoliberalism does, both within the memorandum and outside the memorandum itself. Deception second: Mr. Brutsi's brand-new bill, his huge reform, is a copy of a bad and biased SYRIZA's insurance reform. The social partners have said so, the Court of Auditors of the State certifies it. In 2016 the law of SYRIZA, however, found the reserves of the funds looted, found a system ready to collapse, found huge deficits with almost impossible to pay the pensions and found a system characterized by unfair treatment between insured and extensive inequality. Today's bill maintains the structure of the single body and uniform rules, but abolishes the principle of social justice and redistribution. We've all said that. So we're going a lot backwards. Third deception: In order to show Mr Brutsi that he supports the single body which has previously denounced him the single institution of the EBRD, he attempts to merge on the map of the EBRD and the Fund, the EBRD. This merger will cause further delays in pension awards. Already, despite communication tricks, the loose ends increase every month. We left you in June 2019 at seven thousand pension outstandings, as certified by the two official bodies, the ECA and the EIB, in a document I submit. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theano Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How many are today, Mr. Brutsi, the loose ends? One hundred and sixty thousand we learn. Get me the corresponding paperwork with what I'm filing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Defraud fourth: Insurance contributions or the freedom of the insured person to be taken into consideration. You're asking us if we know the market, the free professionals, the small and medium-sized ones, etc. It appears that you do not know that the connection between contributions and income was a request from the free professions. You didn't get any news, you didn't have kids, you know, the same people, that thousands of unemployed architects, engineers, lawyers were found uninsured because they couldn't pay their insurance contributions. But I knew, apart from you, that the PASOK and New Democracy contribution system with the arbitrary insurance classes was that led to unthinkable debts in the insurance system itself. The GSE told you that it is not right to abolish the connection between contributions and income. Is GATT an irresponsible place to represent exactly the small and medium-sized and free professionals? You chose to change insurance contributions in the most unfair way. Example: Whoever has seventy thousand income annually will pay the same contribution as the one with seven thousand, that is, both EUR 220 This is your social justice, your class share.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u156	Ms. Fotio, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u157	I shall conclude, Mr President. Always in favour of high incomes. So you open the way for insurance companies, since high incomes are exempted from public insurance contributions, to give them to private business. In this way, nine out of ten SMEs and free traders will have increased by 20% of their contributions. They pay for a huge reduction in their contributions. Remove the proportionality of burdens that are the beginning of the Constitution, that is to say, everyone pays according to their potential. This principle of proportionality only holds a card for the employees. You don't care if you supply the deficits to the public insurance system in this way and resubmit it. And suddenly you're cut off for constitutionality. That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u158	Mrs. Fotio, come on, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u159	Deception is at some point revealed, Mr President, and then the anger is great. We, of course, are voting against the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u160	Mrs Giannakopoulou Konstantina has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, we are today inviting ourselves to discuss another demonstrable bill of government, another bill with which the New Democracy would fulfil the great expectations she had put forward in an election. A year ago, the Prime Minister said that the Katrugalou law would be abolished and replaced by a new and sustainable insurance system. The reality, of course, disproves him, as the New Democracy bill is not only a reform, but is exhausted in some important corrective moves, adopts as the basis of the regulations of the Katrugalos law, improves over there that needs to be improved on the basis of S.A.'s observations. and unfortunately, this does not lead to the creation of a modern, fair and sustainable insurance system. We have waited for a substantial reform, and unfortunately we do not see it, Minister. Reforming at the present stage would be at least to stimulate returnability as an additional incentive for insurance, which, of course, means increased revenues, due to contributions. And reform at this stage would at least mean opening up the second pillar of insurance. And that doesn't mean opening private insurance. It means very simply and I am referring specifically to occupational insurance, as in all the other countries of the European Union, as in all developed countries, where there are reinforced professional funds, which they can also invest. Unfortunately this draft law does not open this very important door. We have disagreed and disagreed vertically and with the policy that SYRIZA has seen in recent years. What did he actually do? He went to create an insurance system based on preferential contributions, an insurance system which, in fact, led to a levelling-up. But I have the feeling that the New Democracy is based on exactly the opposite direction. What's actually going on? It shrinks and consolidates, essentially, a fund of main and subsidiary insurance in order to open up - and not hide - the way to private insurance rather than the logic of professional funds, but the individual resolution of each's insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, no one disputes that insurance is a very complicated issue. His viability in Greece of the crisis and in the period of attempting to enter a new phase of insurance is not guaranteed. In this country of about two and a half million pensioners, where the proportion of pensioners and workers is virtually one by one, there is a risk that we should not just see pay, not see the unemployment rate, not to see the future of young people. Today, at international and European level, pension systems do not dominate the spirit of solidarity and equality between generations, proportionality, the guarantee of adequate pension systems, the establishment of a social state as part of development and social policy, which will allow a decent standard of living and at the same time prevent the poverty of the pension population. Today, it is as ever necessary for national dialogue to make a substantial social security reform. You can't design an insurance system unless you connect it to growth. You can't design an insurance system if you don't have integrated demographic management plans that are one of the biggest problems in the country. You cannot design an insurance system without finding and having new resources, which will be able to restore justice and secure the future. The new insurance bill, not just leads to a dead end, but even worse, does not guarantee the future of the new generation. I shall mention very indicative and very briefly the black points of the new insurance policy. Firstly, it essentially maintains the injustices of the Katrugalo Law for the economically weaker pensioners, for disability and widowhood pensions, for the relatives from Albania and Pontto, for agricultural incomes that cut them horizontally by 30%, for the fact that it removes any prospect of paying a third normal pension, as we have proposed. Of course, it must be understood that the decoupling of the income levy is a necessary change. We had first emerged that this connection of the Katrugalo Law creates a clear incentive for tax evasion and tax evasion. On the other hand, we must not all get locked up in a single compulsory insurance category. I am saying this specifically for entrepreneurs, where more categories need to be created, so that we do not actually get to the point that the owners of an undertaking pay less and less insurance contributions than the workers. All of this leads us to conclude that the Brutsi Act and the Katrugalu Law are based on the same philosophy. It is simply correcting the provisions on which the Council of State has decided. Actually, it's the same thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Please warmly. How, then, can the new insurance be proclaimed as a development omen, which should be, but unfortunately cannot be done with the new bill? When we really talk about reforms in insurance, we mean proposals that approach the citizen and respect the labors of pensioners. We mean serious reforms, such as those that PASOK did, such as the establishment of the National Analogue Authority, such as the creation of the EEAS, as the KEPA was, as was the Generation Solidarity Insurance Fund. Nowhere, Minister, there is no provision in your bill to find new resources for insurance. So, is anyone interested in the new generation? All the laws of the Memorandum, trying not to have any harder measures against today's workers and against the current pensioners, worked as if they were being borrowed from the future. What are we gonna do about these people? The right insurance reform comes with long-term plans based on a new generation's development plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that we are here to launch a genuine national dialogue on genuine insurance reform, in order to ensure justice and sustainability, dignity for pensioners, but also to guarantee to young people that we ensure that they have equivalent rights at the end of their working lives. The Change Movement, from the beginning, stressed the need to abolish the Katorugalou law. In fact, we have tabled a specific amendment calling for all the injustices of previous years to be lifted with concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u162	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President. Only on such terms can we talk about a substantial and real insurance reform. And only in such cases, of course, could we vote in favour of this draft law, which unfortunately does not solve the problem. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u164	Mr Georgios Kotsiras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that voting on a draft law on social security is a very important legislative procedure. This is because it concerns the present, the future of the country, the workers, the new generation of pensioners and generally reflects social struggles, social needs, especially during this period, the beginning of a new decade of challenges for Greek society, for our country. It is particularly important that this bill is accompanied by two studies, which show the proper preparation and processing that has been done, but also the depth to which the Ministry of Labour and the Government is investing in being able to resolve such an important issue over a period of time, not fragmentary and not impedimental. As the Minister said earlier, sustainability is ensured by 2070. There is also a proportionate study concerning supplementary pensions and the other part. After 11 years, we bring a bill that doesn't reduce pensions after a difficult decade for our country. On the contrary, the present and tomorrow's workers in the country who will have thirty years of insurance will see with the new law higher benefits. The new insurance reform embraces all today's workers and favours tomorrow's pensioners, giving prospects to an issue that concerns the future of our country. The current reform section attempts to create the Electronic National Social Security Agency, which includes the EIF and the EIF, and finalises the greater administrative and organisational integration of the overall system. This creates a new digital and effective insurance system, modern and equivalent to the new data that a modern economy and a modern society must have. It helps retired people. It restores their dignity. He's getting into new challenges in the new decade. It is extremely important and, in my view, given the difficulties they have encountered - and we very soon hope to reduce this problem - young people, who enter their professional life in the years of the crisis, are given special attention to young free professionals. In fact, it is expanded not only to young scientists, but also to other free professionals, which are concerned with reduced contributions, which will exist for the first five years and will not be forced by any single professional after five years to give back the difference of reduced contributions and the first insurance category, as required by the previous law. Insurance reform encourages young people to join the production process. And this is particularly important for the new generation that was struggling to career in a particularly hostile and difficult tax and insurance environment. We create incentives for this generation, on which the Greek economy and the Greek society will rely in the coming years. We provide young people with the support they need until they establish themselves professionally. And this possibility of a reduced contribution of up to five years for young professionals, which will not be an insurance debt, is a first step in this direction. This measure can also be combined with other tools, which can be exploited, such as the NSRP to support entrepreneurship and other actions, to contribute to the repatriation effort, on the one hand, of young people who left abroad, but, in particular, of the new generation, which has been left in the country over the last decade, it has fought, set back to correct the Greek economy. This generation must also slowly see an improvement in its daily life by exempting from unnecessary burdens. We therefore support and vote for a returning and flexible system. Free professional farmers self-employed choose insurance contributions freely, depending on their financial capacity and pension earnings. They are thus freed from a suffocating and binding system of contributions, while, at the same time, insurance is cultivated, restoring recompense. At the same time, the new system is anthropocentric as it moves on the main axis of social policy for which the New Democracy has committed itself. It is recommended to the e - ECA Special Directorate for Reporting on SME issues in order to enhance the effectiveness of the administration, while in its many other arrangements, the Minister, and the rapporteur of the New Democracy, has analysed them, and also concerns cases such as working mothers, widows and special categories of our fellow citizens, the Armed Forces, the primary sector and farmers. This solves the structural problems created by the former regime and we can now enter a time of greater developmental logic. And in this part of the development logic, the issue of insurance reform really is interlinked. The importance of investment in our country as a key driver for growth in the economy is directly linked to insurance, and that is why we are improving the competitiveness of businesses, stimulating investment, strengthening new recruitment, thus increasing employment and reducing unemployment, which, with the former regime and overtaxation, together with excessive insurance contributions, was impossible to happen. The philosophy of the new bill is completely different and it is not just a matter of the decision of the Council of State. I would like to dwell on a special category of fellow citizens affected by the former regime, the free traders. I have heard Mrs Fotou earlier that it was a consistent claim for freelance professionals to disconnect insurance contributions from income. I remember in the Katorugalou law that there would be the obsolete movement at the time of "the tie movement" that reacted to this connection with a logic not as a syndicate, but with a reasonable developmental one. What do we want, ladies and gentlemen? There is a system that will motivate the free professional, the new scientist to produce, not to make him hostage to a certain income, so that it is a counterproductive process downwards. We want him to be able to develop his professional activity, to be able to enter the free economy even more powerfully, to have a chance rather than to stand by in order to be satisfied with an income which may indeed have allowed him to be marginally less insurance contributions, which, of course, is less burdensome now than the tax, but which did not give him any prospect. We want the new generation to have prospects, to be able to enter the profession and to move forward and not to be locked up with a criminalised Greek economy at the level of insurance contributions and with a logic of complete counter-mobilisation. We, therefore, are completely opposed to this logic and the section that this bill brings is really important, because the sum of insurance contributions and taxes is now smaller even in the first category. But most of all, it stimulates the free professional, the new scientist, the « tie movement» that some people then mocked, can develop their professional activity, their social personality and their integration into professional life. I am also sorry to hear Mrs Fotou say whether we are reading what we are voting on or are fraudulent. Obviously, we're reading what we're voting on. Another question was whether some frauds were publicly and received the answer from the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u166	Mrs Biziu Stergiani has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, simplicity, freedom, flexibility, justice and recompense. If someone attempts to describe the new insurance, these would be the five most characteristic words, five words that illustrate the structure and objectives of the insurance reform that the Ministry of Labour promoted by the draft law. The insurance system was never an easy case for Greece. It has always constituted a field of conflict, both at social and political level. He was paid for many changes and was subjected to multiple reforms, never accepted by the whole political world or society. In the years of the crisis, the insurance system of the country, in addition to the diseases characterised by it over time, has faced other problems, such as massive unemployment and the migration of the country's productive potential. And as if these suffering were not enough, he fell victim to the previous government and the Katorugalo Law. This bill aspires to leave behind all the pathogens that so much troubled the insurance system itself and much more the insured. The aim is to be a tool for many decades in the future. What, however, are the innovative arrangements and changes brought about by the Ministry of Labour's bill, which will have a direct impact on workers and the insured? The top regulation is that the brutal, anachronistic and unacceptable system for calculating contributions from non-wages of the previous law is abolished. It was a system designed to eliminate the free professionals, the productive order of the Greeks. A system that looked more like tax than insurance. The method of calculating taxable income contributions does not only result in fewer contributions being collected, but also in a hidden taxable income and therefore in a loss of public revenue. Imported arrangements are now decommissioning taxable income from contributions. Six categories of insurance are established. Everyone can choose according to their financial capacity rather than the years of insurance. Of the six insurance scales only the first of them is compulsory. The remaining five are optional. There is no doubt that this is a universal acceptance regulation that has been welcomed by all the insurers in the country. A positive sign has this bill for the country's primary sector, for farmers, farmers and fishermen, as this so sensitive sector of our economy is part of a special favourable and protective framework of insurance contributions. Particularly important regulations are introduced for people who are heterogeneous. For these, the first class of insurance is not in force and is in the second category. But in the event that the contribution of this class is covered by the contributions paid by the farmer as an employee, he is not paying anything to the OGA. If the difference from the offer which he pays from his second job as an employee is not covered, he will pay the amount needed until the amount of the second class has been completed. I'm personally elected to an eminent rural county in Larissa. I am well aware of the problems, the challenges, the deadlocks that our farmers face. I am also well aware that our country will not be able to take the step in the future unless it is protected and the primary sector is not supported. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis practically supports the Greek farmer and farmers and with this bill we prove this once again. I'm coming to the e-fax. A real innovation that is expected to change the way in which citizens are traded with their insurance institution is the creation of the National Insurance Agency, the electronic ECA, to which all funds will fall. The establishment of the e-ECA aims at organisational and administrative integration with three independent and strictly independent economic sectors, with the accounting and financial autonomy of the main pension, subsidiary and one-off provision. With this system, the country enters a new era by unifying the insurance data base and digitising all social security functions. Each citizen will have online access to digital services. Digital transformation will be more user-friendly for services such as the editing process, the electronic issue of attestations and certificates, the interoperability of systems. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a really reform bill, the first insurance bill after eleven years which will not bring any reduction in pensions. Social security is the pillar of working life. The insurance system must exist in order to ensure the living conditions of individuals in a society and to combat the uncertainty that the individual feels after leaving the workplace. This is a bill with scientific documentation, the result of a dialogue with the social partners and civil society, together for the first time with a full proportionate study guaranteeing the viability of the system within a framework of solidarity, social justice, equality and human dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, those who are in this historic Chamber have an obligation to work for the generation that has left the country, but also for the next ones who need to be visioned and dreamed in our country. We need our political attitude and behaviour to build a relationship of trust with the citizens again, to prove to them every day that this is the deepest objective of our policy. This bill is a pillar of these political acts. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Agrarian Cooperatives and other provisions'. Mr Papadimitriou Charalambos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that I will be voting in favour of the Brutsi bill, because it corrects injustices, nonsense and things which, if we allowed them to continue over the next few years, we would have even greater problems in the social sector and among workers. It is equally obvious that Mr Brutsi - as he has said in committee too - has considered correcting a particular injustice, in my opinion, concerning health reservations, set at EUR 66 for freelance professionals, while for employees they remain proportionate to their income. I hope you'll bring it soon, Minister. It is equally obvious that the reorganisation of the insurance with e-ECA will enable the state to acquire a price at least at the last minute vis-à-vis retired persons, giving them the pension at the time and the day that they will be retired. If that is the case, the next step will be for workers to acquire until they become retired a tool of hope, which is the individual account that they can see and consult at any time. Equally important is to reiterate the credibility that the Report of the Analogue Authority gives in this bill in a consistent and continuous manner and not at any time bring in a new draft law, a regulation on pension insurance. I think the Analogue Authority should have the means - it has unfortunately not even existed, it has not even been, it has been created, and Mr Brutsi has given her a status, because it brings her work at the same time as the current draft law - to be able to publish at regular intervals and to revise whenever necessary the elements of the actuarial impact that pension expenditure has on the public debt. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely expected - because this is how our system works, and you all know it - that at the moment there is no money to pay for future pensions. And this is a huge problem, because grandparents and grandparents who will receive their pension expect their children to work and their reservations to finance, as well as their taxation to pay for their pensions. We've put the world backwards for many years. And, unfortunately, for all these years, we have refused to put him back on his feet. I mean, I'm waiting - and I'll wait as long as necessary and as long as God will give me the opportunity to wait for it - to finally build a system with a smash of capital. A system with a motif is what shows confidence in the working person to believe that he doesn't work the curly, that he doesn't give it to a wasted state and that with what he does, he ensures not only himself, but also his children from the obligation to age him in difficult conditions. And because, Minister, it is humanly impossible to predict what will happen by 2070 - and this is why pension expenditure in the Report on Analogy with both the previous and the present proposed system practically coincides with - we need even more a system that puts the individual, the private and the systems, which, thank God, modern economies - but not ours - have the confidence of all that remains to happen. When we say 'insurance', when we say'retired', we are actually insured a future risk, old age. We ensure the problem of ageing a human being finds himself without sufficient income. Mr Brutsi's new, very important intervention is - and I say this because I have known him for several years to know where his personal passion has been and has taken from everything that has been discussed in recent years, the crucial issues and put them in the draft law which I ask you to vote for together - the separation of national pensions so that this debate on the welfare pension issue, in which I think we all agree on the amount of pension - the 384, is what we can now put - from the payroll. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] In the reward I imagine that the individual account will give this future hope, it will convince people to stop accepting the degradation of the worker's human status when after the 15th year, for the last 40 years, they have accepted the employer to steal their contributions and our trade unions elsewhere at the time when, for all these years, we believed that our system has had reserves, and already in 1982 Solomon, commander of IKA on PASOK, said - and in a book he has written it - that we have already started paying since the budget. So I think we should pay tribute, but also consider the next step in this way, if I may: The first reformer of the pension system, who had the guts to do it, was the prime minister at that time, Constantine Mitsotakis. Giorgos Souflias - and I say it, because I still remember the hundred thousand people in front of Syntagma Square shouting every day to get back the September 1990 arrangement - he had the courage, with his loss and even his hearing, to keep to the end. People like Stefano Mano, who also introduced the further organization of the system and Dimitris Sioufas into your Ministry, Mr Brutsi, people like Mr Spraios who was recommended then, at the direction of then Prime Minister Simitis, people like Tasos Yannitsi who said the truth, and we did do not hear it, because when you shout too much, it makes sense not to listen, even to people like Mrs Petrelia who did something simpler, but took the first step towards unification, which the current government rightly admits that the Katrugalos law well defined on this axis, I think we should honour them. And we will best honour them if, Madam President, we organise the pension system in order to rely on growth, that is to say, on the country's ability to produce income, produce a product and, therefore, ensure better pensions and not on pensions for which it will be hanged by the taxpayer's trousers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u170	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by 50 students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High School of Kilkis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of a social state is identical to the incarnation of solidarity in an organised state. The economy and society are inextricably linked to a relationship which, after the policies pursued in the past, has evolved into an epidemic of problems. Starting from the first article of the draft law, the rename of EVA by a Single Social Security Agency to an Electronic National Social Security Agency e - EVA is considered unnecessary, costless and promoted without any special reason for further costing the institution's substance. The resources from which the new national body is powered we believe should be more extensive. You leave out a large number of categories of excise duties on various products. An addition which gives us a large number of questions is that of Article 6(5), since it allows external contractors to keep books and prepare financial statements. On what grounds? Because these services cannot be covered by the institution itself? Should there not be a specific design to avoid further charges by external contractors and needs to be met by him? So you're going to overcoming the subsecution he's suffering from? Theoretically, there are a number of theories and wishes, but in practice if someone visits the funds they will understand the size of the subsistence and inability of employees to respond in time to requests because of the particularly high volume. With regard to the Register of Insurance Entities of the Electronic National Insurance Agency and the procedure for registering the applications of the various changes, a specific time limit should be set for the processing of applications by the institution to finally eliminate the chronic phenomenon of delays. Likewise, we express our reservations about the smooth functioning of this perspective. I would also like to point out the need to strengthen social protection in favour of vulnerable groups as cash benefits should be proportionate to the actual income of the insured person. It is necessary to alleviate inequalities with an emphasis on effective protection of vulnerable population groups. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is essential that those who are over forty years of insurance, such as inland transporters, should not be excessively charged with contributions. Greece has a very strong paper which must finally be used to the fullest extent, that of primary production. The domestic agricultural holding will enable our country to strengthen its economy. The assessment of both the sustainability and the suitability of social protection and pension systems is imperative. The same is necessary to protect and implement measures to address the specific circumstances of the particular hazard groups and to develop social security in order to ensure that the income support and access to the health system as a whole are properly guaranteed. Subsequently, with regard to the award of the pension referred to in Article 17 and its digital transformation without giving specific thresholds for its award, there is no specific provision for more rapid awarding to specific recipient groups. We doubt whether and whether the allocation times will be improved. In particular, the inequality of dealing with retired workers who are working, established under timeliness, is outrageous and completely unfair. We must finally understand the following. In order to ensure the sustainability of the insurance system, the bases on which it is based, i.e. the economically active population of the country, must be ensured. The more he is convicted, the farther we go from the target and the real changes. We must not overlook the great thorn which has a radical effect on the issue, namely the burning demographic problem, which is one of the greatest obstacles to development. It is a major obstacle to prosperity and, of course, has as a basic consequence both the ageing of the population and the reduction of the workforce. After all, the reports are clear. In forty years from today, the projected working age population in Greece between twenty and sixty-four years will shrink by 35%. This condensates them all, the consequences will be chains. Pensioners are suffering now having reached the last point demanding a decent living and still will not see any substantial change in their pensions. If it doesn't change the course of the collapse with the existing indicators, two are for sure. Firstly, the insurance system will be constantly and irreparably burdened. And secondly, that pension is going to collapse completely. We, as a Greek Solution, always in the interest of Greek citizens, stress that we should not remain mere observers at the sacrifice of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u172	Thank you too, my colleague. Now Mr. Poppas has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Madam President. We welcome Mr Brutsi to a normal parliamentary procedure because he has so far been used to treat us as a parliamentary burglar, making normal boulder in the House five minutes before the completion of the procedure when we were discussing the final state or as a parliamentary smuggler, charging a number of working arrangements for so-called development law. And of course Mr Brutsis is coming now and he is bringing about a major reform, which is, of course, not a great reform, but has a key element, that is, 8% cuts for the maximum majority of pensioners. You are cutting off your thirteenth pension, what you called an allowance and making fun of it. Here we are, and we shall vote by roll-call vote. You have to tell us how many pensioners will lose that allowance. You have to tell us how many free professionals will pay more than they would pay with our own reform. I hear charges from everywhere about the Katrugalu law. The Katorugalou Act was a real fundamental reform of the insurance system, firstly, because it introduced the elements of the justice which must exist in an insurance system and, secondly, because it solved the problem that our government had inherited the nine hundred different ways of calculating pensions. Because in Greece we practically did not have an insurance system. We had multiple systems of insurance for various professional groups. A peculiarism that every professional group that could exert political pressure was able for itself to have favourable arrangements. And you come now and take initiatives in a very specific direction. Your direction is to extremize the middle class, which may have a more economic potential for private insurance, and that is why I think no one can really be fooled. The free choice of class regardless of income benefits high and very high incomes. In other words, someone with an income of EUR 70,000 will pay the same contribution as the one with an income of EUR 7 000. What sense of justice can it accept such a type of regulation? Have you considered the possibility that free professionals will re-enter the range of the inability to pay their insurance contributions? Do you have any assessment of whether or not this will happen? Do you not know that in the years of your amazing governance, which you have done all right, the maximum majority of free professionals have dealt with the range of bankruptcy, precisely because of the inability to pay insurance contributions? You brought them a second gift to raise insurance contributions. The first was the increased accounts of electricity. And the third comes with the "HERAKLE" and the liquidation of the property of what is due. There are difficult days coming from both the global economy and instead of taking measures to fortify the Greek economy you have the opposite direction. Needless to say, other speakers have said so, that our own reform has proved to be a miracle. For the first time Greece had a surplus insurance system. I have heard a spokesman of the New Democracy say that we must turn the world back on the normal time and not on the feet up and that we must stop the generations who are now working to pay for the generations that are retired. I don't know how you can explain that. In any system any beneficiary at any time of his or her retirement life will have an economic gain and will go to buy products that have been produced at the same time. So by any system pensioners expect to enjoy products that have been produced at that time. What is the difference in the system that we defend and have sought to build? The difference is that it is based on the ideas of intergenerational and endogenous solidarity, solidarity within generations, that is, they are redistributing, and solidarity between generations, that is, the generations who are now working to pay, work and contribute to the pensions of the generation that has been retired and continue just this interdependent, this constant social contract. It is precisely the system which we have established and advanced that prejudges a political, social alliance. Because it binds the expectations of the wage earner with the self-employed and when EVA was founded, the slogan "all together stronger". That was the FYROM's motto. And the "all together stronger" is on the opposite bank of the "sacrificing self-sacrificing", this is your government's advocating it, chasing it and trying to enforce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u174	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Papariga, Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u175	This bill, which will unfortunately also be the law, is a new one - I have forgotten the numbers - a round of attack on the workers as a whole, and not just on the pensioners, and a subsequent one. In the next few years, we will have new rounds, regardless of who will be a government, or as long as parties who are interested in supporting this system are in power. We are not dealing with this bill alone as a matter of social security. First of all, social security is not just retirement, but it's also retirement, it's welfare, it's health, they're people with disabilities, etc. We are looking into it in conjunction with all the projects that have been going through, and since 1974, but particularly since 1985, and especially since the crisis, with the issue of 'job, wages, labour relations'. It's not cut off. Because the workers must see them all together. They must see them all together, from which wage base they are starting today, from which employment relationships, the problem of unemployment. And if you wish, it is confirmed that the measures taken during the crisis - of course they were taken during the crisis - were barbaric because they were taken together, in a short time, by all governments. In fact, however, they are measures that start from employment and reach retirement, which were first planned in the mid-1970s and, in particular, after the 1973 capitalist economic crisis, which was not only oil and monetary, and gradually passed from country to country, they were of course enriched along the way. Because from that time onwards it was decided to put an end to any conquests after World War II in Europe and in some other states and now capitalism had to go through a new phase and create a modern, cheap labour force. There have been too many modernizations, "wonders" told them by Mr Papapas. Miracle the integration of the two hundred and fifty so many insurance funds, which started before you, is not done by you. You want to say "wonder"? Eighth, ninth, tenth, say it what you want. We accept that the system makes modernisations, except that modernisations do not always have a positive face. They are modernizations which serve the system, which serve the capital, and are modernizations used to increase the exploitation of workers. I want to talk about one or two issues. I think, Mr Brutsis, the argument you have put forward, that in any case it is more fair that those who are retiring thirty years or more, up to forty years, should have more increases than those who are under thirty years' time. Sounds normal, too. And I ask you: What depends on whether a worker or a worker can always work thirty and forty years? Doesn't it depend on the level of unemployment? Unemployment in 2009 was seven hundred thousand, the registered unemployment, and then we and some other parties, who did not believe that there would be a government and could sell seaweed for silk ribbons, said that there is also unregistered unemployment, that is to say, those young people who are seeking jobs after they have finished the university and cannot find jobs, who are not recorded because they are not fired. They are not recorded as unemployed. There are also elastic forms of employment, which in some sectors existed. Of course, it doubled, and possibly even more, the time of the crisis. That's how it's done in the crisis. For, before the crisis, how many women could have completed forty years of continuous employment? They could have been civil servants, yes, that is, women who were mostly in the public service. Because when they did their children and were unable to send them back to a nursery or they had to go home, they did not stop and do what they could do, because they could not go back to the public. Who were they leaving and going to their homes? The workers, the women who did various jobs in factories, will always think that their children will grow up a few years and come back. Let us let that there was no equal pay for the same job and there is no today either. So you show it as if those who have been working for forty years and look, don't think I'm starting with personal experience, because I've had forty years of continuous insurance. That's not the point. Me, and I did, most of them can't have. So with this excuse you can limit to a very small number of people who will get something more. It says from EUR 9 to EUR 209 the pensions go up. But 50% and 60% have been lost for many during the crisis. With this bill, you sanctified the Katrugalu law. In what sense? You are building him better and you are correcting individual issues because this is how the Council of State decided. You write down all the losses that workers had during the crisis and write down, if you like, and lose them before the crisis. You will tell me 'The JRC is more sensitive than the other parties'. The position we have put forward and with specific requests: to return all the stolen funds, because these have been stolen since the early 1950s, cumulatively, the reserves of the funds have been stolen, not to mention the famous PSI, which has become a haircut for the rescue of the banks and have been lost within a night of 10 billion. We say that the state and labour cost will be paid and that there will be no reduction in the insurance contributions of entrepreneurs. Because these insurance contributions will not be passed on to workers' wages, they will be retained for themselves. We're talking about the full restoration of losses. Thirteenth and fourteenth normal, not allowances based on the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, etc., reduction of the pension thresholds. Are we more socially sensitive than the other parties? Oh, no. Why don't you check it out? We don't start with sensitivity. Of course there is sensitivity, but our sensitivity is built on an objective fact: we accept the uncompromising contrast of capital and labour. If they want the workers to improve their position, they have to lose the capital. He won't lose everything, but something must lose, reduce its profits. All the others are sensitive in both directions and you are mocking your people, that there may be measures that benefit and entrepreneurship - and when you say 'business' you do not now mean a person who has a shop, even if I do at the most to employ his wife in the shop or know how to employ a worker - you speak of the beasts, business groups and those who are crowned around them, and that they can benefit from both of them. No, one will benefit or the other will damage and do not use the argument that BSE, and when it was the SYRIZA government and now, he is asking for something more. This is the relationship between capital and the political government that supports it. The capital is obliged to sit there because it fears that the government in question is under pressure from the workers, under the pressure that, if you like, accepts its electoral basis - because the electoral base of the parties is a greater part of the party, and it is not enough to vote for the bourgeoisie - it is vigilant in the face of a pre-election period if certain benefits are made, little more and in this sense, there is no case that the BSE has not put pressure on the government in question, whether it was the New Democracy, whether it was the PASOK or SYRIZA. We therefore start from the contrast that the worker is paid for in his work or receives a small part of the product he produces, from the goodwill he produces and that is capital. Can I tell you something? Where's the employer's insurance contributions from? It is from the theft made to the worker and part of it returns to it in the form of insurance contributions. You don't even leave that standing. You are reducing insurance contributions, i.e. raising theft, legalized in the circumstances, to workers. I will insist on this issue. The measures have been taken since then, since 1973 it has been decided to select these measures. They first applied them to Chile, and even if I remember, then you were called a coalition and you were on the bars and said about the government, if I'm not mistaken, PASOK, that it was the Pinochet government that brings these measures. Look, all governments are applying the measures to the capitalist system. Now because the Chilean government has been chosen and has proposed to implement them, we do not know. Afterwards, Thatcher and your dads, the left refreshment current, said that the glacier of decay, the glacier of the rugged, was dominated. Do what you can to acquit the system. Of course, one government can take the measures package all, the other to take them with manoeuvre, one to give, one to make selective benefits to one department, one group of workers, and all that is normal. What was the Yankee bill that, of course, the mobilizations overthrown it? Was it far from that? Or the law, Sufah. That's before the crisis. In this sense, whether we are in crisis, or we are in development, workers pay them. One final point I would like to make is this: Greece will actually pass, because the other countries have gone through, in modern forms of poverty. No, we will not have the picture of poverty in the 1950s or of pre-war poverty. I do not know how many you saw this project, the "Paris". What did we see? People who live on the descent, but they all have a cell phone, because without a cell phone they have to look for a job, give someone an address to hire them at work, and they can't give them the descent that some people do out of the way and make their need. In the United States there are new ways of resolving the housing problem. Large parking lot, huge car park where there are people and families who were fired, lost their home because, of course, you only get the house with loans, but they kept the car and the laptop, the mobile phone and live in these big supermarkets. Because now we have new forms of work. To conclude, all these measures that have been taken for years either with deep consciousness, either under pressure or under sedation, or whatever - I do not care to take the moral side of the issue - have a horizon, what you say in the period of digitisation, automation. It will create new forms of poverty and people will have to have a home and if they don't have a house, they will have a caravan and if they don't have a caravan, they will have their car, they will have a mobile, they will have a laptop and they will work from home, so that I don't tell you the tragic economic and social consequences. All these measures, which are taken, are no measures for the sustainability of the insurance system, because in Greece there is the only force that can ensure sustainability in terms of modern, society, and this is the working class and the other poor, popular layers. In their hands, only they can ensure real sustainability. Another sustainability for you and other sustainability for us. From this point of view, these are measures which legitimise all the previous ones and do everything in their power. From this point of view, today to overthrow these measures or, in any case, to limit their consequences, neither a customer movement nor a high tone in this House needs a populist movement which has nothing to do with the GSP that you won at its conference. It will be a movement very different, much more massive, much more dynamic with all forms of struggle. Look, the immature fruits, where they exist, will grow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Skoufa has the floor from SYRIZA, and immediately after Mrs. Gerovasili. Mrs. Skoufa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u177	I hope that the Minister will appear or be monitored, because I would like to ask him some questions, not just rhetoric. Ladies and gentlemen, when we legislate we must have a clear picture of social reality, not an image that we would like to see, but the illusion of social reality as it is. We are talking about the new insurance and pensions and we are wondering whether the Minister has a clear picture of the pensions received by farmers, private sector employees, liberals, workers on a daily basis in the State. Personally when I think about these people's pensions I wonder why they are obviously capable of mathematical alchemy, not to be able to live but to survive. I ask: can pensioners live with EUR 400 and EUR 500 when they have no other resources? In Greece, they seem to be able to do so even if they cannot be forced to do so. How many people are invited to live with 400 euros and 500 euros a month? The majority. There are also fewer people who take 700 euros and 800 euros, while others who take 1000 euros, 1000 euros, and we consider them to be rich. Is it? Do you do something about this social majority in this bill? You don't. The examples that the Minister gives to publicity and he has mentioned to us here, examples of retired people who will see increases concern workers with thirty-three to forty-three years of insurance and a salary of EUR 700. I would like to ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber: do we know of many examples in our surroundings, outside society, working for thirty-three and forty-eight years on a wage of EUR 700? For those people who have not obtained these thirty-three and more years of work - and that is the social majority in our country - you still do nothing or rather do nothing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and the Government, you are cutting them off the permanent thirteenth pension established by SYRIZA under Article 120 of Law 4611/2019. And when we talk about the thirteenth permanent pension, we are talking about a pensioner who takes EUR 500 for 12 months and Christmas or in May it takes another EUR 500. You're removing this. And not only do you abolish it to the pensioner of EUR 500, but also to the person who gets more. You did not accept it, as it appears, from the devastating consequences of the toweling of the social dividend that was not given to those who were given the SYRIZA ruling. Have you discussed, ladies and gentlemen, with social dividend beneficiaries? Have you talked to the shopkeepers on the market to see how much you have missed this social dividend that you have cut? So who favours your legislation? It favours pensioners having a sum of more than EUR 1300 and an ancillary sum. Why? For those who have a sum of principal and subsidiary under 1300 euros again, SYRIZA has taken care of by law. And why do you care for those who have more than 1300 and say there will be no supplementary pension reduction? Because it was S.A.'s decision, which did and went out very well, you do and you do, but you apply it because SYRIZA was the one who pulled the country out of the memorials in 2018, SYRIZA was the one who secured the 37 billion pillow and SYRIZA also secured a financial space so that you could favour these pensioners as well. But what percentage of pensioners are we talking about getting a sum of more than EUR 1300? Are we talking about 10%, 15%, 20% heavy? And all the others who retire under 1300 euros? Luckily, where was SYRIZA. Now let's go to the insurance fund. You're telling us that you're bringing in a fairer insurance system, because you're disconnecting insurance contributions from income. Yes, sir. Is it fairer? Apart from the fact that there were bodies at the committee meeting, for example the GSEW, which said that it should be reconnected, the architecture and logic of Law4387 should be maintained and tax capacity strengthened. So everyone pays for the public insurance system what they can. And so the one who takes 7,000 a year won't be able to pay, can't actually pay the same one who can pay 70,000. Ladies and gentlemen, should we make a simple division, multiplication, addition, removal? We take the man who makes 7,000 euros a year. We're talking about 583 euros a month. To this man, you're telling him to pay a minimum contribution of EUR 220. You tell him to live with 363 euros a month. Can we all live? Can the Minister live with EUR 363? So you make nine out of ten workers even higher, pay increased contributions - the increase in the minimum, I say again, is about 20% - so that one out of ten can be favoured. Is that social justice? Is that a fair insurance policy, a pension system? In conclusion, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister, who is unfortunately absent, to two outstanding points which should be legislated. The first concerns the single pensioners of the EAFRD - CSAY, whom the Ministerial Decision of 2018 incorrectly does not include them and has therefore not found the way in which the contribution paid to their Special Fund will be counted against the pension. The second concerns the Security Body and the Armed Forces in which the 2010 Act separates them into young and old insured in a paradox, but not with the system applicable to all other insured and insured persons. These, ladies and gentlemen. I hope you think very seriously the next time you legislate who is concerned with your legislation and finally take into account the vast social majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u178	Me too, my colleague. Mrs Olga Gerovali has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the insurance bill. However, the debate is taking place on a hard background for the country, while on the islands of the north-eastern Aegean a war has begun, because the government has decided that the citizens of these islands are something like occupation forces in their country. Extreme violence, tear gas, propaganda. Already there are many wounds. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, unscrupulous policy, dangerous policy and I would like to invite you here to stop and withdraw the police forces from the islands. The dialogue must begin. Citizens are right. The islands must be dismantled. You've also promised them. With this agenda you held national elections, you also made self-government elections. You find them in front of you today, but the Greek citizens cannot pay for this revolt of your politics. On the other hand, in order to complete the background, there is also a pre-examination which is evolving at the same time and which, depending on the communication needs, you manage it and of course not to talk about the NOVARTIS scandal, but to investigate who spoke about the NOVARTIS scandal. And yesterday there was an insurance policy in plenary, which is another revolt. As a general rule, the insurance system is very vulnerable. There was no government that hadn't been announced an insurance reform for many decades. That's not exactly what we did. We have been negotiating for these days within memoranda of months hard with the institutions for the sustainability of insurance and at the same time for the non-cutting of pensions and we have done so. The need for the reform of insurance with a focus on sustainability for the present and future generations, fair burden-sharing and strengthening solidarity was a constant demand for Greek society and for SYRIZA was the basis of its policy. I want to remind you that in 2015 the public social security system was in a total collapse. SYRIZA received the insurance after twelve successive horizontal cuts in pensions up to 50%, with unpaid four hundred thousand outstanding pensions and the insurance funds with a deficit of 1,1 billion euro. What did we deliver? SYRIZA managed not only to put a definitive end to the repeated pension cuts, but also to make six hundred twenty thousand pensioners, increases that came for the first time after ten years. Mostly, however, what SYRIZA won was the bet of the long-term viability of the insurance, the sustainability that is currently at stake in this draft law. In addition, the deficit of the insurance funds has now become a surplus. A total of over eight hundred thousand pensions were paid, both major and ancillary, as well as a one-off amount of EUR 5.2 billion. So SYRIZA reduced the unpaid outstanding pensions by 71%. I would like you to tell us how many pensions are pending today, what you have achieved, why you do not give the evidence, and if it is true that the unfinished pensions have already increased by 40% to 50%. In the rhetoric of the bill, then, you talk about increases in monthly wages, possibly 3,500 years of insurance, practically, increases in minimum wages. The truth is that the income for nine out of ten pensioners is falling. Mr. Mitsotakis' announcements were false at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition for the continuation of the tenth pension established by SYRIZA, all for low pensioners and proportional for higher pensions. Even where changes occur, they are accounting for the replacement rates and will be absorbed by the personal difference. Contributions increase by 20% to nine of the ten free and self-employed and an unjust class system is certainly introduced. One with EUR 200,000 annual income will pay the same contribution as the one with an annual income of 5,000. They are therefore affected by this low-pension insurance and professionals and underprivileged and middle-income. However, the Government is not saying anything about communications lies, since it has even reduced the cost of pensions by EUR 200 million in 2020 compared to 2019 and of course with a redistribution against the low pensioners, namely the absolute opposite logic of our own plan. At the same time, the public social security system is consciously being undermined for the benefit of private insurance companies, because high incomes are exempted from contributions, I imagine, to direct private insurance money. In fact, the government is restoring the logic of horizontal cuts and burdens on the public social security system. The Minister's own proportional study shows that the average annual pension is reduced in relation to the current system and will continue to fall until 2040. Instead of supporting workers and thus supporting the sustainability of the insurance system, the government once again announced, but it also votes once again what it votes against is at the expense, it is on the back of the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, my colleague. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of commemoration of the insurance company, the question is whether Greece, as the New Democracy says, is returning if this compression process is consolidated or reversed. The government wants to convince us that there is a reversal, that the health insurance system is again sustainable and that the pensioners of this country will no longer be the rivals of a permanent crisis. It is of great interest to those of us who have been in closed doors, especially with representatives of the International Monetary Fund. Any one of us who has been in such a room I think can confirm a vulnerability towards retired people. Not just against the Greek pensioners. I imagine that they do both in African countries and in Portugal and in other countries. But that's interesting. The corresponding occult is being watched by reading or listening to radio stations that are connected to the Greek oligarchy. There is a coordinated, if you want, effort to highlight the pensioners, the pension system, the insurance system in something like the enemy of the private sector, as an Achilles heel of the Greek social economy. I simply note that because I see a reversal in this climate at least from New Democracy. The question is whether this reversal in the climate is accompanied by an insurance bill which can reverse the ruins of the pensioners' class. Reading the bill, I conclude that there is no such real reversal. The Brutsi Act is an extension of the Katrugalo Law, without wanting to point names. The Memorandum of Understanding of the Insurance System continues. The current law by Mr Brutsi in terms of tactics is smarter than Mr Katrugalos's law in that it increases little - but increases - supplementary pensions, but at the same time reduces the mains in the medium to long term through this very important section of calculating, not in the last five years, but in the whole course of the course of the incomes of an insured person, a retired person. It gives an average of 5-6 euros to more than 2.5 million pensioners in exchange for the permanentisation of the depletion of the people affected by the crisis. Basically it says to them: "We will never let you resurrect for the years of unemployment that you lived in the Memorandum, during the period of debt-government. Even in ten, twenty years, you who are younger today will be able to raise your incomes towards the end of your career, again will not be able to push your main pension to human levels." As for the proportional study, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, show me the assumptions of your model, let me tell you if I believe them. You have emerged in excellent troika students, and especially in the International Monetary Fund, when you are using cases where you are building your proportional study, assumptions that even the most optimistic economist cannot support, assumptions about average growth in the country's GDP of 3% to 3.5% at a time when anyone reading 'FINANCIAL TIMES', 'WALL STREET JOURNAL' understands that these are inappropriate figures. So you are not even conservative, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the growth of GDP will not be what you say it will be. Secondly, even the growth observed relates to revenues. Ask your own people in the trade clubs around the country, in the U.S.A., in the Chambers of Commerce. The turnover of small and medium-sized enterprises increases or decreases? You will see that, wherever you ask, New Democrat crafters will tell you that the cigarettes are falling. At the same time, wages are shrinking. The average wage in the last 12 months has declined, according to your own elements of the "ERGANI", despite the increase in the minimum wage. So, even if GDP is being increased, the share of GDP in terms of incomes of small and medium-sized enterprises is compressing. You have simply extended an insurance system based on the redistribution of misery between misery. In other words, the share that is decreasing will be what will finance the insurance system. You have not made any provision for recapitalisation of the funds that since 2013 have been effectively condemned to the inadequacy of funds. No provision for the recapitalisation of the funds. No provision for new funds, in addition to the contributions that will come out of this shrinking share of GDP, which corresponds to the wages and turnovers of small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, it's like stepping on two different boats and no solid one. On the one hand, you are continuing a model that has been in force for forty years basically in the New Democracy language of radical liberalism in the 1970s, based on national pensions, main pensions and a rewarding piece, but which is not profitable on market criteria, which this whole system is shrinking, as I said, so you fail to stand up to the circumstances that Constantine Karamanlis would like you to stand up against. On the other hand, you are also failing as neoliberal. You have not dared to go to a superannuation system, i.e. to make a public contribution to private capital funds, where you could follow, for example, the Australian model, where all employees are obliged to pay it to a private fund and to the employer of 8%. That's not the sentence of Mera25, but if you wanted to be neoliberal, that's where you'd go. So neither for privatisation did you go to the recapitalisation of a real public system based on the well-known triple funding. Ladies and gentlemen, within this framework of the two failures, you are presenting a bill today, which in two, three, four, five years we will be here again, as we have been discussing in previous years, on an insurance system which only tries and manages to succeed, and tries and manages to succeed, is the expansion of insecurity. It is a ‘insurance’ system that you are currently downloading. We in Mera25 always try - perhaps you've noticed, if not, notice it now - to combine criticism with what you download with specific proposals that could work tomorrow morning. Firstly, the funds are needed to be recapitalised. Secondly, there is a need for new income inputs, in addition to the contributions of small and medium-sized enterprises and employees. What could these movements, recapitalisation and new income inputs have been? We have tabled a proposal and an election: Imagine the ICTP and the superstition merging and giving them - you are a government - a bank licence. Immediately you will have a real development bank, where public property is used to capitalise this growth bank. This development bank, together with the European Investment Bank, could create investment flows to help finance both public enterprises and private enterprises in order to increase the assets, both in the private sector and in the public sector. What does that have to do with insurance? If we were to proceed in this direction, these shares of the new development bank could be given to the insurance funds to replace the capital lost in 2012-2013 with the PSI. If we do not manage to use this country's assets with intelligent financial instruments to recapitalise the insurance funds, we will have failed both in the area of aid to enterprises and in the area of aid to the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u182	Will the bank sell assets?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u183	No, he's not selling them. It uses them as a pledge, it is securitising them. As far as new inputs to insurance funds are concerned, however, which do not result from the shrinking share of the incomes of small and medium-sized enterprises and employees, two proposals here. And you know, we at Mer25 like to copy from the best. One proposal comes from Britain, it is the so-called bank levy, which has been in force for thirty-two years, 0.02% tax on loans entered into by banks, not that they give, but on the funds borrowed by the private sector. It has been in force for thirty-two years in the United Kingdom. That would be a very small amount for the banks, but too great for the income inputs to the insurance funds. Secondly, a 3% tax, perhaps 5% - between 3 and 5% - on the 'FAANGs', 'FACEBOOK', 'AMAZON', 'APPLE', 'NETFLIX', 'GOGLE'. It is a tax which is already in place in over thirty five countries around the world. It already applies in Italy, i.e. in Great Britain, France, Indonesia, Japan. There is absolutely no excuse why the 'AMAZON', which competes with the small and medium-sized ones, but also with the largest shops in that country, from bookshops to clothing shops, does not pay a single tax to the Greek State - not one euro tax to the Greek State -, a profit tax, a business tax, while the Greek companies are remaining under the 95% balance of the tax prepay. We didn't find out as Mera25. It's an international practice. I know very well that the Trump government is raging when he hears this, but we are not here to satisfy and mock the ears of the Trump government. It is a practice that, if you like, would also have the support of important countries in the European Union. Such an income input to the insurance funds would be the least we need to do, so that we do not rely solely on the incomes and contributions of a social class of employees and small and medium-sized enterprises that are at the moment of speaking, despite the fact and perhaps because the incomes of the oligarchy are increasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Fotillas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I really do wonder how much hypocrisy there is among you. So let the Greek people who are watching us what the demands of a few workers were, who last week established all the means of public transport, ignoring millions of our fellow citizens. That is why they strike, that is what they are asking: the abolition of the Katrugalo Law and all the Memorandum Laws and the reintroduction of pensions at the pre-mortem level. Reintroduces the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions, not the ones of SYRIZA, the'monkey', which deplores it. Regularly, thirteenth and fourteenth pensions are required. Preservation of separate insurance funds. What about the cherry on the cake? A pension in sixty for men and fifty-five for women. These are their demands. That's what they were strikein' for. Really, who promised them all this? Definitely not us. And the most vile of the case is that I read statements of support for SYRIZA officials in these strikers' "fair" demands. Mr. Tsipras states, the cousin, "For the insurance, SYRIZA will return to the streets". Mr Balafas declares the previous strike: "Matching response to the bill - looting is tomorrow's totalitarian strike" and other similar statements made by SYRIZA's great-ministers. You're funny and, at the same time, sad. Is that the risk of the new insurance policy? Restoring the situation in 2008? Is that what you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA would do if you won the election? Would you abolish the Katrugalu law? That's what they talk about. Would you take the pension to sixty and fifty-five, Ms. Ahchioglu, if you won the election? You're crying. The risk was to bring about an insurance sustainable, fair, rewarding and at the same time attractive to work. Did Mr. Katrugalu's insurance policy have these characteristics? Not at all, that's the other way around. First, it was not viable or in any case it was not proven viable because they were not accompanied by a proportionate study proving its viability. Secondly, it was not fair because it made a number of cuts that were judged by the supreme courts of the country as unconstitutional. In combination with the four-year tax storm SYRIZA, low and middle incomes were actually affected. Thirdly, it was not rewarding and not attractive to work. It was exactly the opposite. The more a man had worked in his life and the more he had paid, the more unfair he would have been at the end of his working life. As soon as he had the ability to retire, that brought him to do. There was no incentive to stay at work. Let's not be fooled. We're free professionals. Which free trader didn't think he was throwing his money in a barrel without the bottom. And while paying a serious sum every month, at the end of his working life, at the worst, he wouldn't be retired and at best he would get crumbs. These end with this bill. Because this insurance has all the above-mentioned characteristics. Firstly, it is sustainable, not because Brutsis says so, not because Michailidou says so, not because the ministry says so, not because the party says so, or because it says so, a study of dubious origin that came after a holiday and does not accompany the bill, but because they call it formal studies proportionate to the independence of independent authorities. And these studies accompany the bill. And that's for the first time. Secondly, it is fair because it restores a number of injustices created by the Katorugalou law and which, as I said, were considered unconstitutional. It also restores other injustices, such as those against widows, relatives of children of AME and other groups of retired persons. Furthermore, it is fair, because no one - no one - comes out lost, even those who see a slight reduction due to Mr Katrugalos' personal difference - will see a much greater profit than a reduction in duty. And as much as you're trying to convince us that they're lost, you don't convince anyone. You know, when from my left pocket you get 20 euros and on my right you put 100 euros, anyway, at the end, I am 80 euros won. That's the reality. Arithmetics is not an opinion of everyone having their own. The truth is, Mr. Brutsis has achieved something unique, which no insurance bills have worked in the years of the crisis. He managed to get everyone to win. Finally, it is fair that every worker is able to build his own pension, decide what pension he wants and what benefits him according to his income, chooses which class he wishes to join, while maintaining the right to change the class whenever he wishes, to decide what he will pay in accordance with his own possibilities and will, knowing beforehand what he will receive on the day of his retirement. Thirdly, this bill is rewarding. And here I want to stand, ladies and gentlemen. This is the most important reform of the current insurance system, an insurance system that is really attractive to work, an insurance system that is looking forward to gaining the confidence of today's worker, so that he wishes to remain in his work, even when he would have the right to retire, invest in it, to support it. This is achieved, both through the decoupling of insurance contributions from the minimum wage and the income of the worker. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only need your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that the new insurance is not so much the pension insurance, as the job insurance, where a great earner is today. I am pleased to see that the vast majority of the bodies put in committee, apart from any objections - justified or not - have found the concerns which we understand and understand the great picture is that they embraced and actually attributed the positive sign of this bill. And, of course, there are other issues - we have said them - which will be solved with next bills. The Minister made it clear that this bill does not include the needs of all professional groups separately. There's gonna be a next bill, which will do it. In conclusion, I am voting for insurance Brutsi, because for the first time we are given the opportunity to vote for an insurance law, not for us, but for our children. We owe them that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-two students and students and two teachers attending the 6th Katerini High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kefalidou from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, unfortunately, today we are losing another chance to create a fair and sustainable insurance system, an opportunity that we have had in recent years only with Mr.3863/2010, but unfortunately, apart from the PASOK that brought it in and voted for, no one else in this Chamber believed it. Prime Minister's election promises that the Katrugalou law will be abolished and replaced by a new and sustainable insurance system have gone for a walk. Instead, we have a made-up, with too many imperfect remakes of this law. And that's not what we say. That is what the Court of Auditors' plenary is saying. In its opinion, therefore, it states: ‘The rules of Law at issue are adopted in a general context and substantial amendments are made to the Act with specific provisions which were deemed to be unconstitutional’. The axes of our proposal as a Movement of Change have been tabled. We believe that integrated reform also requires necessary options. Firstly, the introduction of stable rules that will create a sense of trust among the citizens. And that is why they have to be implemented for many years to come. Secondly, transition from a pro-innovative system to a mixed three-pillar system, such as most models in central European countries. Thirdly, ensuring economic viability and adequacy in relation to benefits and services. Fourthly, the link between insurance and the country's development model, with demographic policy, and the constant effort to strengthen its funding sources. And fifthly, the development of a dynamic second pillar with the possibility of setting up professional funds. What does the government's insurance bill respond to? How can reforming an insurance system be considered essential and progressive when maintaining the basic philosophy and body of Law4387/2016? I must tell you that this is where we note that the very low rates of supplementation of the previous law remain. We lead to a reduction in pensions, especially for those who have up to thirty years of insurance. Unfortunately, too, it is the vast majority of private sector pensioners. For the next few years, a level of pensions of less than 15% is formed compared to the current 18%. For the young pensioners, whom I hear all the effort is being made, but who is not reflected in the bill, the national pension will be about 60% of the main pension and the payroll will only be 40%. And there is the adjustment - which is self-evident - to the decisions of the Council of State. But logic remains. Put on one pocket and get on the other. The substitution factors may be increased for those with over thirty and thirty-two years of insurance and up to forty years. However, if we want to see this in real figures it is only sixty-five thousand pensioners. For the rest, which is around half a million and are not part of this category, the increase will be offset by the corresponding reduction in their personal differences. What if the decision of the Council of State to increase supplementary pensioners is applied when we talk about pensioners who have lost 50% of their pension, what do you think the government is doing? We call it makeup of the new insurance policy. Let us not discuss that we are living in the country where the obedience of executive power to judgments by itself has become a major achievement. The bill therefore, despite what was written and heard, insists that it be a poorly formulated provision for the proven legal residence in Greece for forty years of the expatriates from Albania and the former Soviet Union in order to grant them the full amount of the national pension. In very simple terms, in order not to be fooled, the bill introduces discrimination for those who have not forty years of residence in Greece. And to them the Prime Minister, if you remember, was committed to abolishing this arrangement. So you say that the person who is taxed and is a Greek citizen will receive the national pension, but the person who is taxed and has no forty years of residence will not receive the same pension. Tell me: In what sense, why are you doing this, and above all why are you insisting on such a mistake? The draft law cancels the prospect of the development of the second pillar of insurance and paves the way for the abolition of subsidiary and one-off branches. Finally, it removes any prospect of paying a third normal pension for all pensioners and does not fully restore the great loss of disability and widow’s pensions. We have a hundred and four articles without the necessary sections. It actually flies into the basket of unusables a unique opportunity for reform. And whatever you say, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I want to tell you that you are once again ignorant. On the contrary, the space of the Change Movement is the only place that has so far brought bold reforms to the issue that neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA have ever supported and I am referring to the EEAS in 2011, the EAS in 1996, the Solidarity Fund, the famous EAFRD, in the CSCE that gave the possibility of a single health crisis and the determination of the degree of disability of all insured persons. Finally, I would remind you that our reform is also the establishment of the National Analogue Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law will lead to a deadlock and new adverse interference in the future. The worst part is that he is not interested and does not guarantee the future of the new generation. It ignores the demographic problem, ignores high unemployment, the current economic crisis conditions in relation to the long-term structural diseases that have led us to the crisis. It moves strictly within the limits of the recent case-law of the Memorandum of Understanding of the Third Memorandum and the unfavourable fiscal context. The new insurance will obviously be tested in practice. Here we will be here to see whether the prediction that the abolition of the creative method of calculating the contributions of the free traders will lead to a reduction in tax evasion and tax evasion or to a replacement with extensive and fair tax evasion and instead of increases in public revenue will also be seen with a fine descent or even a reduction. Here we will be to see whether it will be confirmed that the integration of the EIF into the new electronic EBRD and its digital transformation will have the expected results for the insured and retired or there will be another bat that no one knows what it pays and what it has to pay. Finally, here we will be and measure the time to see the new legislative framework for professional funds and mechanisms for guaranteeing the decent standard of living. But until then, let us not talk about insurance reform. Let's just say we have an insurance micro-chattle. We'll be closer to reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u188	Me too, my colleague. Mr. Thraniotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to return the designations to the colleague who came down a little while ago from the Step, who charged SYRIZA with the workers, as he called them. I would like to inform him that among the workers there was also the president of ADEDY, who did not belong to SYRIZA, belonging to New Democracy. And after all - the workers claim their rights. Ladies and gentlemen, when reading the introduction to the bill, the proposed arrangements help to create a fairer and more effective social security system that restores domestic and transgenic solidarity, contribute to the development of the economy, because it frees the free traders from the suffocating and creative system of calculation. It aligns itself with the requirements, ensures the weak and restores insurance justice to those who contribute many years of work to the insurance system. Reading this introduction one could believe that he can vote for it because that is probably the case. But I wonder if that's the case. I, for example, have worked for over 40 years and I have not charged the insurance system, but I am strengthening it by paying my insurance contributions, the tax, why are you punishing me with the 2% cut in relation to the one who has up to 40 years of insurance? So here's the first and not just inconsistencies or lie, as in your dear expression. But it's not the only one. Those working in the tourism sector, the heavy industry as we usually call it in our country, and I know many people in Lasithi, how many years do they have to work to make 30 years to go through, so that they can benefit from the increase in reciprocity, when they work and are at best insured for only seven months a year? They are the same ones to which you refused, Minister, to extend the collective agreements agreed between the social partners and which covered four hundred thousands of food workers. It restores, you say, endogenous and transgenic solidarity. Really in what way? With the six insurance charges and the first compulsory at EUR 220, do you really believe that someone with high incomes will think of the future pensioner? Will he stand in solidarity? He'll just pay the minimum insurance charge, and if he wants anything more for retirement, he'll go to the private sector, to private insurance or to occupational insurance. The right to additional insurance was granted by Law 4488/2017. So you're not original in this. It liberates - it says - the free trader from the suffocating system of calculation. Let's see which free professionals he's liberating. I shall refer to my own sector, which has been bleeded out by the abolition of the social resource and the haircut of the insurance funds. According to ELSTAT’s data, the dental expenditure of Greek households from 2 billion in 2009 fell to EUR 701 million, EUR 169 per household in 2015. It was reduced by 60%. We're literally talking about a collapse. Something similar happened to the other free professionals. It was, of course, before the abolition of the social resource from the drug, which they bleeding, as did the haircut of the insurance funds. That is why I am tabling an amendment from the Hellenic Dental Federation calling for the recalculation of this prevalence. For the collapse of the incomes of the self-employed, the reduction in pensions, the evacuation of unemployment to 28% are solely responsible for your policies which led the country to bankruptcy. This in no way means that high incomes have not been burdened. They were charged, because someone had to put their backs on. In my position on the 2018 budget, I stressed that after leaving the memoranda and with justice we should alleviate those layers that raised the burden of the crisis, farmers, free traders. Our efforts - as I pointed out - will aim to develop, protect workers' rights, support weak social groups and remove injustices to those who have lifted the burden of the crisis, by reducing tax and insurance rates. We're making our self-criticism. You for the bankruptcy of the country when will you make your self-criticism? Are you going to invoke the recent people's mandate as a swimming pool for the Greek people to forget your responsibilities? For a long time now, the Minister has been staging all tons, mainly from the stage of the hospitable channel which has taken on the propaganda of government policy, that pensions will be increased. Another inconsistencies or a coarsely liar. How do you increase pensions when you abolish the thirteenth pension, saying that it never existed but was election ruptured? I am tabling the relevant law for the record, not for you, but for those who are interested in learning whether it was indeed a permanent pension or an election rupture. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The result is that you deprive pensioners of an important income for them. How are pension expenditure increased in the 2020 budget by EUR 200 million? How do pensions increase when the proportional study provides for reductions by 2040? Are you going to reduce unemployment and how? How about the 4% growth that you staged in the election campaign? You say that the contributions of the free professionals will be reduced. The majority of the insured, 90%, will see an increase in their contributions from 80 to 420 euros and a wage from 650 to 12 000 euros. The conclusion: With the new insurance bill, the large majority will see increases. Except they won't be pensions, but they're insurance contributions. It redistributes income to the detriment of many, in favour of a few, and that is your choice, it is your core policy. The government of SYRIZA, within a suffocating financial framework, went ahead with the creation of the Single Social Security Agency, maintained the public redistributive character and most importantly kept society up, protecting the large social majority against neoliberal policies and perceptions of logic, "the poor, the poorer and the richer, the richer". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Madam President. The fighters of the democracy and the claim of 2016-2017 were today, according to Mr. Fotila, under-represented workers. You're not telling us well! First you insult the labour movement, any labour movement there is today. Minister, you spoke yesterday about funny opposition. You said three times about SYRIZA's lies. I'm about to tell you ten of your own lies. And it'll be recently, because there's a lot more before. Minister, we have asked you four questions about the OEC loans, and you are playing crowns - letters from the homes of some people. You don't pay attention. Is there a ready-made legislative intervention, an Achtsioglou regulation, and you do not put a signature on it, and will you solve the insurance? You said yesterday about farmers and non-professional pensioners. Will you accept the amendment we have tabled, relieve them of the income insurance contributions? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you deceived the Greek people and won the elections. This does not mean that this fraud will remain unpunished and unpunished. You would negotiate lower surpluses, dominance would dominate, the first fifty days would bring an investment storm and the Bulldozers would work in Greek in August. Tsipras, you said, called the refugees and Mitsotakis would press the button to stop the refugee flows. You see what happens today. You have exposed the country irreparably. The Embassy Agreement was treacherous and you are honouring it today. You'd bring 4% growth. You'd fix distortions in sport, and you've made it a Midian land. Mr Mitsotakis would create three hundred thousand new jobs well paid and we have thousands of redundancies. You'd give pension increases and abolish the Katorugalou law. You would also reduce unemployment and see the latest details of ELSTAT. What happened to all this? Nothing. Empty letter. I will not say, of course, that it is a great deal of capital that you have again abolished - the same Minister at another time - every concept of law. Ten 'will', which, as I said before, remained 'will' and at the same time highlight your lies and political deception, which ultimately emerges to be in your DNA. You triumph today that you have brought a proportionate study for the first time for the insurance. Me, Mr. Minister, your lies no longer bother me, because a proportionate study existed in the Katorugalou Law, and yesterday Mr. Loverdos told you here that there was a proportionate study in his law. Once again you've been caught with the "stick on the back". What bothers me, however, and which makes you dangerous, is that you triumph for a proportionate study which makes new pension cuts. We heard you intercepted yesterday with the Change Movement about who had or did not have proportionate studies on insurance. You forget, of course, that you colluded together and guarded 4.5 billion dollars from the pensioners' pockets. And you have the courage today to tell us that "the new insurance policy has no further reductions, we will not make any reductions". Minister, I heard you say yesterday that you honoured what you found from yesterday, obviously in your previous term of office in 2012. But you have not clarified what you have done. Because you said yesterday that everything has their limits, let me remind you what you have done. Do you consider a price that has demolished the pensioners between 2010 and 2014? I'll tell you all about it. With L.3845/2010 you have cut the allowances and gifts together. By Law 4002/2011 you imposed a special contribution from 6% to 10% of pensioners. With Law 3986/2011, even with retroactive application, you imposed a special solidarity levy on pensioners. By Law 4002/2011 you imposed new reductions in supplementary pensions. With Law 4024/2011 you made cuts in the main pensions. By law - and here we come to you - you have imposed 12% new reductions on subsidiary companies. With Law 4093/2012, you have made new reductions in both major and ancillary terms and abolished gifts and allowances to subsidiary companies. You were, Minister, again Minister, from 21-6/2012 to 27-1-2015, if I'm not mistaken. So I ask a question, Minister, and if you wish, you answer me. Did you perform - let me term - the unemployed of the country? Did you reduce the unemployment benefit to 50%? And are you telling us about social policy that you are going to implement today? You had made your flag in the election, as you said, the law of Katrugalo. The Change Movement believed you and said the same. The problem, Minister, is not that you have not abolished the law, but that even now you are finding the way to widen the inequality of the insurance system at the expense of the social majority. The communal tricks, Mr. Brutsi, will have generalised increases not enough. The cost of pensions in the 2020 budget is 200 million less than was spent in 2019. So the money's getting short of it. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are even abolishing the thirteenth pension - all my fellow Members have said - which was introduced as a permanent measure by SYRIZA. Minister, sit on a panel with Mr. Ear so you can make an offer. You're good at math. 970,000 from the third pension, 550,000, 000 from the social dividend minus 200,000, 000 from the pension expenditure missing from the budget, to see how much money you will finally get once again from the low-wage and low-wage pensioners. This, Mr Brutsi, is not a reduction, it is a theft. And you're talking about increases. A little shame wouldn't hurt. In the case of contributions, 90% of the free professions account for about 20% of the contributions. So the government chooses to repeat the same mistakes, the same policies of the past. Do you want me to remind you? Negative funds. Insurance funds broken down, with thousands of undeclared cases of insured persons with AMKA. Four hundred thousand unpaid pensions. With a small, but bloody surplus in 2013, resulting from pension cuts, which were, Minister, 4.5 billion cuts. 4.5 billion cuts! SYRIZA tried as far as it could underneath the rift of institutions then to give justice to those who lifted the burden on their backs during the years of the economic crisis. I believe that with your policies, Minister, you remain dangerous to society and all the citizens of that country. You remain committed to the past, to the strategy of choosing to burden the many for the benefit of the least, without prejudice to the society of solidarity, democracy, equal rights and equal opportunities. Your masks fell too early. Since I do not want to abuse any more time, I would like to tell you that it is unfair once again to condemn a people who have suffered everything on your own governance. Unfortunately, Minister, very early you have received a final divorce, not only with the truth, but with the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will now give the floor to Mr Cretan from New Democracy and then to Mr Rousopoulos, and immediately thereafter to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heita. Mr. Cretan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u193	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I personally like to see the facts from the point of view of the doctor. And through this perspective, the insurance system with the code name "Katrugalou", which will be the past tomorrow, was a host, a host, who transferred the dissolution virus of the workers' income, since it linked income to the contribution, the inaction virus of the pensioners, who were divided into pensioners before and after the insurance epidemic. Another approach was for retired people before and another treatment for retired people after the application of the Katrugalos law. What was that, ladies and gentlemen? Was it segregation? Was that a ranking? Was it a punishment? It did, however, create social inequality. We had retired privileged and unprivate. So now we'reactive neoliberal capitalists', in your opinion, are coming to impose social justice. We are imposing equal treatment of all pensioners, separate only from their pension years, in terms of their working life on which they have been entitled to a pension. With this bill, we treat the insurance system and so we stop the spread of the epidemic. And I am absolutely satisfied with the way he is treated, as the new insurance bill was checked with all the necessary tools, so that the Greek economy and the state can fully meet its obligations towards the citizens. This also serves the proportional study, which confirms the system's viability by 2070, but also respects the national commitments that our country has, as pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP must be converged after 2030 with the European countries' average. The financing of the insurance system will be permanent with 0.5% of GDP. Its cost has been analysed and approved by the General Accounting Office of the State and by the institutions. Finally, for the first time in the insurance bill, a special study of the Athens University of Economics on the adequacy of pensions is included. We are therefore different, ladies and gentlemen, not in terms of acidity or excellence, which is an allergy term, but in terms of method, knowledge and morality. We use cognitive tools to calculate sustainability and also political openness to communicate change. The reformist change in the insurance bill that we bring to the House to vote is characterised by social justice and the possibility of free choice, the possibility of flexibility, which is at the heart of our own ideology for the economy and society that we want. So the fundamental element of the new insurance policy is the disconnection of income contributions, a link which effectively dismantled the free professions, but also the employees. The state became a major shareholder in civil individual operations. This ends tomorrow. With disconnection we give the insured person a choice to structure his own pension, we give him the flexibility in selecting the insurance grade. I am bringing our farmers, our farmers and our fishermen as an example. Our primary sector, particularly important for my region, Laconia, where thousands of my fellow citizens are employed, is treated with sensitivity through a favourable and protective framework of reduced insurance contributions. I am briefly saying that farmers' contributions to 2020 in the first category will be EUR 121, 2021 to EUR 123, as will 2022 to EUR 123. Another important aspect of this bill is equal treatment for all pensioners and the incentive to re-entry into the production process. Those who are retired in the public or private sectors now want to work, can do so and receive 70% of their pension. At the same time, they will pay insurance contributions and taxes. This is also the case with those who are retired who want to work in the narrow public sector, except that they must have completed the 60th year of their age, and that is where they will be able to receive 70% of their pension. Otherwise the retention of their pension will be at 100%. Here, perhaps, we should study in the next phase a step-by-step pension return between fifty-two and sixty-two, if our financial framework allows us to do so, Minister. Finally, and very important to my fellow farmers, the new insurance bill will be able to work and receive 100% of their pension. Overall, the bill puts on tracks in the insurance system, as they distinguish it, social justice, the possibility of a free choice of insurance and the flexibility that lies at the heart of our own ideology. The new insurance, the Brutsi Act gives optimism and heals the patient, that is, the previous insurance system, which dissolves pensions and eliminates workers' incomes. We move on, gentlemen, with optimism in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u194	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty students and students and five educational attendants from the primary school of Aquarius Florinas and the primary school of Permas Florinas School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr Rusopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, some twenty years ago, at the beginning of 2000, accompanying, as a spokesman for the opposition, the then leader of the opposition officer and later Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, on a journey to Austria, we had a meeting with Chancellor Sisell. You all remember that government. It doesn't matter how it formed. It had been very criticised by all European countries for participation of the extreme right in the government, etc. I am not concerned about this and that is not what I want to highlight. That government had begun to implement an insurance reform by changing too much of the existing things in Austria. You'll soon understand why I'm using this example. He told us the characteristic that the Vienna Square twice was filled by the Austrians. One by gladly protesting in 1945 after the release - who does not remember Hitler's Anschluss - and the second by protesting against insurance by the Austrians. Amongst other things, the joke that was circulating until then in Austria was that they were asking a young child what she wanted to happen when she grew up and that was what she was answering a pensioner. In Austria, too, there were things happening in other European countries about insurance, which in today's day seem very distant and very unpleasant, in the sense that the insurance system is a burning issue, they are chestnuts on fire. Someone has to take these chestnuts out of the fire, and someone has to take responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very brief historical retrogression, who does not remember that in the 1990s it was the Mitsotakis government, the late Sioufas, Souflias, Manos, those people - Bampis Papademitriou mentioned earlier - who started and made radical changes in insurance. Who does not remember that and then there were too many on the streets who reacted with this insurance. But who is no longer aware that that security policy of Mitsotakis is the one that has set the chances of living for many years, until a new study later in the mid-1990s, we all remember Professor Sprao and the criticisms he has taken on a new insurance system, but then Prime Minister Simitis, twice, even once in the mid-1990s, but also one in 2001, with his Minister, Mr Giannitsi, has not dared to go ahead. The government of Karamanlis was the next to change the insurance policy and the current government of Mr.Mitsotakis is the government that also changes the insurance policy. You will tell me, the Katorugalo insurance and, of course, the decision of the Council of State has since taken us, but also our political will to change this insurance, which has caused everything that those honourable Members who preceded the Stepma have described in a clear way. There have been new and older ideas in the Chamber earlier. Surely the Marxist theory, which, as Mrs Papariga has always taught us, speaks of goodwill. This goodwill, as one would define it, at any rate on the company's wages or profits, has been a big question of confrontation between trade unions and employers, between the political forces. These older ideas have some value. They have newer ideas, such as the one heard by the head of Mera25 on the taxation of companies that are now the colossal of globalisation. However, what does not concern us in this debate is these tax ideas. It could be indirectly concerned, if that is to say that a country's incomes are increased, but I believe, in order to respond to this issue from my perspective, it is a matter which must primarily concern the European Union as a whole and not just one country, however small it is or as large as it is. The Minister responsible, Mr Brutsis, has brought in an insurance policy which, with great vigour, changes a number of things. It differentiates what the Katrugalo insurer, which failed as I said before and was judged by the Council of State and also by the workers themselves. Mr Brutsis, therefore, has brought an insurance policy which states - and he himself - but also the proportionate study that comes with it for the first time - that it has sustainability for a number of decades. Even if it does not reach 2070, as the proportional study predicts, we should note that these changes, in any case, create a sense, create certainty, create greater security, based on market rules, - the Prime Minister said as soon as the day before yesterday that he will follow yet another change involving our election commitments, because we have not been sent to any of our election commitments yet - that this insurance gives the possibility for those who work and feel confident that they will receive a pension, but also feel confident that they will receive the pension that they receive. Each of us, remembering his working life, will certainly find some elements that, in the course of the years - not in the insurance Brutsi, which has not yet been implemented, but in the course of the years - may make him feel so happy, because I am sure that all of us, if we discuss privately, will think and exchange views and information about how much we have worked, how much money each of us has paid for contributions and whether this money will be taken or whether we have to spend the century to get to some kind of reward pension. However, ladies and gentlemen, things in insurance reflect today's reality with a very great deal of approach, with proportionate studies on the reality of tomorrow and in any case reflect a market mobility. It's not a static bill, insurance. The predictions are certainly for a number of decades, and I trust the proportionate study, but market mobility and mobility in a society - the Greek society is losing people, that is, in the same population in 2070 as we are today - are reflected by some error rates or not. In general terms, I would like to point out to my SYRIZA colleagues that it was also argued by your rapporteur that many regulations were your own. You're just asking yourself: if it were your arrangements, we'd expect to see which of them you will vote for, of what Yannis Vrutsis brings again, since what you said is true. We do not deny reality as hard as it is, and we know that fine words, great words in a Europe that sadly implied people like Orban, populists and mediators, only fit truths. These truths came the Mitsotakis government today to confirm with its policy. Messianism, populism, seriously harms democracy, whether we talk about insurance or about the economy, or about refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u196	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Heitas, has the floor and immediately after the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has so far been heard - I count - about 150 colleagues with the rapporteurs, together with ministers. You will allow me, as a parliamentary representative of the party today, to make a reference, Minister, since you represent the Greek Government, the Government of New Democracy, following what the President of the Greek solution today, Kyriakos Velopoulos, said. I will make an appeal to you, Minister. Please! Please! We can't close our eyes, we can't turn our backs on everything that's going on outside the Chamber. Because today, yesterday and yesterday, unfortunately, Greece is crying, Greece is suffering on our islands, Minister. And because you're an islander too - if I'm not mistaken - put an end to it, Minister. Please. We urge you to put an end to this. Talk to the government officials and put an end to this. I don't know if you've noticed, if you've been informed, because we're in here many times - what's going on today. They're slaughtering each other! I was seeing some time ago that Greek citizens took a shower - as I tell you exactly - at the hotels where the people of MAT rest, snatched them and kicked them out! That's what happened a while ago. Greeks are being slaughtered among themselves. I have an information - without jeopardizing, I haven't confirmed it yet - that a kid of 17 years of trauma is very heavy. There is also a video - which we still hold - that has it under fifteen and hit him. He's 17 years old! We have too many complaints. Minister, I really am telling you as a party we have received too many complaints from people, Hiroids, islanders with names. I chose today to devote a portion of my time to these people. The Diamant from Chios, Minister: "They were sent to kill us. The islands emit SOS. And Greece knows nothing. They do not show the reality of the channels.' Nikos from Mytilini: “Before they arrived in Lesvos and other MATs with C130! The channels show no sign of what we live on the island. The violence we live in our own place is incredible. That's not a junta. We are fighting our own state." [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Mrs. Helen from Mytilini: “Help our Mytilini. You can't imagine what's going on with the cheeks. They broke cars, heads, legs of women, chests of people. I'm a mother and four children." These are messages that have come to our party, the Greek Solution and our MPs. Some of them I took and picked to carry them. We can't turn our backs. We can't care about all of this. This is the result of the non-management of the New Democracy, the Government. We can't take no care of that. The insurance is good, and it's very serious, but the developments are running. The facts go beyond us. We will mourn victims! I don't want to be a master of evil. It's incredible, though, both your ice cream and your indifference. Stop it. Remove the police forces and open a dialogue with the world. It's amazing what's going on. National guards handed their guns over to protest. Kyriakos Velopoulos said, the President of Greek Solution this morning. I bring it to you in writing, photograph. The tear gas they fly, Minister, is 1981. What we're living is awesome. It's 1981. So we have a New Democracy that follows SYRIZA and flies tobacco and tear gas in 1981, bought at Andreas Papandreou! Mr. Loverdo, our market is here. That's what they fly to the Chiots, the islanders. It's gone. I put it in the Minutes for you to know what's going on. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Heitas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Where are you? Today, the regional director of North Aegean, Mr. Moutzouris, appeared on the radio of Thessaloniki. I'm talking to you with facts. The journalist asks him: "Did Mr. Metostakis contact you?" 'No', he's answering. Journalist: "Have Mr Tsipras contacted you?" "No," he says. Journalist: "No captain contacted you?" "Mr. Velopoulos has contacted," he says. He's the only one who contacted. No one else. And because the subject is a little sensitive and weird, SYRIZA is coming now - who has sent his own staff down - and is trying to politically take advantage of the issue and says about decongestion of islands. He says to leave the islands and go to the mainland. In other words, we should get rid of the islands, take them to the mainland, stop them from sending them back to Turkey at some point - because this is stopped automatically - and others will be in. Erdogan's gonna send in. He's gonna open the string. There's gonna be others coming in. And we'll send them to the mainland. This job is going to be done. No, this isn't a job. And to stop this story - Velopoulos has told you thirty times, from the Step of the House, from the televisions, from the broadcasts, from all the executives of the Greek solution - four things need. Let's get this over with. Serious problems are solved with serious solutions, dangerous and difficult. It's not easy to solve this problem, but you have to do it. It is four things: Uninhabited islands, closure of NGOs, deportations of illegal immigrants and closure of borders. You don't understand. And we live in a time, a strange decade - I was thinking about it this morning - beyond the crisis. We had George Papandreou who brought us the memorials, the IMF, brought sorrow to the Greek people. We then went to Samaras - Venizelos, we had ENPIA, new methods and new serotypes for the world. We went to Tsipras. He brought us another memorial unnecessarily, brought us the Prespes, the Eye, the Mandra. And we arrived ten years later, and instead of saying that the situation will be a little small, the Greek is faced with a ganger indeed called illegal immigration. An illegal immigrant costs every day only 5.80 euros. A Greek student eats at his dorm and costs 3 euros in the Greek state. A Greek soldier for his feeding costs 1,80 euros. These are elements which the Greeks and Greeks must listen to. We're giving them spitarones. They're running photos. You see what's going on with the airbnb. You see what they supposedly rent for minors, seventeen, eighteen and twenty-year-olds from Iraq and Afghanistan without identities, with busted documents. It's 1,500 euros the rent. He says it underneath and you're creeping. And these when our children, our students, give us 400 to 450 euros for a studio in the center of Thessaloniki to live. The Greek families are agonizing. And I'm leaving this, Mr. Brutsi, and I'm going a little bit to Greek-Turkish. But it's a continuation of what we're living for. And this effort to humiliate the Greek. You have evacuated your blue rabbits on TVs and conferences - our ELIAMEPs have eaten! - and they're doing a job for Greek-Turkish. They're turning the ground for what's coming. It's really a wonder. Does they put them in Greek government and talk or anything from Turkey? I mean, imagine it, make it a bit of a picture, the Turks take out their own people to say: "Turkey cannot want everything its own, should give Greece something." So I'm sorry, that makes sense? Something "Russian" etc. They say: "We cannot have everything on our side. We should also give Turkey something." What does man say? Who is this gentleman who dares to say such things? Who's this gentleman? I hear he was an adviser to the President-in-Office - so I learned - but he's also a Prime Minister's advisor today. Mr. Rosakis, who comes out and says that! And if Mr. Rosakis is Mr. Rosakis - who does his job well, sets up ground, puts the microbe in his work - what to say about large executives as well. When I hear Mrs Bakoyannis say yes to ELIAMEP. Oh, please very much, that's where safe conclusions have been drawn: 'Yes to The Hague'. 'Yes to The Hague' and by Mr Papandreou? What are we living for? Is all of them in favour of Greece, the Rozakis and the rest of the rabbits coming out and giving the food slowly so that people can swallow it? "What if we lose Kastelorizo? Slowly.’ We're going to something else that's very important. February ends, because we have said that we will tell people truths and we must look into him in the eye. You know very well, because today's background is an economic one, because we are talking about pensions, but in very few days' time we will be calling in this Chamber to comment, because we will be able to do nothing else if you do not now, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the tsunami coming from May 1st with the auctions. Because there's a tsunami coming. We'll see pictures of Spain. Police officers and MATs hug people out of their homes. People will lose their homes. You now take them with auctions and homes. The next move - the Greek Solution and Velopoulos have been telling you for months now, they tell you today - will be to lose the houses of the Greeks. They're waiting for the carts, NGO crows to grab them. They already have signed contracts. See you now. We'll live them in front of us. And what did we say? Copy America's model. That's what the Greek Solution program says. Copy the American program for red loans to save the houses of the Greeks. Adapt them to our own - of course - data, let us save the houses of the Greeks. We'll live dramas. I'm bumping the alarm. You'll see something else in front of you in a few days. Here we are, and we'll see you again, because the world is up. I say it today, we call it Greek Solution today, publicly, we have said so many times, we have asked too many questions. In Skouries, Halkidiki has risen. Listen, we're in favour of investment too. We are not against investment, but in a concrete way, with respect for the environment. There's no swimming pool left standing. They've burned everything there. There are reports of diseases in the world. There's nothing left. They're talking about huge environmental impacts. There's a huge concern. Halkidiki on the spot there reminds me of a skull spot. You will find it before you in a very short time. The world's in the bars. Yes to mining, but with respect to the environment, not everything on the altar of money. You'll find it in front of you. We're telling you. We're going to one more thing, because I have to go to the theater of irrationality, ladies and gentlemen. You are all aware, of course, that I am referring to 'NOVARTIS'. The witnesses - now listen - have put before the prosecutor in the face, i.e. as I am now went and testified. In the pre-examination committee, however, which is a public prosecutor, the pre-examination committee of the House is a public prosecutor - they went with hoods. In other words, the prosecutor face to face in front of the public prosecutors in the public prosecutors with hoods and a hooded voice, with walls and "I wear pants" to say women and to say New Democracy's colleague "I wear skirts". Such things, a communication show to deal with the channels, while outside Greece is beaten and beaten between her. We've told the masks to fall from the beginning. From the beginning, the masks will come out. All in the light. To rest - that's what the Greek Solution says - and the witnesses and the scandal, to see where they went and the millions of euros. But you've been eating for so long and you've been piling up in the canals, in the eightlets, and we don't know if it's a scandal or a construction or both. For the people to understand, we have a New Democracy government, as I said before, with SYRIZA practices and tactics. Unfortunately, you're in a row I referred to. I wanted to say more, for very serious and football, etc. I don't have time. I'll see you at next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u198	And we thank Mr. Heta. Parliamentary spokesman from SYRIZA, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will not repeat all of yesterday's arguments. Your Minister spoke at noon. No involvement with the arguments we put forward. It was like listening to his first speech at the first committee. We've made the arguments. After you degrade this Chamber without any counter-problems, as Mrs Fotioux said, Mrs Ahtsoglou and many of our Members have said, I cannot do anything anymore. After the crisis, Western societies have many challenges. Three challenges are very important in relation to this bill: demographic, climate change and pensions. The first question is how a society responds to these challenges. There I think there is a very big difference between the neoliberal answer and the left-hand answer, a difference that remains and remains. What do I mean? These challenges and the answers are the question of the whole society to decide democratically, to decide democratically on something that is now affecting them and in the future, or are the challenges, and so the answers will come back to millions of individual decisions on the market? So my decision to consume more or save me, my decision to work longer or to take more time. We take responsibility as a democratic society for how we want to deal with it or leave it on the market, and in the end we will see what happens? Let me give you an example. Consider, Mrs Michaelidou, Greece after thirty years, where productivity has doubled. This society can have two extreme solutions. One is to consume double goods - once productivity has doubled - the other is to consume the same goods, but to get all the increase in productivity in more time. The question is this: can we make a decision to discuss what we want in this regard? What the chapter wants will be known. Apart from tourism and other sectors, capital will want us to consume more goods. It doesn't make money by sitting here and not working and not consume any more goods. Can we decide if we need more time? And if we do that, will it affect consumers and production standards that will help us in climate change? And if we have more free time, this will help us rethink how much money the public must give as a percentage of the pensions GDP? Because in all the discussions with the IMF - I imagine your own ministers before us with the IMF - there was a great deal of pressure to reduce public spending on the insurance system, without ever discussing whether we as a society want more time and want to finance the insurance system. If we have more time or if we make the choice for more free time, do we have to rethink the thirty-five hours of work for all of us? Everyone working, but everyone working less, why can we do it with the same income, as productivity increases? Here I come to a link between the labour market and pensions, which our rapporteur and other speakers have again placed at the heart of our concern. We have a precarious labour market and a change in the working model. We have part-time work, we have insecurity, we have the alternating shift of workers between low yields and no return. These are particularly problems for women, Mr Michailidou. We have a racial pension system precisely because this inequality is in the labour market. When Mrs Agathopoulos tried to explain this to your Minister, she showed an indifference to this matter. I hope that you will not be interested, at least have a flexible interest in these things. But this labour market creates a huge problem for insurance. In this insurance, in this country where all this has been done, and we have these working relationships now you are adding the privatisation of the insurance system, cutting off the connection between income and contributions and allowing the rich to leave the system. So here we have two things. We have the principle of redistribution and the principle of the universality of the insurance system. Because there are nobelians all of them, Stigclitz, Akerlov, who are known in Greece for other things, who explained why the insurance system must be universal. Because if it's not, what we're talking about in economics, unfavourable choice. In other words, if it is not universal, if not everyone offers, you choose those people who need pensions more and those who have the least chance of paying for these pensions. Therefore, not only is it a big mistake to cut the connection between income and contributions because it destroys this principle of redistribution but it is a great mistake about the viability of the system. Because a system from which the rich can come out means that in the end we will only have a poor system for the poor. That is why we are concerned about the sustainability and the potential of this insurance system that you are proposing. These choices I'm telling you, we can't leave them on the markets. It's a matter of political decisions. We cannot leave it to the rest of millions of individual preferences. Many things are a matter of political preferences, but in these great challenges we cannot. And we can't for another reason. Because of the externality I've explained to you. How the labour market is linked to the insurance system. That is why we in SYRIZA are preparing a programme that you will see at our conference where work is at the heart of our development policy. A programme where climate change is based on tackling inequalities, because no one, no community, no region can leave it behind if it is to deal with climate change. And these communities and these people and these regions must have an active involvement in tackling climate change. In this program you will see an insurance system that the principle of sustainability, universality and redistribution is central. And so will the cycle with the labour market, as we imagine. In our view, this tripartite, based on deciding as a society to face up to the major challenges politically, gives us space for wider social and political debates, wider social and political consensus, wider social and political actions and, at the end of programming convergences. I conclude, Mr President, with what Oscar Wilde said. I think so. I'm not sure. Oscar Wilde had said America is the only country to pass through barbarity in the decline without the intermediate stage of civilization. You are the only political force in this country that passed from the clientele system to neoliberalism without the stage of social justice, the redistribution. And that is what political forces need to be overthrown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u200	In order to proceed with the list, two Members will speak, and then I will give the floor to Mrs Zoe Rapti, a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. He's asked for him and he'll have him. Please come to Stepma Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandos from New Democracy and the beautiful Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an insurance system is one of the main pillars of a favoured state, a favoured state. And it really has nothing to do with SYRIZA's position with the other colleagues from SYRIZA. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman who just came down from Stepma made an ideological position, unlike other SYRIZA colleagues who have worn the racing cloak trying to make us forget that it was the longest-lived Memorandum Government and trying to make us forget the achievements that they had around the insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen, your work is to cut the EVS. Your government's work. Your work is the towel that existed in the supplementary pensions, by the law of Katrugalou. Yours is the Katorugalou law where immediately after Mr. Tsipras reshaped and left the Ministry of Labour. His greatest pieces came out unconstitutional. Your work is the huge delays that exist with people who have made three and four years to get their pension. We have been inherited close to the one million outstanding insurance cases which, unfortunately, we have not achieved at the rate required to implement and carry out. In fact, in all this racing cressette that has caught you and the crocodile tears that you are tearing against pensioners, I would like the next colleague from the SYRIZA parliamentary group to tell us which pensioner is even half-euro. To someone who now gets his pension. To which pensioner, by what social group is even half-euro cut with the insurance bill that the government currently submits? Because it is the first insurance bill after more than ten years that has no further cuts in pensioners. This is a reality, ladies and gentlemen. And I understand all that fight you're doing to disorientate public opinion because this bill of law really is, since it applies all the decisions of justice and reformist and innovative is because it brings in areas around the insurance system. But it also has social status with all these social provisions it brings. But the most important thing for my generation and for the smaller ones, for the generation of forty-seven and the smaller ones, is that it is trying to inspire us the necessary security that we must feel around the insurance system that exists in our country. Because we're all witnesses that new generations are questioning if they ever retire. Both proportionate studies submitted by the Minister responsible - we are still waiting for the proportionate studies of the Katrugalo Law - to show the situation in which the economy we all believe is currently in, and we see that it will go better, ensure the sustainability of the insurance system for the next 50 years. And that is very important, ladies and gentlemen. To re-start the citizen trusting the structures and mechanisms of his state. And it is very important that we stop a particular civil society, which exists between generations, because at some point it should stop, as the insurance system is structured on the concept of recompense. If you want, one of the main priorities that this bill sets out is that, since we increase the replacement rates. To those who have over thirty years of work, to those who are insured for more than thirty years and to those who are thirty-five years, we increase them by 4%, in relation to the Katrugalos Act, and those who are forty years insured in a 7%, compared to the previous law, the Katrugalos Act. But that's not all. We are restoring the enormous injustice that has existed in relation to supplementary pensions, this extreme towel that has been done in supplementary pensions. But we're bringing something else to do with the self-employed, scientists and freelance professionals. We give them six categories, so that they can freely, depending on the remuneration they want to have in relation to their pensions, choose the contributions they will pay for the insurance system. Doesn't that make sense? Isn't it democratic? Isn't it self-evident? Isn't an insurance system structured on it? It was a mistake not only what you brought, which was not insurance, but it was a tax bill - that we told you at the time - and the previous system that prevailed and that was a mistake. Depending on the years, the older you were the bigger you paid, in a country that was facing such a serious crisis. So this bill comes and gives everyone the right to decide on the contributions they will make so that they will have the equivalent pension at the end of their working life. Of course, we also give young people a priority, since for five years they will pay very low insurance contributions and not owe them interest, as was the case with the previous law, Mr Katrugalos's law. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, but this solution which we are giving to double contributions is also very important to all those who had a job relationship, and at the same time had another activity, the well-known blocks. It is very important, because we are also finishing with this injustice, what has to do with double contributions. I can hear you say 'blue grandparents'. Do you think all tenants are voting for the New Democracy? Do you think all farmers vote for New Democracy? Do you not understand and do you not see that what we are going through in this bill can give a solution to what has to do with the agricultural sector, beyond the lower contributions we have to make to farmers? Do you not understand and do not understand that in this country of crisis it is very important to give the opportunity, apart from the fact that we are fighting black work, to enable people to continue and work and to pay insurance contributions and to participate in the insurance system? All of these are "blue grandparents" and "blue grandmothers"? Is that what you are dealing with on this matter? In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are simplifying procedures and reducing the minimum conditions for successive insured persons. Because, as you can see, in the years of the crisis, unfortunately there have been people who have lost their jobs and changed their professional direction, and all of them have suffered a great deal, so that they can obtain the right to retire. And that is very important. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are putting an end to this shame which existed at the age criteria regarding the widow's pensions and we are creating a single system for everyone, while simplifying all these procedures that are needed. Working time is also reduced for employees and not for the acquisition of insurance capacity and for the possibility of obtaining health care. Finally, we are creating an address on issues for people with disabilities, so that we can show our sensitivity and the anthropocentric nature that we have to deal with people who are facing serious problems and need the state to be more direct to justice. We are reducing insurance contributions in relation to employees, which can help the economy, and we are doing another innovation, another reform: we are creating e-ECA. We can finally believe that we will stop having this shame and this suffering, hundreds of thousands of people who are entitled to take their pensions into trouble for two, three and four years and move as a disgrace, in order to claim and take self-evidently, what is the state's obligation to give them. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that a great opportunity has been given here to discuss the present and, above all, the future of working people, young people and the insurance system. And I told you that Mr. Chakalotos, when he came down from this Step, made an ideological position that I respect. But we through this bill show the great difference we have. We are with the world of work, we believe in the capacity of the country's productive potential, we try to keep them at work, we need to be able to increase the wealth of this country and we can do it with the Greek workers, we believe in the rewardability of an insurance system, while you believe in a subsidy policy. This is the big difference we have. This great difference, however, was clarified by the Greek people in the July elections. We therefore have to be faithful to what we committed ourselves to the Greek people and go forward and try to create these conditions that are appropriate and necessary to move forward. What I wish you would like for you to do is follow the same path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, too. Let's go to Thrace and beautiful Rhodope, with Mr. Dimitrios Haritou from SYRIZA. If you would like, answer Mr Katsafados who asked you a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that today we are discussing insurance in this way is mainly due to the fact that the previous government has stabilised and put the economy back on track and, above all, because you have put the insurance system on the track, obviously with problems, but with a view to a large majority of workers and retired people and certified for their viability by 2070. You, gentlemen of the government, what exactly do you do with the arrangements you have brought? Where do you drive it with the destabilization policies of work, which is the main donor of insurance? What do you reserve him with the 200 million cuts in this year's budget, but also with the lack of any provision for his funding? I'll tell you where you're driving it, gentlemen. You derail it from the rails we have put it, you deceive and undermine the public social security system, by fiercely closing the eye on private insurance companies. Intervening surgically, I would say, to serve the interests of the few at the expense of the many pensioners and to push the public insurance system to the private companies. To alleviate from the contributions of one of the ten insured persons, who accidentally has the largest income, do you know what you are doing? You are burdening the remaining nine, who again randomly have the lowest incomes, increasing their contributions by 20%. That is, from EUR 185 per month to EUR 220 per month. This one of the ten was meant by the Prime Minister when he triumphed and promised to the PPC that he would reduce Greek insurance contributions? What was he triumphing about? That one can, whether he has 7,000 euros or 70,000 euros income, pay the same insurance contribution to the public social security system? Congratulations, gentlemen! You wide open the way to private insurance companies. Do you know, gentlemen, that there are poor farmers, but also other professionals, who also insure their wives? Is 5,500 euros too little for you to ask them every year as a minimum? For many of them they actually stay to live. It is certain that a large part of them will be out of insurance. You drive, gentlemen, with mathematical accuracy to destabilization and collapse the public insurance system. Firstly, with the reductions in contributions, which means less resources. Secondly, by moving funds from the public to the private insurance system. Thirdly, with the reduced costs of 200 million that you have predicted. Fourthly, without any provision for strengthening the system with resources. And you come, gentlemen, after all this, and you tell us that you will increase pensions. Either you're miraclemakers or you're passing us for naives. And because neither of them is valid, you are commonly lying. Hide that you've caught the scissors to cut off pensions. Besides, your old-fashioned sieve art. Do you think society forgot that you cut 35% to 40% in the midst of pensions? Your first signal, gentlemen, will be the tenth pension, which has been permanently introduced for the low-pension and proportional pensions. You don't recognize her as such, Minister. It's okay, they recognized her and they'll be looking for her, be sure, the low-pensioners. Since for you it is inexistent, although you have abolished it until now twice, why did the current Prime Minister promise to pay it at the end of 2020 at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? Is the commitment still true or not? He even promised that the thirteenth pension would take an institutional permanent form. Very good. I would like to ask you, Minister, can you tell us which page of seventy-one of the bill is written by this Prime Minister's commitment? Other your victims who will directly feel the reductions in their pensions: The employed pensioners before the application of Law No.4387/2016, who will see their pensions reduced by 30%. Moreover, gentlemen, those who have over forty years of insurance will see unjustified and punishable reductions, since you are downloading from 2% to 0.5% the annual rate of replacement. The vast majority of pensioners will see their pensions cut. You have, gentlemen, as in contributions, the same obsession, the same monopolies and pensions. Once again, one of the ten will have a small increase, symptomaticly the one who enjoys the highest pension today, while the remaining nine will see their pensions fall and they are the ones who currently have the lowest pensions. It's certain your communal storm has limits, gentlemen. From now on, it is not only the 'Authentics' who will speak, but also the pensioners' pockets. That is why the high expectations you have cultivated will collapse very quickly. Unfortunately, along with them, the public social security system. EFKA, Minister, in Rhodope is falling apart. I've informed you by my question. I'm telling you, by living. I'm talking to you, Minister. He also has responsibility for issuing the former OGA pensions for the entire region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. The removal of the ten new scientists from the OAED programme creates an explosive situation. Do something before it's too late. Finally, it is time to restore a flagrant injustice against our uninsured ultra-aged relatives from the former Soviet Union. Hundreds, after all, live in Rhodope. I call on you, Minister, to accept the amendment to draw up the EUR 360. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u204	We are also grateful to our colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Zoe Raptis, has the floor for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take my dentistry, too. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in our debate and confrontation of all Members' views, I think it was understood that the new insurance policy of the Ministry of Labour is a very great reform initiative for our Government. This is a cut that we had announced in the election and we are now coming to do. As has been thoroughly analysed, the new insurance system will be fairer, more rewarding and more attractive, both for private and public employees and for the multitude of professions, but it is also simpler and faster, as with the full digitisation of the system and the integration of all individual funds within an over-optimistic, pensions will be issued more quickly. This is how we have achieved the well-considered service of citizens for decades and we have saved money for the Greek State. With the new insurance bill, we receive special attention for a number of categories, young people, working mothers, widow's pensions and special disabilities. With this bill, the administration is finally in line with the decisions of the Council of State and so we are abolishing the injustices of the Katrugalo Law, which was judged to be unconstitutional by the country's Supreme Court. The Court held that the method of calculating contributions to self-employed and self-employed workers compared with the method of calculating those employees was unconstitutional, precisely because that method was not governed by the principle of equality. It's decision 1880/2019. It also found that the provisions of the Katrugalo Law concerning the calculation of supplementary pensions were unconstitutional, because they did not exist and you did not bring the proportionate studies from the National Accounting Authority to substantiate the viability of the insurance system. Thus, this bill comes to correct these errors and abolish these injustices. That is why I would like to congratulate Minister Brutsi and his staff for their diligent and thorough work in drawing up this draft law. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that, whether you like it or not, since the day of the vote on this bill, the Karugalou law will no longer be a past. In particular, what are the areas of the bill: First of all, the draft law was drawn up following a proportionate study, a full specific proportionate study, as required by the Council of State by the National Analogue Authority. This study confirms the sustainability of the insurance system by 2070, but at the same time the Ministry brought in and submitted before us another study before the debate. It is the study of the Economic University, which shows the adequacy of pensions. This bill is the first insurance bill after 12 years which has no reduction in pensions, but on the contrary has increases. Who benefit? The beneficiaries are, as we have said, the present and tomorrow's workers who have over thirty years of insurance and who will see higher benefits when retired. It's us, it's our kids. The same benefits will be for all pensioners in the country with more than thirty years of working life, who too will see their main pensions growing. Finally, the bill contains the famous increases in supplementary pensions, these pensions that had been cut by the anti-constitutional Katrugalos law to those pensioners who had a sum of main and supplementary pensions of more than EUR 1,300. In this respect, the increases will be mid-weighted to EUR 99. Moreover, the self-employed and the self-employed will benefit, as we form this system that we have said to the six categories, and at last we are completely dissociating the amounts of contributions from years of work, the declared income and the minimum wage. This is how we put an end to the shameful, tax-free policy of the previous government, which was dressed up in the cord of collecting insurance contributions and consciously smashed these productive classes, punishing them for the income they earned. Furthermore, we encourage young people to join the production process and provide for reduced contributions for the first five years of insurance for all new free professionals, scientists and self-employed. We are voting for the insurance system for the first time, and in this way we are saving considerable resources, making the management of human resources more effective, and leading to a faster retirement period, because, unfortunately, until now, the main subsidiary and the one only needed three employees from three different bodies. From today, only one insurance file and one employee will award all three pensions. Thus, we will be able to manage the vast volume of six hundred thousand outstanding pensions and those that have not been recalculated, which the previous government inherited us. Finally, we are launching the digital transformation and transformation of the system and, as of 1 June, the first new pensions to be issued will be, first, God, digital. Sadly, however, the Civic Opposition is once again presented with the attitude of lower than the circumstances. By distortions and irresistible falsehoods it claims that there is a reduction in the budget for pensions by EUR 200 million. However, ladies and gentlemen, the EUR 200 million reduction to which you have referred has nothing to do with reductions in the pension amounts to be distributed, but rather with savings and rationalisation of the pension costs of the insurance system. One fact is that from this year on the draft law we ensure that 0.5% of GDP per year is deposited in favour of the country's insurance system by 2070. For this year this amount is one billion and will be raised every year by 2070. So this is our practical support to the insured. Furthermore, SYRIZA claims that free professionals are being harmed. This, ladies and gentlemen of the Officership, is the epitome of hypocrisy. Are you talking about the most productive part of the Greeks, which you led to despair when you passed the Katorugalou law? Thousands of our fellow citizens - self-employed, lawyers, doctors, dentists, engineers, veterinarians, accountants, farmers - protested against him and against you, claiming the disconnection of income contributions while you were deaf. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you must finally understand that the contributions do not have a tax-driven role and are in no way put in place to punish citizens for their incomes, as has been done on your day. With your disastrous policy, the state has experienced the greatest tax evasion and tax evasion in its modern history. About half a billion euros lost the public funds, and that was because of your connection between contributions and income. We with this bill correct the results of your ideology and restore normality. And it may be that the minimum contribution with the new law reaches 210 euros, but in December in the context of the large tax reform we have ensured that, with an income of up to EUR 10 000, all free professionals have a reduced tax from 22% to 9%, that is to say, to save around EUR 1,300 from the tax, while at the same time only EUR 410 is charged by their contributions. Just math. There is therefore no reduction and no burden on the free traders. Contrary to this bill, we lead to higher pensions than the ones of the Katrugalos law. And I wonder why I heard that you applied for a roll-call vote, are you finally in favour of the Katrugalo law, which was declared unconstitutional? Aren't you going to vote for the pension increases we bring? I give you to the crisis of the Greek people, if you also do so to support your disastrous policy. I now come to the famous thirteenth pension. Do you have the nerve to talk about the thirteenth pension and to see us on the so-called cut? You who have now cut off the EASA, have you, at the last minute, cut off basic and supplementary pensions, remembered to give a pre-election allowance, and even a lack, which you have been baptizing as the 'Twelfth Pension'? So the truth of hearing it and the Greek people are, as we have said many times here, that the 15th pension is worth EUR 2.3 billion. You electorally share, to the voters alone, EUR 970 million without any insurance rule. So what 15th pension are you talking about? It was New Democracy which, in support of the weak, introduced in 2013 the minimum guaranteed income, but it also took care of the recent reform, the recent amendment of the Constitution, Article 21(1), and constitutionally as a safety net, a safety net to support our economically weak fellow citizens, a measure that you changed, changed his name and presented it as yours. We are, however, the New Democracy, which has increased to one billion a year to cover the needs of the eight hundred thousand families, unlike you who have given 760 million. This is a permanent support for the weak and not your own vote and opportunityal benefits. Finally, regarding your allegations about our country's employment status. He said once again that unemployment in the New Democracy has increased. Ladies and gentlemen, according to all the data from the National Statistical Authority the truth is that unemployment in November fell to 16.5% of the 18.6% of the corresponding month during the SYRIZA government last year. And full-time workers - keep this - they have increased and are, in fact, sixty-five thousand seventeen more last year, as are the companies that employ them, and in particular, sixty-five thousand two hundred twelve in 2019 from two hundred and seventy-seven thirteen in 2018. So why misinform the Greek people? You also mentioned that the Ministry of Labour was responsible for the deregulation of the labour market. It is true, however, that in the second half of 2019 on our own government a thousand checks were carried out on businesses, more than the corresponding period of 2018, when you ruled. Also, in the first half of our governance, the audit centres of EFKA have checked twenty-six thousand cases against eleven thousand cases in the last six months of its governance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall use my dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u206	Yes, sir, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u207	What, then, deregulation of the labour market are you referring to? Finally, with regard to the alleged circumvention of the collective bargaining you mentioned in advance, you know that the rule of collective agreements always applies. Proof of this is the sectoral collective labour agreement on the terms of remuneration and work of staff of all kinds of tourist and food shops, which was only passed in December and signed. Furthermore, we have heard here that you claim there is a gap in pensions between women and men, which is allegedly bringing this bill. Is it not enough to invoke our own study of the adequacy of the pensions of the University of Athens, which we have tabled before you, did not you read it already? The study graph refers to the period you ruled, i.e. the period 2015-2018. The study text says that all this time your own governance has affected the pension cuts you made more the rate of replacement for women with the curve - see, it is on page 16 - to grow geometrically from 2015 to 2018. So don't try to render the gap that you created in the Katrugalo Law period in your own law. No more mocking. Finally, under the new insurance policy, our Government has arranged for a number of vulnerable social groups. There is special care, as has been said, for the support of their families, as we enable the parent, husband or brother of that disabled family member whose pension had been suspended as a result of the work of the disabled member to be retired. We recommended to the e-Business Directorate for Reporting on all issues relating to people with disabilities. We support the sensitive social groups of pensioners who receive an extra-institutional allowance, an allowance for redundancy and blindness, who are now exempted from the levying of 6% of their health benefits. Of course, we also support working mothers, as we cover the gap created by the Katorugalos law and restore the 50% reduction in the insurance contributions of young mothers by law. Already, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from all these provisions that the Katorugalou law after the vote on this bill, as we have said, will become a past. To sum up, this bill lays the foundations for the transition of our insurance system to a new digital age. At the same time, it increases the pensions of all workers, those who are going to be retired, contributes to the growth of the economy, liberates free professionals and self-employed people, cultivates insurance and restores citizens' confidence at last in the state. For these reasons, I would like to congratulate the Minister and his staff, who have worked unobtrusively on this bill, which is indeed a part of the Greek insurance system. The path of progress and reforms will continue with momentum. We always put Greece forward, so I invite you all to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u208	And we thank Mrs. Rapt. To put in order, because the Secretariat is making a great effort to see how things are going to go. Now Mrs. Theodora Jackris will speak of SYRIZA and my favorite Pella, then Mrs. Malama Sunday. I don't have to tell Halkidiki that she's beautiful. The whole world knows. Then Mr. Davakis and then Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u209	If they agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u210	We'll agree. We must now agree, because Mr Davakis has asked me to do so too. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing the hope that preventive censorship will not reach Parliament's channel. Because when we condemned the subjection of ERT and the Athenian - Macedonian News Agency directly to the Prime Minister's office, we knew exactly what we were talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. So now that today's sample of ERT regional correspondents has come and I wonder, is there an ERF? Lesvos and Chios and private channels are fleeing, there's not even the news. So much democracy, really, we had to look at it from other times, when the country lived in the period of cheques. Minister, the cry of the islands that were deceived in the refugee region is behind you. But be sure that their rage cannot be stopped and that will happen from now on in every governmental step, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because you have said thousands of lies in order to win power. Patience to have, then, because you'll get exactly what you deserve. Before I enter my speech on today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on another sign of democracy: the newly recruited policeman, a special guard, with the Chrysochide criteria, who interpreted the lifting of university asylum as his right to point to a revolver of students within the OSCE. They asked me in Paris, where I just came from, what is happening in Greece and I told them that, in a persuasive sense of what the government wants to go through, we do not feel safe, because the police, instead of arresting evildoers, beats and abuses citizens and marks students. It is really a tragic irony, because we are experiencing this insecurity at the time we are discussing here, in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance policy, which, I am sorry to say, is a deeply terrorist bill, because it terrorises the current insured people, increasing for the nine out of ten the insurance contributions, doing the right neoliberal logic: nine to work to feed the one and one who is exempted, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, from the contribution to his incomes, and he will not, in the end, pay his insurance contributions. It will give you the lowest and the rest of its issues will be resolved through the private market. It is a terrorist bill, because the state budget reflects a reduction in the State contribution to the insurance system by EUR 200 million in 2020, a sample of the intentions of the private state Mitsotakis. You have made the conscious choice to stack the world of work, the unemployed and the retired in subordinated and overcrowded public hospitals and to get out all those who are elementarily opposed to private insurance. It is a terrorist bill, ladies and gentlemen, because it effectively abolishes the redistributive nature of the insurance system and the solidarity of the generations. You hide it today, but it'll turn out, like your other lies, much faster than you expect. This insurance bill will lead you to a violent reduction in pensions and public care in the immediate future. Really, by what proportionate study do you bring it? What sustainability assumptions did you make exactly? Because we have not seen these in the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill. You are reducing the income of the insurance system under every safety limit, of course with the security of 37 billion euros, the 'hot' money in the funds, a legacy from the SYRIZA government. It's a terrorist bill, because it's the first official act of recognition that SYRIZA legislated a thirteenth pension and today's bill abolishes it, because the law is abolished only by law. So the Minister responsible, you, Mr. Vrutsi, were mocking against the Greek people and pensioners when you said on the channels that you knew nothing about the thirteenth pension, but it turns out in practice that you knew very well and that there was and that you are going to cut it today. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with today's bill you will be recorded as the largest income terrorists, because with a single bill you are unpunished from EUR 500 to EUR 800 a year from every pensioner and a total of EUR 970 million from all pensioners, as Mrs Rapti said before. Because it was 970 million, Mrs Raptis, the thirteenth pension. Do you look a little bit like that when you abolished a monocodial? Well done, then. And superiors! Cut if you want the twelfth pension. You're spoiled! The Greek people will send you once and for all where you belong. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to focus on the legislative decoupling of income insurance contributions, which shows that even the Parliament's Budget Office is wrong. It is something that, with its weaknesses in the first phase, which, of course, attempted to correct it, also ensured the proportionality of burdens and gave back to the enclaved professionals, micro-enterprises and self-employed scientists. In practice, you are reinstated the injustices that led to the insurer's insurance capacity of thousands of OAU members, the old TEBE, that is to say, to say that. So why don't you go out and tell the insured how much pension they will get after thirty-five years of work if they pay the lowest scale of insurance? You do not do so, because everyone will understand that in practice, taking into account the forthcoming pension cuts and medical care, they will receive a significantly smaller pension than the lower insurance contribution they would receive on SYRIZA. So I challenge you to make the study on the returns of your own insurance system public compared to the returns of the insurance system on SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in voting in favour of this terrorist bill, you are actually triggering a chainless process of shrinking the social state. We all, as SYRIZA, who, with a driver Alexis Tsipras, worked hard to maintain social cohesion and re-establish the social state in what you are doing, cannot participate. We are therefore voting against because we know. We know your intentions and your ways. We know which interests you serve and who we protect. We know that you are consciously carrying out a contract of extermination of the public insurance system to make the gifts of funds and private insurance companies. But don't be arrogant. The times have changed and they will still be changed. The brainwashing of your TV partners did not make Greek society right, just united what was left of the right. Do not forget that 61% of the Greek people in the elections and more than seven out of ten people are standing to you today, because you have deceived them in the Macedonian, because you have literally deceived them in the refugee - immigration, because you are sowing the horror with guns in the universities and because tonight with this law you are actually tearing down the public insurance system. You vote whatever you want. We are, however, voting against, because we are simply aware. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u212	Thank you too for keeping time. Just seven minutes, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute for some clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u214	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I want to submit a series of legislative improvements. I would ask the Secretariat very much to come pick up the text with the improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u216	Secondly, I would like to inform through the National Representation and the world that sees us and monitors us that on Friday after the law has been passed, we will be able to post the new form to the new e-Russian who is created so that every free professional, farmer, self-employed can freely choose the category he wants and on 20 March is the final payment of these categories and contributions. Thank you very much, Mr President. One more addition: This platform will have two titles. The two titles are "I choose freely", "I aim higher", with the aim of the whole world of free professionals, self-employed and farmers to understand that it is in the best interest to choose a higher category, because they will get a higher pension, much better than the past and much higher, due to the stable health contribution we have put in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u217	And we thank the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and schoolchildren and two educational attendants from the Cardamana Kos Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for seven minutes is Mrs. Sunday Malama from the beautiful Halkidiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, this is my turn now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u219	Oh, no. First Mrs Malama will speak and then you will. He just wanted to talk to Mr. Loverdos. I told him you were in a hurry and he agreed to talk after you. Mrs Malama has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the new government's new insurance bill on a background, unfortunately, the increase in unemployment, as is apparent from the official OAED figures for January 2020. For the first time after leaving the Memorandum, registered unemployed in the OAED exceeded one million. In this context, it is triumphant without substance the claim of the rulings that the country's insurance system is viable until 2070.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, there is no government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u222	Mrs. Malama, an interruption. They're both gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u223	Dear benches, empty benches, then, we continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u224	Mrs. Malama, if you'd like, I can interrupt. If you want, keep going. I'll leave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u225	Here's the man.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u226	He's here. Mrs. Malama, if you please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u227	So welcome again. In the context of this, therefore, this is triumph without substance the claim of the rulings that the country's insurance system is viable by 2070. At the same time, it is the government's triumph that the new insurance system reduces insurance contributions. The truth of the numbers is ruthless and, in fact, for 90% of the free professionals, namely those who have up to 12 000 euros income, insurance contributions increase from EUR 90 to EUR 420 per year. Especially for small professionals, for the small coffee shop of the village, for the violator shop, insurance contributions increase from EUR 185 per month to EUR 210. Similarly, for the small farmer from EUR 95 per month, the minimum contribution is EUR 120 per month and will go up another year by 2022. In other words, the new landscape in social security is all but developmental. Occupationals will unfortunately see this with the "Assemblies" now in March, including the retrospective increases in contributions from previous months. There your vacancy triumph will crumble. You also tell us that this draft law increases the rate of replacement and pensions increase. However, any increases resulting from a small share of pensioners will be accountable only, as they will be offset by the increase that pensioners would receive in the coming years through the penalisation process. Also, for the big losers, the uniforms and those with over forty years of insurance. Similarly lost and low-pension workers and workers in heavy and unhealthy occupations. Since some will rush to say that these are the interpretations of SYRIZA, I would like to read to you at this point the placement of the president of the workers in the Kassandra mines, which manages, as we all know, the "ELDORADO GOLD". I will tell you that this body was invited to the hearing of the legislators. So listen to what the miners' representative said at the hearing of the legislators here in the House last week, to see that your insurance affects workers in the heavy professions, but also to see what kind of development you want in this country. So the spokesman says, and I read it in words: "The expected limit of miners' lives is sixty-two to sixty-three years. All workers after 15 years working underground have huge health problems. There shall be no worker who has no such problems, cardiologically and respiratoryly.’; Let's go! And it concludes: 'Because we can't make either thirty-five or forty years in underground, especially in this area, see how we can with a premium or more rewarding to get a better pension'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Repeat: Expectancy limit sixty - two to sixty - three years!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u228	We didn't change the age limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u229	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u230	Minister, Mr. Economou, do not interrupt. Let her talk. The people are judging. Keep going, Mrs. Malama.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u231	That's all, so you don't triumph. That was said a week ago in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u232	That's what they said about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u233	Have you been interrupted at all during your speech, gentlemen? For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u234	Mrs. Malama, don't have a dialogue. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u235	Do I have a dialogue, or do I have the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u236	Yeah, but you're answering him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u237	These things are funny. You're inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u238	Set later, Minister. You don't have to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u239	The Minister pays attention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u240	Please, Minister. Please, Mr. Economou. Let her talk. After all, he made a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u241	You asked for him in the Chamber. He's here to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u242	No, the Minister's not answering now. He's picking up and answering when I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u243	Is that what you do? What courage! 'We asked the Minister for him!' It's things we've never done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u244	Mrs. Malama, go on. Don't engage in dialogue with those who answer underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u245	To the gentleman, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u246	That's what I'm telling him. You guys keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u247	Shame on you, really! You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u248	I would like to ask you, please, to say "shut up"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Economou, please! You interrupted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u250	Registration is the man...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u251	You packed up all the
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Economou, please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, it's not a panel here! Please! Mrs. Malama, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u253	So, what's this bill actually doing? It carries the burden of the insurance system from the large companies, from the very high incomes to the precarious workers, workers from the unhealthy professions and small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, you are further reducing the income of the under-retired and you are going to abolish the thirteenth pension. You were supposed to have made an election commitment to maintaining the measure. After the downturn in the social dividend, then, you are also abolishing the specific support allowance for low-pensioners, plunging the purchasing power of households and stepping up market stagnation. That is why, for the first time after leaving the memorandum, the unemployed have exceeded a million. How, then, will the social security system remain sustainable when unemployment is increased and the insurance burdens are transferred to the weakest? How will the world of work have access to a decent pension when you increase the minimum contribution? You say that you offer the possibility for those with high incomes to pay higher contributions for a higher pension. This measure already exists. It's already legislation. How many are using it? Apparently, a few. Because professionals aren't that they don't want to, but they don't have the ability to pay. In this context, our reasonable fear is that the new insurance system is likely to work effectively for businesses and reduce the actual available income of the low-retired. That is why we are opposed to the arrangements you enter, and very soon professionals will see the bitter truth of numbers, which you diligently hide behind your communication triumph. Our approach is that of the proportional distribution of insurance burdens and at the same time the implementation of aggressive employment policies, with support for healthy entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, however, with your plan, the workers will see their insurance future down and the real winners will be no more than the very big players of the economy. Thank you, Mr President, for the support.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mrs Malama, and excuse me for what happened. Mr Davakis from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, something was said earlier, which did indeed alienate me and saddened me. The previous colleague - not Mrs Malama, Mrs Jackson - referred to the New Democracy by saying that the people will send us where we belong. I am sorry, because these expressions go out of this Chamber and I think they should be more restrained and more measured. Indeed, the Greek people a few months ago sent us where this people's party belongs and is in the service of their interests. Despite any mistakes, from its recommendation, this fact is intended to serve the national interests and interests of the Greek people. In our view, social security must be based on four principles: it must be sustainable. The social security system cannot be charged to third parties and especially to future generations. It has to work reciprocatingly. The more one contributes in the years of his work, the more one has to receive as a pension. And it must work in development, because the social security system cannot act as a stimulus to investment. They must also respect and support the institution of the family, which was affected under the previous Katorugalou law. The Katrugalos Act was the epitome of the left, distorting, I would say, of an understanding of the economy, society and work. Has the social security system not turned into a system of taxation and burdening the productive fabric of the country into a system of punishment and compensation, downward, treatment of pensioners who have had many years of insurance? Has it not caused unbelievable problems and delays in issuing pensions, suffering hundreds of thousands of people insured and retired? Has he not attacked the institution of the family by introducing the unacceptable provisions on widow's pensions, which the SYRIZA government originally initially defended, but which, in the end, was forced to take back, at the expense of popular reactions? I remember here Mr Petropoulos, about two years ago, who told me about the widow's pensions that the members of the Armed Forces, whose families were mostly diagnosed with widow's pensions, gave him plaques to thank him. Listen to this! Today we are called upon, ladies and gentlemen, to support a new proposal which rebuts the injustices of this law, which has, moreover, been a fundamental pre-election commitment from the New Democracy. This is how the replacement rates are corrected, and indeed with retroactiveness. So we send out the message that the state respects the justice institution, as the insurance system complies with the relevant judicial decisions. Thus, the increase in supplementary pensions is another intervention which will be directly reflected in the income of many pensioners. Thus, lastly, the fairest system of contributions for freelance professionals restores great injustice against the country's productive fabric. And so the organisational changes that have been launched will be in the right direction, as they are made with the aim of improving the services provided throughout the pension system. Before closing, Minister, I would like to address two key issues, which I believe need to be improved, and I have informed you personally. I believe that the Ministry should see the issue of pension cuts on pensioners employed in the areas of the so-called general government, who have not completed the sixty-first year of their age. I am talking about retired military officers, officials of the Armed Forces, who have been in government positions, who are automatically retired after thirty-five years of continuous service and from the age of eighteen are usually deported at the age of fifty-three years. However, the provision of full retirement from fifty-three to sixty-two years for work in the public sector prevents the provision of specific work, valuable, I would say, work, with a lot of experience, with many experience, I would say, qualifications, which the Greek administrative machine needs today and which these services will be deprived of. Finally, I would also like to join in my voice on the issue of the relatives of the Northern Epirus. I believe that, following the intervention of the Prime Minister, you will see this again and have a favourable outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to organise the debate, I would like to inform you that this evening we will proceed by number 138, that is to say until Seraio, Mr Avramakis, from the list of speakers and the roll-call vote will take place tomorrow at 18: 30. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u257	I apologise to all colleagues and colleagues. We have a parliamentary group meeting and I am on my own. When you see them come, you give me the floor then. You can proceed to the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u258	So, Mr. Miltiadis Chrysomallis is called in the New Democracy at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the difficulties of SYRIZA colleagues in developing a serious opposition and I understand their embarrassment to see a government introducing a new insurance law, simple, fair and rewarding, within just six months of its election. This shows once again the honesty of the government, but also of this minister. However, this lack of your arguments does not need to lead you to extremes, such as those I have heard earlier than Mrs Fotio, which described us as fraudulent. Apparently, she was talking to her mirror. After all, it is well known who proved to be political fraudsters in this country. And to add that, if what we read in the pre-examination is true, some of them are just fraudulents of the ordinary criminal law. What I cannot understand is how SYRIZA's colleagues are continuing to defend the Katorugalou law, a law that has drowned the free professionals, which has made the tax evasion of a one-way survival, which has embarrassed the social state towards the widowed spouses, which has reduced pensions horizontally and, finally, the law itself has been demolished by the Council of State as an anti-constitutional. Who? The law of Mr. Katrugalos, of the other constitutionalist. It is no coincidence that he is not even in the Chamber to defend him. She left Mrs. Ahchioglu alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u260	He's hurt. Be fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u261	He doesn't know that apparently.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u262	Now you, supposedly, were "the every word of the Constitution", as you were saying, how can you trespass every concept of the Constitution in every area, that no one has understood that. It is, rather, what Mr Tsipras said about the 'competence of power' and was unable to achieve them fully, fortunately, for the country. The best thing you'd have to do, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, would be to vote for this bill as a minimum sign of apologies to the citizens, the ones you've smacked over all these years. Because your idealism - as expressed through the Katrugalou law - was unable to stand up to the constitutional requirements, against the principle of proportionality and, above all, against common sense. The method of calculating contributions to the professions was considered unconstitutional. We correct this today with the new insurance policy and we can look in the face of the about eight hundred thousand self-employed professionals who benefit from it. The cuts and the recalculation of supplementary pensions, which you voted in 2016, were considered unconstitutional, because it was arbitrary and without a proportionate study. And that is what we are correcting today, for the first time in the 40 years of post-multi-population - and that is why there is a timely responsibility of the governments - a proportionate study and a sustainability report which accompanies the insurance bill. So look, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the retired people in the eyes and tell them that you are not voting for this and how you prefer the horizontal cuts that you voted in 2016. We are surviving those who have been held on the labour market and increasing the pensions for those who have thirty and more years. And you're voting against this? And you'll be able to look the retired in the eye? We create e-EVCA, because your EVC has failed to achieve its four years of integration, to serve the insured and the retired. Thousands of applications are still left in cardboard. You don't know that? Do they honestly not come to you, do they, friends and relatives, complain that their pension makes two and three years to be awarded? Are we the only ones listening to this? This inefficiency and your inability we correct with today's law, gentlemen of SYRIZA, introducing something that should have already been done, namely the digitisation of the pension system. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I would expect you to hear a calmer, more constructive criticism as a minimum of apologies for your actions, especially with regard to important draft laws such as insurance. Instead, we hear press arguments: 'Abrogate the thirteenth pension'. What thirteenth pension, gentlemen? It was an allowance, given on the basis of the potential of the economy. You have exhausted it by election, by insulting citizens, because you thought you would take their vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u263	Have you read the text?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Chakatte!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u265	The world has judged it, Mr. Chakalote!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u266	Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Chakatte, please! Mr. Chrysop, you're addressing me. No dialogue with Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u268	Go on with those brains!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u269	Finally, read a text in this House!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u270	He hurt you for going to fool the world and people took it and didn't vote for you! That's what's upsetting you. This is gonna happen again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u271	No dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u272	Read, my Christian!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I ask for my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u274	Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u275	Also, in what logic is the argument you are using, that one who has 5000 euros of income to one who has 100,000 euros of income will pay the same contribution? Just because he'll pay the same contribution at the end, he'll get the same pension. Is it that hard to understand? That means recompense. How much more money each will pay through taxation is another thing than the insurance bill. At last, don't get confused and don't try to confuse the world, even though he understands. And this - you know - that's our big difference in the insurance bill. Why wrong with lies, Mr. Tsakalotos before, in his introduction, said it: We had a purely class and ideological approach to our own law, to break the middle class, to tear them down. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u276	Today you hear that from the Chaakalot?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u277	Today you are very vibrant!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u278	On the contrary, we defend something different. We have another ideological approach, Mrs Fotio, as much as that makes you sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u279	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u280	Mrs. Fotio, please. People are judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u281	Let's go, talk for yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u282	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u283	Mrs. Fotou, you're not respecting anything. Respect the Chamber and the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Chrysop, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u285	You don't respect me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u286	No one interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u287	In Stepma, Mrs. Fotio, it's Mr. Chrysomalis. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u288	Respect the Chamber and the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u289	Go on, Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u290	On the contrary, we have another ideological approach and we do not hide it. We give everyone space to create, develop, depending on their skills and talents, create and conquer their dreams. And we don't come as a state to be its great partner. In the end, however, it will also have the same pension. That means recompense. And that will apply to everyone, except young professionals, who will have lower contributions for the first five years. But be careful, we won't ask them back, just like you did. Don't you even have the courage to vote? Finally, we also give farmers the possibility, in addition to their low contribution, if they want, to be able to change insurance according to their capacity. Because we do not consider them second-class citizens and give them the right to claim a higher pension. And you're voting against this? You don't even give them that right? Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, it's clear. We, loyal to our election commitments, our perception of the functioning of the market and social policies, bring in a draft law that cures your own ideological choices. You choose the easy path of meaningless criticism. We choose to regain confidence between generations. That means an insurance system. We choose to give the new generation, my generation, the younger ones, looking into their eyes, two critical answers to two crucial questions. So I'm gonna retire when my working life is over? The answer to this bill is: Yes, you will find and you will be there. And he answers a second question that the new generation has. How do I know that in the future won't another Catrugalo come to level everything? For two reasons, this is not going to happen and I am addressing young people. Firstly, there will be a difficult new Katrugalos, because in the way you are fighting but also in your actions as government of the first time left now society has understood and for many decades it will say "never left again". Secondly, because this bill has as a solid basis the proportionate study and the sustainability study, it will not be easy to make isotopic changes, only improvements. And that's what they need, Minister, and in the right time we'll be doing it. This is our big difference, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We think about the next generations while you thought uniquely about your idealism and party cheques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u291	You also owe Mr. Katrugalo a pass. Mr. Katrugalos is injured. That's why he's not here, and he's gonna lose a lot of racing than he looks. We should wish him by hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, I had forgotten Mr. Katrugalo's accident. I apologise for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u293	Of course, that's the way it should be. Up on the Step. You don't have a dialogue. He'll come next and he'll answer. Why interrupt? There's no need. I know that some of you are on your insides. You want to talk about it. But why interrupt? Why should we have that picture? I understand, Mr Chakaloto. But people judge. No one interrupted anyone. Mr. Meikopoulou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are discussing a bill whose nature and content exceeds the life expectancy of the current government, as its implementation affects the present and future generations of Greek citizens. In this light, insurance is a structural issue for which any nuclear modification entails social, fiscal and development implications. It is at least naive for the government to claim that there has been an exhaustive dialogue on this bill, let alone that this constitutes an integrated insurance reform, when most of it is a product of the need to amend important provisions of Law4387, which were found to be unconstitutional by the Council of State. Therefore, Minister, Mr Brutsi, the public consultation procedure, which lasted two weeks, however necessary and useful it may be, cannot act as a substitute for institutional social dialogue, as required in this particular situation. Unless you think, Minister, that at a hearing of bodies at the joint meeting of the Committees on Social Affairs and Employment, institutional social dialogue has been exhausted and the basis has been formulated in order to achieve wider consensus and convergence. For there to be, Minister, consensus and convergence, there must be three things: honesty, good faith and there must be no secret agenda. I come to a paradox, ladies and gentlemen. While the government for the bill we are discussing today claims the title "integrated insurance reform", at the same time, all the Members of the Co-Police are trying to defend it by launching the arrows for the Katorugalos law. You celebrate that you are carrying out a reform that is heterogeneous in relation to SYRIZA's insurance. But go further, saying that today's insurance gives - you say - increases in pensioners and drastically reduces contributions for the majority of free professionals and employees. Let's see, though, is that the case? Let's start once from something we all agree on. Our country's social security system has revenue from state funding, from employee contributions and from the use of the movable and immovable property of the insurance funds. So you're saying that you're bringing a sustainable insurance system by 2070. But, Minister, according to the proportionate studies you have submitted to the House, state funding is falling as a percentage of GDP. At the same time, Minister, the policies implemented in the field of labour have already led to redundancies, wage cuts, and you do not implement your pre-election commitment to a further real increase in the minimum wage. How will the resources of the system be strengthened, Mr Brutsi, with this data? You say a million pensioners will see increases in their pensions. How is this going to happen when, for two and a half million pensioners, the institutionalised permanent and stable thirteenth pensions are abolished, but at the same time, the cost of the pensions that you voted for in 2020 is reduced by EUR 200 million? You say that from the increase in the rate of replacement there will be increases for everyone. How will this happen to everyone, when these increases only concern those who have more than thirty years of insurance, while you know, Mr Brutsi, that 84% of those insured with less than thirty-three years of insurance are retired by the ECA? You claim to reduce insurance contributions for employees. What you are actually doing is reducing the contributions in favour of the OAED by 0.9%. How, then, will this institution, by depriving it of resources, be able to design active employment policies, which means work for the unemployed, i.e. additional resources through contributions to the insurance system? You strongly argue that, by reintroducing the insurance system, there will be relief for all freelance professionals in terms of their contributions. So I wonder where you see this relief when the lowest contribution by the law of SYRIZA was at EUR 185, while your law will go to EUR 220 per month? This burden will be for the majority of free professionals. Minister, you are well aware that the new scheme will be implemented within an insurance fund, with common benefits financed by all the insured. This means that the freedom of choice of class will create reactions to the insured persons of the fund where such treatment is not provided for. Does it mean, however, Mr Brutsis and something else: do you not believe, Mr Minister, that there is a clear distortion in favour of the largest incomes, when someone makes either EUR 1,000, or EUR 100,000, or EUR 1 000, or EUR 1 000, will be able to pay the lowest contribution? Do you see it fair not to take account of tax capacity, a basic principle of distribution systems? According to Minister, with the Institute of Small Enterprises in GATT, there is the estimate that the new contribution scheme creates an additional total cost for the majority of the free professionals, while well-founded fears of loss of revenue from the application of new insurance contributions are expressed. A very modest estimate mentions a total loss of revenue of about EUR 200 million. And I ask, Minister: Where will this loss of revenue be covered? What about those who are insured will not be able to respond to the new increased contributions? Aren't you going to regain personal restraint, Mr. Brutsi? Ladies and gentlemen, I come to a oxymotor: the government says that citizens must trust the public social security system and pay more money to get higher pensions. But you yourself have already opened up the debate and even invited large insurance companies to meet, so that young people who have been insured since 2021 and then invested their salaries in private providers, of course, taking the relevant risk. Minister, in the past few days you have been keenly seeking the consensus on the new insurance policy, baptizing it as an important reform that will bring, not least, the spring for the pensioners and the workers of the country. I told you at the beginning of my speech that this presupposes a tripartite one: honesty, good faith and no secret agenda. However, on the basis of the data I have given you, Minister, and disprove me, one can export three things: myths, impatientness, but also an increasingly obvious agenda for the attempted privatisation of social security. I think that from the window, with a shameful one - I would say - how you enter the classic recipe of internal undermining, with a view to completely depreciating public security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis, MP of Heraklion, SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. And what did we not hear in this debate again? If we isolate New Democracy MPs from time and space, I would say that it is not difficult to conclude that Greece was founded on 25 January 2015, it was governed only by SYRIZA, who went bankrupt in July 2015, the sieges were nailed to their chairs and the saviors of the nation came in July 2019 to escape the country! Unfortunately for you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, apart from the account of amnesia, there is our everyday life. In this everyday life we have known the political proposal of the conservative party. In this daily life we knew the right-wing policy that went bankrupt the country. In this everyday life we lived the right-wing policy between 2010 and 2014 in this five-year unsuccessful effort to get us out of the Memorandums. What was the right-wing proposal? Reduction of wages, reduction of pensions, reduction of wages, reduction of wages, either by unemployment or by extinguishing them to retirement and depreciation of work, by collective agreements as a measure for the protection of workers, up to the underprivileged one set of measures. What were the results of this failed policy? I know that we lost 25% of national wealth, the reduction of 60% in wages and pensions, the unemployment that reached 30%, the unemployment of young people at 60%, the bleeding of home into its scientific potential, the violent poverty of wider social strata, which led us to two and a half million fellow citizens to lose access to the public health system. That was the unsuccessful recipe. What does New Democracy propose today? First of all, I would like to make it clear that, in order to avoid a deaf dialogue, I expect the New Democracy colleagues, not only from the Minister, but also from the New Democracy colleagues, to respond at last. What, then, does New Democracy propose today? First, a reduction in pensions. From the budget we already have a reduction of EUR 200 million in pension expenditure. Secondly, why has the New Democracy undone its position, as expressed by the head of your resignation at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, that the thirteenth pension will be maintained? Why did he undo it? Thirdly, the analogous report tabled by the Minister. We've heard that too! The first time, right, analogue! It provides for a reduction in the average pension by 2040. How do colleagues in the New Democracy become? How do these reductions referred to in the very texts you have brought go hand in hand? How do they keep up with what some of you say? Some of those who preceded me said that they vote and are proud to increase pensions. Secondly, an increase of 20% of the minimum contribution is proposed. This is about 90% of retired and freelance professionals. Irrespective of the fact that perhaps within this 90% is included some cases of tax evasion, tax evasion, etc., it is still the overwhelming majority that will pay more and which, in fact, proves and confirms the class mark in your policy, which costs 90% for the benefit of 10%. Third. I'm not going to stand by the details. They have been said by other Members. I want to stand up to the four points that go as a red thread to the draft law you brought today for vote. The reduction in contributions to higher incomes, the option of a scale, which makes sense for everyone to choose the smallest, creates, in my opinion, a problem of the sustainability of the public insurance system, creates a clear framework for a shift in private insurance. In other words, Minister, in my opinion with your draft law, you are increasing the vital area of private insurance. Fourth. The 30% reduction in pensions for employed pensioners creates a new category. Retired people who would have a salary greater than the wage they would have as employees, pay greater than the remuneration they would have as ordinary retired persons. Essentially in this situation people are ejected out of work and retired. Here, then, in this cut, allow me the expression, it hides the cheese in the light of the fact that it comes to replace the uncertain environment. "Children get retired. It's changing. We do not know what pension the new pensioners will receive." He's coming to replace your voluntary exit to remember your older policies. In fact, if we look at these four points, namely that pension spending is reduced and all these cuts, in conclusion what we can see is that in the particular bill you brought, Minister, we see the ideological obsession of the New Democracy in the failed recipes of the crisis, of misery, of monuments. Of course, things are not as bad as they seem. It's much worse. In its seven months of governance, New Democracy deceives retired and freelance professionals. The New Democracy dismantles SYRIZA's social policy in favour of vulnerable and weaker social groups. It lags out what we restored to industrial relations from 18 August onwards. It degrades, cancels SYRIZA's institutional changes to the EITs. It confers activities of the public health system on the State-owned private body. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Allow me, Mr President. I'll be done. It replaces multi-dimensional foreign policy with a given and predictable one. Coming to the management of the refugee immigration from New Democracy, in my opinion it should be added to the Greek dictionary next to the 'fail.' For all this, the essential salt pepper. I am talking about the people who need labour aristocracy, the trade union bureaucracy to be able to stand and condone by the Greek society. I'm talking about the people who melted them in their heads, the students at the ASA and not just. I'm talking about the people our islanders are experiencing these days. I am speaking in other words - and I consider this to be the necessary salt pipe - for the repression of the right-wing State, for the terrorism of the right-wing State, for the rod of the right-wing State that falls where the word does not pass. Of course, Minister, I fully agree with you. With you. We're two different worlds. I agree with the speech you made yesterday in plenary. Of course, I disagree with some of the New Democracy colleagues who have mocked us. Someone else told us fools, someone else told us jokes, someone else told us graphics. What can we do? This is the level of the depth of their political thought. This is their political stature. That's how they judge. I cannot blame them for being politically inadequate. But I agree with you that we are two different worlds. We're with the many, you're with the few. We are with the weak, those who really need left policy, you are with the powerful. We're with democracy, you're with authoritarianism. We're trying to heal the wounds of society. You face the wounds of society as a side-effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u297	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u298	I'll be done. In closing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, experience your virtual reality in the protection cocoon and provide you with your friendly broadcasting. Anxiety the political reality through the deformative lenses of your parliamentary majority that allows you to see as your political stature your political shade at the left. But know that blowing air is good. No matter how much it hurts you, no matter how much you don't like the Left, the wider progressive democratic party will seal Greece of the new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Igoumenides. The sure thing is, we're not enemies of each other here. Different opinions, different opinions, different opinions. We all respect them. Wordbook, like what has been heard, must not be heard here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-two students and three students and three teachers from the High School of Thessaloniki. Welcome a lot of good progress! [[Applause]] Mr. Delis from the Communist Party of Greece and Thessaloniki has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President. Despite the two days in which Members of the New Democracy Government are now claiming this step, even congratulating the Minister and this New Democracy law on insurance is not as young as it is. Like all the previous ones in this insurance kit, which began in the early 1990s, each new law contains all the previous ones, just as it is with Russian dolls, baboons. So what he certainly does is assimilate, retweet and ultimately implement the 2016 Katrugalos law. See the architecture of New Democracy's current insurance law. In absolutely nothing is different from the architecture of SYRIZA's respective law. Just the New Democracy makes some additions to it even more and some amendments to overcome the legal gaps identified by the Council of State. At the same time, with the same law, New Democracy is further opening the way for the full privatization of supplementary pensions. The infamous new insurance policy of the New Democracy is therefore not only old but also tested. This is the well-known system of the three pillars which transforms the insurance of workers from social to individual case. And this is something that millions of insured and so many uninsured people in the United States are already living in, as well as in other capitalist countries. It is on this three-pillar system that is based both the Katorugalo and the current one. Two days now, the New Democracy's confrontation with SYRIZA here is not possible. Will you tell me how to talk about these three pillars of the well-known Pinochet system, that is, when you legislate these pillars? How do you talk about the age limits that you took together in the sixty - seven and already discuss all seventy? How are you going to talk about the replacement factors? Those of whom, in other words, also come out of retirement, when you go with them to 40% of the average wage of the whole working life, while these rates were only ten years ago at 80% of a worker's last wage. The pensioners lost three, four, even five pensions? Lost or not? And now you're fighting here for the thirteenth, the hell? How can you speak of the greatest robbery of a recommendation from the Greek state, which someone would say, about the robbery of the hundreds of billions of funds, when you are the political co-workers of this robbery and when you want this robbery to be forgotten with the well-known 'what happened'? But the banks did not forget them, neither did they. It was not enough for the multiple recapitalisations that you made on the people's hump until they covered their mess since PSI 2012, you secured them from above and tax immunity, with the infamous deferred bank tax. At the same time, the biggest loss of the insurance funds, the sweat and the blood of the workers, the haircut of these funds by the PSI, without shame, is invoking it to vote alternately for insurance laws such as today's and the previous ones. However, insurance is not just pensions, as many people think it is the systemic coronary media. Pensions, of course, are a crucial aspect of protection and a decent life, after the work of years and years. The insurance system, however, also includes other, equally important issues for the life of each worker, every worker and every young person. And the new generation, the new working class shift, is good to notice what they say and what insurance laws provide for, because these young people are pointing at them and concern them directly, now and not just for the distant future for them. Because, part of the insurance system is or must be the protection of motherhood by the state, it is also the insurance of children of young couples, they are their vaccines, they are the medicines when they themselves and their children are ill, they are their medical examinations, they are also their protection against the occupational risk of an occupational accident, and they are the care for the possible occupational diseases that they are fading, they are the care for people with disabilities, they are all and so important for the daily life of young people. As for their future pensions, for most will move around the national pension of EUR 380 mixed please, since they need nine thousand to twelve thousand badges to get an extra pension. And we ask which young worker, Minister, who has worked in the years of the crisis and who is, today, twenty-five years old, will manage to have thirty-five, forty-five years, eight-hour, continuous work? Where will the thirty-five years be filled with insured years, the over one million unemployed in recent years and the wanderers of the OAED's fewest projects? Which young worker who has eaten redundancies with the spoon, who works with part-time, with four-hour, six-week, weekends, season, working delivery, how will he get stuck with nine, ten, twelve thousand alcohols? How many years will an alternate teacher, who has a maximum of eighty meanings per year, even if he is appointed tomorrow, have to reach ten or twelve thousand equivalents? What is it? It's Hilander? What new scientist working on a block is going to be able to complete forty years of continuous work, paying over and above the great insurance contributions? In fact, what you're doing is all these thousands of young workers, with your laws like today, pushing them to the nails of insurance companies, of the private caradokulls. Here, why youth must enter - and you will be in, be sure -, sooner or later in front of the struggle to abolish the Katorugalo - Brutsis law now, tomorrow to be voted on, a law that ravages social security for both today's workers and for tomorrow's pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, too. The reason for Mrs Christina Alexopoulou in New Democracy is from beautiful Achaia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not just discussing whether the new insurance bill is good or bad if it is better or worse than the previous one if it will bring increases or reductions in employment if it brings increases or reductions in pensions. This bill is certainly better than the previous one, it will bring growth in employment and will surely bring increases in pensions. It is also anthropocentric, as it enables insured and future pensioners to choose the amount of pension they wish to receive and pay the corresponding contributions during their working life. At the same time, it is fair, as all new entrants in the labour market and not only young doctors, lawyers, engineers give the opportunity for low contributions in the first five years, without then asking for the difference back, and indeed, with interest as the Katrugalos Act did. As a government, SYRIZA committed a political inconsistency with that provision. He knew very well that five years later he would not be in the government and only his concern was the creation of a major problem, which the next government would be invited to face. Only fortunately for Greece, the next government came and capable and ready. It's also fair, because the replacement rates change significantly upwards, giving an incentive to stay at work for more years. A characteristic example of the Katrugalo law and thirty-five years of work, the replacement rate was 33.8%. Forty years, the replacement rate was 42.8%. Different nine percentage points. The Brutsi Act for thirty-five years of work becomes 37.3% and forty years 50.5%. A lot of 13.3%. So under the Katorugalou law, the worker had no incentive to remain a worker, while under the Brutsi Act the worker knows that as many years as he has worked the longer he will receive. What's more reasonable than that? We therefore have a free choice of insurance, higher pensions and employment incentives for a longer period. This is, ladies and gentlemen, proof that there are no magical solutions, but practical solutions, especially in a country where there are no other mistakes in insurance, as its biggest problem is demographic itself. Two issues completely interlinked. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] The new insurance bill is the first in the history of the country that has a comprehensive viability proportional study by 2070. To understand the citizens, this means that before being submitted it has been thoroughly examined whether the Greek state for the next 50 years will be able to pay the pensions to be paid by the insured. And he'll be able to. With the new law, the pension will be calculated electronically. Once the digitisation of insurance records has been completed, after the integration of the insurance funds, the pensioner can receive the full pension rather than the pensioner. Because, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you were his government against it, and we are his government all. The free professionals, the middle-class people, the housewives, who were literally equal to the tax on contributions, because basically they were taxation, are considerably lower. For example, someone who for a period had lower incomes than before will be able to pay less and not be indebted to the ECA with thousands of euros and damaged financially, professionally, socially, familyly. Lower contributions equal to a higher incentive to declare all incomes. Lower contributions equal to a reduction in undeclared work. And that means a profit both for the public fund and for the citizen. Minister, I am very honoured that as a Member of Parliament and of course as a freelance professional with my vote I contribute to this. Greek farmers, farmers, fishermen are part of a specific context of reduced contributions considerably differentiated from the rest of the free professionals. In other words, primary production is significantly strengthened. For us, new mothers, at last, someone is dealing with and solving the problem with the reduced contributions already created by the previous law. This insurance bill is, therefore, the main objective of what must always have a bill directly related to people's lives: social cohesion, occupational safety, individual and collective development. And here you will allow me to address the SYRIZA honourable Members with absolute honesty and ask them to give us a clear answer: why, ladies and gentlemen, are you opposed to a bill that you even know very well that will be a much better law than the Katrugalos Act? Why are you against a bill that allows every citizen to have more money in his pocket? I do not want to believe that the reasons are micro-political, because that would mean that you are promoting the defence of your party against the social interest. You have the opportunity, with the support of this draft law, to pass as a party on the opposite bank, of political seriousness. I hope and hope that, at least at the last minute, you will. For our part, we support and vote for this bill. Not because the government of Mr.Mitsotakis brings it, but because we really believe it is in the right and nationally advantageous direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u303	Thank you. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I've been following a series of draft law on insurance for the years I've been a MP. I conclude, after ten years of crisis, that mind will never be put on. Looks like it's something weird that's chasing us. When we talk about insurance, not just about it, but of course, when we talk about insurance, we prove that Sisphus's myth holds well. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must think about why this time we are discussing insurance, there is nowhere on the news. Although we are discussing a million-dollar issue, there is no interest in it, except for individual citizens who have been interested and asked for amendments. I should like to say this from the microphone, so as not to explain it to one by one, that Mr Brutsi said that he would not accept any amendments. So this draft law will go as it is. So we understand and everything that's gonna be done will be done later. No one's watching. Because everyone understands that the insurance has a course on their own and that, in the end, even though the crisis has come to give us brains, brains will not put and we will continue to "clad" like this: Which is better, when and why. That's a pointless conversation. I will speak on the basis of evidence and logic. I would like to say, however, that when I received from Mrs Fani Petralia, the then commander of IKA intervened in the ritual, he interrupted it and told me - and I was an hour Minister - that if I did not find 2.5 billion in a week, the pensions of December will not be paid. That was the situation. When I saw the situation on this, the four major funds - IKA, OGA, etc. - they had a deficit of EUR 5.4 billion, while we had handed over a deficit of EUR 530 million in 2004. Leave the debts to hospitals, which are, of course, enclosed in the previous thought. At the same time, the country had a deficit of 15.6% or 15.7% of the annual deficit. In this case, the worst economic situation in Greece in the post-war period was passed by Law 3863/2010. You're fighting us hard, very hard, all of us. But let's go to today. I do not want, Mr Brutsi, to crash or even to exchange arguments on the wrong basis, because we are wasting time. I cannot, however, submit to the Minutes, although I rarely submit documents in the Minutes in order not to load Parliament's warehouses. I do it for at least the first time in this parliamentary term. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have tabled a proportionate study concerning the four largest funds in the country, namely 90% of the population, and we have accompanied it with Law 3863. And in 2011, since I and George Koutromanis then cooperated with the International Labour Organisation, we submitted our proportionate study with approval and confirmation that we were well thinking about Eurogroup. So we were serious in numbers. Of course, every proportionate study, like yours, needs adjustments. You told me yesterday that you encountered problems during application. This is the fate of the Ministers for Labour and Social Security: to walk on the basis of studies that require continuous adaptation. After three to four years, every time adjustments are needed. Now, what principles did we have as a basis for moving? We had two. The viability of the system and the returnability. No one can say in this Chamber anything different, that he thinks otherwise and is more prosperous or more ingenious in thinking. The recompense of our own arrangements was much greater than yours, but obviously also by the Katorugalos law. I do not believe in my criticism that both the Katorugalou law and your own law will have, ladies and gentlemen, for the young pensioners, the pensioners of Katorugalos and then, the situation, from the pension they receive, 60% will arise from the national pension - the basic, as 3863/2010 said - and 40% will result from the incompatibility. In the argument whether these factors are good or bad, I am clear. They're better than Mr. Katrugalos, but they're far short of ours. Given the contributions, Mr. Brutsi. We are always talking about compensation on an annual basis and we are also studying contributions next door. The number, 60% -40%, it's crazy. Because I am talking about difficulties that all governments have, let me tell you that, according to a new, final study of the 'Third-Third Group', by banks and university professors, the global deficit in financing insurance systems, pension systems, amounts to $13.5 trillion, to find out what we are talking about. The "ralis": "How much you gave and how much I gave and what good I am", to keep them for other places, for places that we don't do a serious job. Also, have you seen from the EUR 29 billion that we give pensions time how much the state contributes and how much reciprocity now that we're talking about? We're close to 50% - 50%. Do you understand what it is you should give as a state contribution of EUR 15 and EUR 15.5 billion a year to cover pensions? You've arrested it, so we can talk seriously and get to know each other? You have also realised that if we wanted to be rewarding we had to have six million workers and we have two million six hundred. Have we come to an agreement? We don't have one, and we won't. I'm listening to SYRIZA. We'll never get to know each other. This will always be the case, since after ten years of crisis they haven't put their minds on. Now, because we are talking about systems, Mr. Brutsi, your people at "Kathemerini" today - see the first page and see Sunday - you are being blamed for not reform, not by us. We were talking about reform, because we had in our supplies as the PASOK of Simitis - the hard thing is that - the ESS is the law of 1996, we had the electronic prescribing by the PASOK government in 2009-2010, we had the EEAY, which is my creation and to make it half New Democracy and all SYRIZA in the Ministry and they only beat me, not just let me go to my work, they beat me, they clambled to not pass, your parliamentary representative was there and headed with Mr Patoulis outside. Are we gonna lie? We'll tell the truth. We made EEAY, Mr. Kutrumanis did the KEPA and the government of Samaras - Venizelos took the country back to its recovery, which without economic recovery what pension systems, without development giving you something to give you. What are we talking about? We're kidding, we're not talking. This was the environment, it was a system of measures within which Mr.3863 was working and came in 2015, Mr. President, that you were here, so that SYRIZA would come, while the e-mail Hardouvelis had no word on insurance, not to apply Law 3863, to reopen the insurance, to bring three regulations, generously I am not saying, but which were voted on in the third memorandum. To increase contributions to both the main insurance and subsidiary funds by hitting people in the head. Friends of the people! And of course in 2016, the Katorugalou law. In comparison I will give three, four not more numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, pensioners, I said yesterday, EUR 1 000, with twenty-five years of insurance under the SYRIZA law, EUR 591, pensionable, with the law of today's government EUR 591, with our law of EUR 625 in the most difficult conditions and on the basis of the replacement rates. I don't have time, let's go to the highest. Forty years of pension insurance again 1,000 euros, 810 euros the Katrugalou Law, 885 euros the Brutsis Act, 960 euros the PASOK Act. There is no such thing as to say in all the figures for each case the difference is overwhelming in favour of us, but I said that this is not a method of discussing today. Our supremacy is obvious, but that's not how we discuss it. We will not give you such an example. I hear them, and I say well, who are these people here? Ten years ago, he wasn't here as a party? Five years ago? In the summer of 2015, he wasn't here? I hear the former Minister of Finance shouting - and I am surprised that he cannot hear too much from New Democracy. Maybe some places were overreacting, because that was the line, what good you're doing and what a nice law he's, he wouldn't have been better. The former Minister of Finance, however, I remember him on the show of Papadakis and the Ear every morning when we ruled to say that things would go without memoirs, because he knows, professor of finances. Oh, no. There are three very important issues - very serious, systemic issues for insurance. In the judgment, what were we taking care of? We knew unemployment. Then they were in percentages touching 20%. When I was called too much, and some of my companions called me psychopathic that these numbers are a figment of my imagination. It wasn't like that. Unemployment reached 27%. We said with Mr Kutrumanis that we should look after the retired person's employment. So, ladies and gentlemen, for a pension of more than EUR 1,007, there was beginning to be a ban, a reduction, a cut for the pensioner who was employed. What's the amount? When you spent the 1,000 euros going to a cut that involved all the 1,000 euros? No, just for the excess, for the extra. I'm talking about the employees. Until 1,007 you had nothing, over 1,007 you had, but over. And if you were a freelance professional, the cuts only existed if you exceeded the EUR 2,000 pension to be grounded. With the Kakrugalou law, this went 60% of all material to all pensioners retired with his own law, and you took 30% to all of them. That's not fair. This is not fair, because unemployment may have fallen to 16.5%, but remains high. With such high unemployment, you are not entitled to this arrangement to enter it here. It is a part of your system that we say is not right. I shall refer to the contributions, the last issue. You made those accusations. I'm a freelance professional, Mr. Brutsi, I know which one I choose. I have, however, to make the point that Kathimerini is making it to you today, for example, that if we go in the case of the largest contribution of EUR 560 for a man who has worked and paid for for forty years, then the amount that she has paid and waited to get back is 170,000 euros. To get 170,000 euros back, you have to work at least twenty years. For a free professional who doesn't get out early in retirement this age limit is hard to do. So there are issues here. Of course it's better regulation than the pre-existing one. There is no question of comparison, but it has weaknesses. Others put your weaknesses on the blocks that you push things that way. I told you what I can invoke a number for. Finally, why should the four very good professional funds that exist and have been set up in recent years... The pillars are three. The first one is the first one, the second one is occupational insurance, and the third is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u306	I shall conclude, Mr President. Everyone has taken more time, and I have a dentistry, you can give it to me and never talk again. There is private insurance that is not a matter of discussion for us. When you pass the subsidiary we have made, ladies and gentlemen, a fund, the EIF, to the EFCA under the single administration of which you are also increasing the number, you realise that the difficulties of the EFCA, an EFCA that has taken place in the air, will also be transferred there, there will be bureaucratic and administrative contamination. You have no housing, there are housing, because of course the institution will remain to a large extent, but the administration will be united. In addition to what creates difficulties for at least one of the following years, there is also the great question of occupational insurance. The four funds, ladies and gentlemen, which were created and created from our own time, we encouraged them, professionally go well, and join the ECA. We believe that this move is a move to abolish the second pillar. We have no confidence in that. We believe this is a move to abolish the second pillar. To be concentrating now that I close my speech, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the institutions accompanying the insurance system without EOPY would not have been possible to do anything in the field of health care and pensions if the interventions made had not been carried out. Without social compensation measures, as the ESS was, you will find it hard to go ahead with what you have set in the Constitution that you guarantee a decent living allowance, etc. Without the second pillar, occupational insurance, you don't go any further. You reduce the ability, the space, to move as far as possible and in their administrative capacity. Without a respected rate of replacement you do not guarantee the compensation of the system or a system based on tipping and State aid, so it has close legs and without a system of fair contributions, free from the logic of the tax system, you cannot proceed. We agree on this in part. I am simply raising a number of questions about the competence of the six-contribution system. I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen, with one final comment. I'm criticizing, but I want to be fair too. I have tried twice to explain to us the Minister if he cancels, abolishes the most criminal regulation that has been made by the previous government regarding taxation and the sums that every man gives for his insurance as a contribution. This concerned free professionals, self-employed people, farmers. That was a crime, that is, what you pay for contributions is actually taxed, it's income. We made a strong criticism together then and you told us in the House that you would abolish this. We made it hard once, twice. We have finally seen that this is being abolished and that is in a very right direction. It's a breath and a measure of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not strengthen this effort by the government with the law of insurance. Mr Mulkiotis, our rapporteur has been very detailed both in the Standing Committee and in the plenary on the rules of the law, to which we are critical. I have tried to transfer to the Chamber my experience from these years to the development of the insurance system. One thing I'm going to say, and that's what I'm going to do, as my most basic conversation. With the minds of the National Representation and at this stage, as they are made up of the majority of it and the Qualitative Anti-Policy, there is no salvation. Or we will move on to this most critical sector, which loses an entire economy, if it does not go well, not through consultation - one is ruling, but at least with the creation of a common basis for discussion, so that we know where we will start and where we will end, or another four years will come back here as wet cats, to make further changes, but with the usual course of things, to say the same nonsense on both sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u308	We have to come to an agreement. I have been here two days, I have heard most speakers and the Minister is here and I do not see that the political forces in the country have been mindful and have shown their willingness to see how the country should go. We are superfluous in the field of insurance. The numbers fully deserve us, and whatever the exiles say, the people who speak without consciousness, the people who speak only with party me, the country doesn't help it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u309	Next, Mr. Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece and immediately after Mr. Kegeroglou. In order for there to be no reactions, there was a parliamentary group of the Change Movement and Mr Kegeroglu had requested and did not speak while he was written. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Loverdo, can we agree on what? To agree on you to work, to get rid of hunger wages for years, with the work relationships of the jungle, to steal the funds, that is, your sweat, and to give you a pension with thirty years of work 600 euros. Consent what? On the other hand, unscrupulous wealth. To what, really, are you saying here to get in touch? That shipowners don't pay NAT and have a problem? The country that is the first on a merchant fleet in the world - is it or isn't it? - and NAT went bankrupt because shipowners don't pay contributions? What are you telling us? Consent what? War is classic, tough. And all these years, what you have been doing is empty the pocket of those who produce the wealth and inflate the wallets of those who are literally parasites in society. I didn't want to start like this. There's no consultation. There are the interests of capital, which all the governments have consistently served and the interests of the workers, who bleed, who build everything, who make modern computers, whatever you want, and steal the sweat and send them to hunger. I wanted to start with something else. The government assumes enormous responsibilities. The situation on the islands, Lesvos and Chios is explosive. If the crackdown doesn't stop, if the MATs don't leave, they don't stand anywhere anymore. All the people are out. He won't let them go anywhere anymore. If the plan for the conversion of islands into European Union prisons is not cancelled, then the situation will continue, because the people have the right to fight, because what triggers their fair reactions is your policy. Mr. Pecha's pleas of tranquility are challenging when the MATs act like forces of repression, as occupation forces. Do you have any idea what's going on? I will now tell you a fresh event. There were some episodes in Panormos, and there was an indiscriminate attack of the MATs. They closed the world in Panormos. The trains don't stop or he can come out. What's this? Where are we? How do we know? Ask you to find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u311	Where did they turn it off? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u312	In Panormos in and they won't let them out or stop the train getting them. What's on the subway? So where are we? Shall we continue? We say, first of all, that the islands should withdraw them and not be loaded on board two hundred and fifty Chefs from the port of Kavala, which is about to go to the islands. They won't be disembarked. That's what they tell us. The whole world is going to be mad at this kind of behavior. We're on. What do the MATs have to keep the GFCM, the sold-out leadership? What's the police? Guardian of Panagopoulos and other sold-outs all these years? What is he doing at the trade union movement conferences and, in fact, in a reasonable manner? What's he doing? Is that why the Greek people pay it? You used to send them to guard "HALYBURGIKI", the employers. Now you're sending them to the trade union movement. You're going to pay them very expensive, and I'm going to tell you something even more, it looks like that from Lesvos. The wood has two ends, you know, and once people get to the other end, we'll see where you stand. Swallow winds, you will reap storms. This law and order smashed out literally some or these repression forces will not pass. It's Greece, don't forget. Let's go to the draft law and what's heard. Mr. Brutsi's gone too. It's okay. Okay. It's okay, I'm fine. Anyway, he's got his ears shut, there's no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u313	There's a State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u314	He's the Undersecretary, all right. What we have heard these days by both the government and the other parties is truly amazing, unbelievable, on the basis of what we have experienced and on the basis of reality. They are a challenge and a mockery towards the working class, the workers and the populace, and I say again that they are the producers of wealth. If they stop, nothing moves. Isn't that true? They're challenging, why? I'll start from here. You on the left - in introductory words the word - but also everyone else, what do you say to them? Oh, beard. Forget what you had. Well, aren't you ashamed? I call it political. So what are you telling them? That because they took 1,200 euros and took them to 700, forget about them? Where's growth? Where are you saying he's gonna be all right for the workers? What are you telling them? Thirty years' work and will go to 600 euros? And you're happy? 'Forget them, then!'. That's what you're all saying. This is what SYRIZA, this and PASOK have done, and today the New Democracy. The attack will continue, of course. However, because a circle is temporarily closing, it is important to have a recapitulation - I talk to the workers, to those who see us - about what has happened all these years. Governments successively since 1990 - law Sifa - New Democracy, PASOK after, New Democracy - PASOK along with all the others - began to take back what they won with hard and often bloody struggles. What have they earned, really, that you speak and consider them responsible for the insurance system? What did they win with so many hard-core class matches? They won the tripartite funding, which was a compromise of the working class. Because he's not a tripartite. He's monomer. The workers pay. No one else. And we'll prove it why. Why was that insurance? It was a minimal return of stolen goodwill. They are taken over, exploited by employers, taken over by the state by taxation and then said that "you have had great conquests". Really, why is that, for example, in the tripartite? Two thirds are the workers. Typical to see it. And a third was supposed to be part of the job. It's all the workers. But let's take the two of us. One third was paid by the worker as a contribution. Yes or no? Another third put the state on it. And don't talk to us about a state. Where do you get the money from? 95% of taxes are from the working class and the popular layers, they indirectly financed their own funds, which you seized successively by all the governments. So don't talk about non-viability of the insurance system. That's the truth. The attack began in 1990 in Greece, starting with an experiment in Chile. What was the aim of the strategy line, which - I say again - served all the parties? Firstly, to reduce state participation. Why reduce state participation? To save money for where? In order to provide loan and unscrupulous subsidies to the large capital. Have you ever figured out how much they didn't pay businessmen, colossians for Greek data, for insurance funds? And what did we have? Debt enterprises, distilled industrialists and entrepreneurs. Yes or no? That's the reality. Secondly, reduce pensions. That was the line from 1990 onwards. Since 1992 it has started with the law of Sifa. Thirdly, reduce the employer's contribution. Poor poor guys! Even shipowners, even business profitable, reduce the contribution. What for? To make growth? Their own capitalist development is based on the robbery of the workers, on the intensity of the exploitation. That's how the profit comes out. It doesn't come out of scams and intelligence. Fourthly, open the way to private insurance. Who do they serve? These were capital requirements. They were made in the White Paper, which was 'black', 'get' and not 'white' or 'white' as the coalition then said. Black, black! It was the demands of employers in the European Union, but also in general, that they could have a cheaper labour force, so that they could obtain greater profits. This policy, which is capital, who served it? All of you! And let SYRIZA leave them smart. The same strategic line was moved. He ensured very well with the measures that he took just to continue this policy and the New Democracy comes to step on in all the previous ones, to continue and complete it. So crocodile tears are most. What was the vehicle? Sustainability. Mr. Loverdos said before a global element, 12 trillion is the deficit in social security systems. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how many trillions are parked in Caymans and elsewhere? How many trillions do they have a handful of people? Five people have as much as half the population of the earth. And the systems go bankrupt? Where do they get it from? That's where they take them off. Aren't you taking this into consideration? What do you count and bring us such evidence? To continue: Robbery, theft, thieves of the workers' sweat all governments. Why? The money's being robbed. There was before. From 1952 to 1983 the money paid by the workers where they went? Individual at ETVA and Bank of Greece. Adobe! Where were they being given? The "Bodosakis" and everyone else in loan and unscrupulous terms. That's how the most famous capitalist development took place. What did they put in? Did you ever ask? 10%, 12%, 14%. And that was a monkey. The other was loans, they were free loans from the workers' pocket and the mountains of Greece that gave them free to build their factories. After this robbery, the next one continued: Stock Exchange. 3.5 billion. That's all it is, isn't it? Where did they go? And then, in fact, you were all, except for the "Lacedonians" but the JV, and you even attacked us that we want to have frozen and do not use them on an investment stock exchange that has risen. Wasn't it then? And you blamed us. We said 'no, guarantee from the public and so on, not on the stock market, it is gambling and they will be lost'. Three and a half billion lost. Who's gonna pay for these? Were they working with the workers? Who's gonna pay for these? Two. Let's go to the crisis where the storm came. PSI. How much? 12 billion and put it on. Where'd that go? Was it the money of the workers, the funds? They were exclusively employees, not even state funding. Yes or no? Where'd you two go and talk, godfathers, where does people say? You gave them to the bankers, to recapitalize the banks. Yes or no? You in the free economy, when the bankers get billions, why don't they pay it, and the employee pays it when he can't pay his loan? That's where you gave them up, and without gum, you literally put the workers in charge that they were receiving large pensions. How much did these memorial years leave the worker's pocket? Over 100 billion! Give them back, let's see: Is it a viable insurance system or isn't it? Take from those who swim in the wealth that have the billions, put taxes. But where? You give them more and more discharges. It's 5% the net profit, the distributed profit. This is where the system looks like it's barbaric. 22% the employee, who has 9,000 euros a year of income. So, what do you cut for sustainability? Give it back. Two. Who told you that you had the right to do what you did? 40% to 50% reduction in pensions. And you're talking on top? The other 1,300 euros plus a third, fourteenth, was programmed in his life about what he's going to do and suddenly he was found with half the money and you're talking over? It was their money, wasn't it? They didn't work out? Blood and sweat. ENEverywhere: In construction, oxygen welding, hotels serve the diapers, in the textiles. Everywhere! This sweat was stolen and you reduce them 50% of pensions and remove thirteenth, fourteenth. Repeal of the minimum pension. On one night SYRIZA - not to say names and ask for the floor on the staff - where did he take the minimum pension? Tell me. From 712 to 403 euros. One night! You are also talking about two worlds, as Mr Igoumenides and Mr Brutsis said, who plays a ball with SYRIZA. What two worlds? You're in the service of capitalism and capitalism. What two? It's just, the manager's different. Another makes it wilder, another makes it softer. It's two worlds. Yeah. It is the world of capital, which you all support, and it is the world of the working class, of work, which is supported by the JRC. These are the two worlds, actually. You have served the other faithfully for all these years. And the government is coming today - and there is a fight here - and it says that pensions are not being reduced for the first time. Congratulations! Well, that's humiliating. You took them from 1,200, 1,500 to 500, 400, and now you say they don't get reduced but they're growing. So, what's your raise? Peanuts. Thirty years, we're talking again, to get a 60-euro pension. Thirty years. Our speakers have said so. They made them a leaf and a feather of all that. But here it is about cynicism and the sloppyness of the system. The vocabulary is exhausted. And I ask you the progress of society. Tell us, in 2020, with the explosion of technology, with all that is done, of labour productivity, etc., how does the grandchildren get a lesser pension than grandparents twenty and thirty years ago? Do you know what that looks like? This is a sign of the death sentence of the capitalist system, the deadlock and bankruptcy, which you defend and you say with great cynicism and raw "no, you will get less than your grandfather, who was in another era and in other situations". Only this example shows that your system is finished historically. And make sure that the working class finishes it. It will end it, and because it has experience now from both the danger and the construction of socialism, it will now stand firm on its feet everywhere. Now for the second matter. What's the system you bring? It's trixide. Where did it first apply? Chile. Pinochet system. And the street of Katorugalo is the same. Private companies now, private insurance, pensions for crustaceans and rewards, which will come out with reduced rates and everything else. I said a typical example. There's more. What are you talking about? Forty years, with a 1,000 euros a month, will you give him 100 euros? As they say in my village, don't tell me what the dress did to the aloni! And you're not embarrassed at all? What is it? Is that a zeal? The other guy's been working at the mine for forty years. Did you go one time? Did you go to Larco? Did you go to such a business? And will you give him a grand, if you give him, which forty years can't stand there, and you're proud of yourself above, instead of hiding in the sixty-eighth basement? You go tell those in the workplace. But where are you going to step on? Do you dare? You're also dating BSE and everyone else. We therefore say that the workers, beyond what they vote and what they do, must join in a social alliance. All together today to block - and they can do so - the attack they take and the one they take, because it does not end. As you say, Mr Brutsi, our system is'sustainable', I will ask a question without controversy. Well, wasn't it Sifa's viable? That's what Sifas used to say. Wasn't it Reppa's? I will bring you the introductory reports and the speeches. The Loverdou - Koutrumani and Brutsi system are also viable after SYRIZA etc. Everyone said: 'The reforms that we are doing now bring about a sustainable system'. They brought a viable system for capital and death for workers! So the trade unions should be regrouped on a class-based basis. To set aside the sold-out and redempted minority that has sat on the neck of the workers in GSEU and that you supported this whole majority, and SYRIZA, if he makes the hub and denounces from the Step. Today, you know, these are streams where they started and flow. These will become torrents and then rivers and scan capitalist barbarism. Be sure of that! Finally, we have a roll-call vote in principle. We call on the workers to put aside their political choices and to fight for their lives, for their future, for their children, by crushing and breaking up this policy that sends them to poverty and misery.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u315	Thank you. Mr. Voloudakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. In view of the dialogue on insurance and the adversarial from the standpoint of counter-population, ladies and gentlemen, one would say that it did not spend one day before the crisis. It is not only as if it had not been one day since the crisis, but as if we were not aware of a very basic difference that has been made since yesterday. I say that in relation to what Mr Pafilis just said about grandparents and grandchildren, etc. When the redistributive pension system started in that country, workers were far more than retired. Today the reverse is happening and demographic developments are moving towards an even worse situation. So we need to be serious here, because we are responsible for what is going to happen in the future and for the future generations who see this situation. During the last period of SYRIZA a request from society that sounded everywhere was to correct the distortions of the Katrugalo Law. The Katorugalou law has put in a tragic position one of the most productive parts of society, the free professionals, the self-employed, the farmers, who have given the message that the more you work, the more you produce, the more you will be disproportionately burdened with what you produce. As if there were an attempt to punish work and production. These distortions are now coming the law brought by Mr Brutsi, and he is actually correcting them. It gives free professionals the opportunity to choose a category of contributions, disconnects their contributions from income. Free professionals had reached taxes and contributions to pay more than 70% of their total income. That's not what's happening in any country. The same is true of farmers who have been in front of an unprecedented situation, linking their production and income from production to contributions. All this, together with SYRIZA's tax policy, had led to a real middle class crash. This has absolutely had to be corrected and corrected to a very large extent - and I will say what I mean - by this law. It ends here and SYRIZA's story that SYRIZA, you know, is with the many and the others are with the few. I don't know exactly how this story is formulated. Here we have a reform that comes without a reduction in pensions, with a reduction in contributions and with an increase in pensions in some cases, as is the case with the subsidiary. SYRIZA is now coming and I am reluctant to know what he calls the thirteenth pension - for the economy of the debate I will say so too - is not concerned with this - and misleads the citizens by hiding this. What was given in spring 2019, shortly before the elections, and which was actually lawfully given over the next few years, had a cost of about one billion, so that we would not get involved in the details. The same amount comes back with this law more forcefully, like 0.5% of GDP, pensions, insurance and social benefits. In other words, what SYRIZA, the friend of the people, gave, in another way, again to the insurance system and, indeed, to solve the problem created by the reductions in the Katrugalos Act that the S.H.E. He judged unconstitutional. And one wonders: the financial constraints agreed by SYRIZA, the government of SYRIZA. The Council of State comes in and puts an additional expenditure of one billion to our budgetary system. And SYRIZA knows that and he knows that he's even legislated another billion. And it also has budgetary constraints, 3.5% of the surplus that it has agreed. Where would that money come from? Either he would continue to give what he calls a thirteenth pension or he would satisfy the decisions of the Council of State. One of the two. Both can't do it. This law also provides for a reduction in employee contributions by 0.9%. It is part of the total 5% reduction, which has to come and is in our original programme. But here, Minister, there is also an injustice that remains and must be corrected. It's done - if you want - and more intense because it looks like what's going on. In the health sector, we now have free professionals with EUR 55 or 66 for most people, at the same time as for employees we have 7% of their income. This is unfair, Minister, and you need to correct it. The permanent mortgages of the tax system and of the insurance system in Greece are the employees and especially the private sector. That's what you need to see. And you need to see it in combination with the general - if you like - in the context of the viability of the system. We must create conditions for growth. And the insurance must be conceived within this framework. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need another minute, Mr. President. The capital pillar is still missing. The third pillar, the capitalisation system, is what will facilitate growth conditions. Firstly, because it creates in all the existing countries a set of funds that finance development. Especially now that the banks are in the situation they are in, this pillar is important and in this respect it has not been discussed sufficiently. We must, however, say that this pillar will also help from another point of view and is necessary for another reason. We have some assumptions in the insurance for the growth rate of the national product, which are the ones. I did not see the opposition judging them, because it wants to say 'give more', as if it hadn't been one day since the 2009 crisis. This kind of predictions especially when we arrive by 2070, are always in the human systems insecure. We therefore need to find ways to strengthen state funding, which cannot be considered as being given such a long time, especially when we have the public debt which since 2032 is being reinstated every year with its interest rate-free instalments. This side of the capitalisation pillar must enter the debate, because it is also necessary for justice between generations. Currently in Greece younger generations, workers, younger pensioners, are wronged to support the system that mainly pays for older generations. This cannot go away, because the younger worker, the younger insured person feels that he pays without going to retire. We need to see this. Take a look at it, Minister. And I would like to conclude by saying that in one of the tables in the proportional study you are tabling in the House, the country's tragedy is reflected. We are now ten million seven hundred thousand and the forecast for 2070, on which this system is based, is that we will be eight and a half million. Nearly two million are falling the population of the country. What we are doing, what we are doing, what we are doing, what we are doing, we must do, bearing in mind this, to do what we can to reverse this trend and ensure that we build a system that allows our country to live against those conditions that have been created over the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u318	I have seen an amendment from the Ministry of Finance, Mr President, and I shall start with it, because it concerns an important issue of arbitrary and abusive practice of the state, namely the Ministry of Finance. You remember the retrospective statements made in relation to retrospectives submitted to pensioners' accounts. They were 2013. This use was phased out at the end of 2019. And as it was deleted, the Treasury act was now abusive. Without submitting an amending statement from the retired person, the Ministry of Finance or the AIA - I don't know, the Minister should tell us - made an amendment on behalf of the retired person and automatically acquired the right to carry out an audit in the year. If it did not, of course, on 31-12-19 all fines and all that had to do with this retroactive imposition of taxes and levies would have been dropped. And why am I saying that? Because really if he wanted to keep the lawfulness of the Ministry of Finance he had to have checked on one of the pensioners and on the basis of control to make an individual act to charge the extra tax to be legal. It has been completely abusive, therefore, to this practice, which I do not know what it reminds of. I don't mean to say it reminds of other times. I'll say it's something unprecedented. It's never happened before. And of course, he is now coming with an amendment to tell them that: children I will not have you to pay at once, but in May. You'll pay by May 29th. And don't give them any doses or anything else. In any case, it is not the issue of the payment of instalments. It is a matter of state conduct toward the citizen in a way that is not appropriate to a modern European state. If, gentlemen, you couldn't do your job, you hadn't been able to do your individual audits, and the consequences for the State’s loss of income. Not retrospectively come to legislate to cover the abused, illegal practices you do. Of course you will suffer the consequences, because these will reach the audience. They're not gonna stop. In particular, the taxpayers who know well - because others don't know - what you did, I think they'll take you to the courts to the end. There was a lot of talk here about worlds, first, second, third, fourth, world. And, of course, I hear the partners from the JRC, who, when the years, decades are over, come back to support PASOK policies. Good - he says - the 1983 PASOK law that put the money on the insurance funds with interest. He said it now. Then he hadn't voted for it. So he comes back to say that the Reppa Act is good or L.3863. He wasn't the one we wanted, but he was good and he's worse. And why didn't you support him then? So we come to have a really debate demanding honesty from everyone. There is a need for honesty. The European social model that works in the single market, in the world that we all have - one world exists, not two or three - is the best possible at the moment. That is why everyone wants to enjoy this European social model. That is why we have the movements of peoples towards Europe. That is why we have a great deal of anxiety if, in the context of dealing with the economic crises and problems, we are able to maintain this European social model. This also concerns Europe and each country separately. What perceptions are there to support this model and strengthen it? There is a conception that says: 'Don't touch it - it was expressed - and wherever you arrive'. I wish it would fall into the cliff. There is another conception of the European People's Party, which was implemented in Greece and by SYRIZA, which says: 'I cut social benefits'. SYRIZA says he also puts high taxes and, where this story brings out every professional, every man who fights to survive, but at the same time wants a secure socially secure system. There is also a conception which says that we can also through growth, but also with specific policies, strengthen and ensure the sustainability of the insurance system, which must be fair to the insured, to those who pay contributions and to those who have to enjoy decent pensions. Those who pay contributions must not be drowned. They mustn't get hunger pensions for those who paid years to have a hunger when they arrive at the third age. How is that possible? But we're doing this with Law 3863. With the experience of the crisis, with the need for corrections that had to have been made many years ago, but also with a strong rule of social justice, we have created Law 3863, which was indeed an answer to the crisis, but also the need to reform and strengthen the sustainability of a fair insurance system. At the same time, we have put tripartite funding back on the table, not from taxation, but from overtaxation of citizens, as it was in previous years. Because that was a distortion. We were entitled to pensions from the tax of the worker, the craftsman, the violator, everyone. We put the tripartite funding in a different dimension. What was that different dimension? But the Solidarity Fund Act. First of all, growth gives a socio-security area which strengthens the insurance system within the framework of the tripartite funding. And we talked about hydrocarbons, which would have already yielded fruit if there were no suspension. You remember the first half of SYRIZA and the suspension of all procedures that had to do with the use of hydrocarbons. Is that enough? No, of course, that is why we have studied, evaluated and worked out the modern proposal for tripartite funding by using 50% of the funds from the Supreme Court, making use of public property for development and the socio-security system. It must be changed - a condition - that foreign administration overturns this shameful agreement on the country, that of Mr Tsipras for a hundred years the granting of the public property through the Supreme Court. She was shameful and continues to follow a party and a former Prime Minister who signed it. We must overturn it, not for any other reason, but because it is a national need for public property to go through Greek administration and of course to be used for the public interest, for growth, for new jobs and for the social security system. This is our modern proposal for the tripartite funding. This is where we want to hear from Mr Pafilis who has spoken about the tripartite funding in general and indefinitely. For the specific proposals we have tabled, does it agree? At the same time we tabled four, five symbolic, important proposals in relation to the bill. First sentence: Re-allocation of a normal 15th pension through the FBI. Yes, the conditions have grown. It can - and the system is sustainable - walk this restoration of extreme social injustice in relation to insured pensioners. Minimal guaranteed income: Constitutional legislation was introduced and is not about the allowance, as they poorly put into the last law. The minimum guaranteed - it says - income of the Constitution - is the allowance for extreme poverty. No, gentlemen, it concerns all citizens with low incomes and the low pensioners. Therefore, in order to implement the Constitution's requirement for minimum guaranteed income for micro-retired people. Lower pension: It was abolished, as has been said before, by the signature of Mr Haikalis. Do you remember him? That ministerial decision was made. They made him a State Secretary to sign that ministerial decision at the request, of course, to proceed. Abolition of the mechanism to increase age limits, which made sense when the age limits were lower, when they were sixty-two, sixty-three, sixty-five, to adjust. Now that he's sixty-seven, it doesn't make any sense. It must be abolished. Removal of the solidarity levy for the subsidiary funds or if you insist on the unification you want to make, six to be four. We have tabled - fourteen, I think - proposals regulating issues and dealing with many problems. Because of time I don't mention them. In closing, there was indeed a need to overturn this disgrace of the so-called Katrugalos law. We must say here clearly that the government was in agreement with us on this. He came and kept both the heart and the spirit of the law of Katrugalo. It has made repairs, particularly with regard to contributions which we very much agree on, but has not touched the hard core of the law. That is why we need real reform in the socio-security system for a sustainable system that its contributions will not drown young people who fight, work and must contribute, but at the same time give decent pensions to retired people, to all people with a minimum standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and three educational attendants from the 1st Gymnasium of Kilkis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u320	Mr Kegeroglu, the biggest reform that this insurance brings is the protection of the citizens and not the increase in public revenue, which was intended by the previous insurance reform by Mr George Katrugalos. The insurance system cannot be tax, ladies and gentlemen. And yet you, of SYRIZA, were not only left in this, but you also imposed dozens of new taxes, which literally dismantled the middle class. You have built an insurance policy that is, in fact, tax, because such as taxes and contributions have become a percentage of income, which has often been close to 40% yet. Yeah, well, you heard, 40 percent of the income just for insurance contributions. Thus, along with taxes and other obligations, the citizen was able to give 70% to 80% of his income in the state, without any compensation, without any public health. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not social protection, it is neither tax policy. It's a confiscation of the property of Greek citizens. And I ask you: What benefits did SYRIZA give the citizens in exchange for all this? It came from an election and baptized the social dividend, a third pension, if at the last minute the pensioners were to have their vote. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not mocking pensioners. The insurance bill we are debating today is the first one, after twelve years of not imposing any reduction in pensions. And not only that, but we also anticipate significant increases for those who have been insured for more than thirty years. We are not mocking the insured by baptizing the meat 'fish', presenting the confiscation of income as a relief, as SYRIZA did. We respect citizens' incomes, we encourage entrepreneurship too. That is why we are disconnecting insurance contributions, both from income and from the years of the profession, so that everyone can choose a free insurance category, depending on his possibilities and expectations, so that he is not afraid to declare all his incomes in order to avoid paying high insurance contributions. Colleagues of counter-population, you voted for an insurance policy that encouraged tax evasion. You knew it and you did it consciously. But that is not a rule of law. Today, by disconnecting contributions from income, we are strengthening the Greeks' tax conscience. And most importantly, we give great breath to professionals to finally develop entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece of the future must be based first of all on the new generation, so that young people can stay and be divulged here. To return all those who left in the years of the crisis. We, when we say lower insurance contributions, mean it, without asterisks, without a retroactive charge. We support young professionals in practice. To be able to increase their income. To be able to offer themselves. But that's not all we live in. We are putting an end to the injustices of the former system. Finally, double contributions to the blocks when the free worker is also employed. End of minimum time of insurance for the single. Finally, the contribution of disabled people to EEAS. We support workers and pensioners. For employees, it will take fifty days to work for insurance and health care, instead of seventy-five days that you so-called humanists have imposed. For self-employed persons, it will be two months of insurance instead of three months of insurance currently in force. For the purpose of establishing the pension entitlement, there will be a thousand days instead of a thousand five hundred to date. We also support retired people who want to continue working. These pensions will now be reduced by 30% rather than 60% in force. The most important thing is that we bring back for working mothers the 50% discount on insurance contributions. This is how we strengthen female entrepreneurship. So we give another motive to women who have or are thinking about having children. Now we're going to the notorious FBI. We've received an E.F.K.A. in total chaos. Even today, thousands of insured people want to join the hundred and twenty instalments and are waiting because their debts were not even in electronic form. We received an EIF that did not impose legal contributions for two years. This mess is finally over. With the new electronic ECA, we end the suffering of the citizens. From the digitisation of the services, everyone will benefit. Persons insured by the direct electronic receipt of attestations and certificates and pensioners from speeding up the award of pensions. Today, for the award of the main and supplementary pensions, the only one also needs three different employees from three different agencies. With the new electronic ECA we put an end to delays and bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time in the history of the country where an insurance bill is accompanied by an integrated proportionate study. And, indeed, a proportionate study confirming the viability of the system for the next fifty years. For us, the insurance system must be fair, sustainable and stable and must not constantly require changes and reforms. Sustainable doesn't only mean money to the funds. It also means reasonable insurance contributions that everyone can raise, without threatening their income, without affecting their professional activity. Insurance contributions must also be sustainable for businesses. We believe in an insurance policy with a developmental and social sign. That's our policy. No politics for a few. Policies for all. And that's exactly what you don't like, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Whenever we go to do something good for the country, you get up and spoil the world. You live in a world of your own. You cannot accept that Greece is finally changing. You cannot accept that we are finally going forward with a look at a better future for all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Butsikaki. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the electronic application of the ADA has now opened for the new fixed regulation of the twenty and forty-eight instalments for tax debts. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill has a reform mark. It comes back to make the Katorugalou law, which essentially gave insurance contributions of a tax-suppressive nature. This is the first law on insurance linked to a proportionate study confirming the viability of the insurance system by 2070. Mostly, however, this is the first insurance bill that does not contain pension reductions. On the contrary, there is provision for an increase in basic and supplementary pensions. It brings significant changes, such as the abolition of the connection between insurance contributions and incomes, which was an extreme choice of the previous government, a choice that was integrated into the absurdity of overtaxation. This bill confers the right to free choice of insurance contributions on freelance professionals, farmers and self-employed persons and to complete disconnection of income insurance contributions. I would like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, which, on the basis of its content, can bring together the broad consensus of all the political forces. The first article of the amendment states that the payment of tax credits issued up to 31/12-2019 and on the basis of data available to the tax administration for remuneration levied retroactively in 2013 is due on 29 May instead of 28 February 2020. It is an amendment that faces a real problem. Indeed, after the cross-checks carried out by the tax administration, the following problem arose. A large proportion of retroactive pensions were collected in 2013 by the beneficiaries, but did not include these amounts in their tax declaration. Therefore, after cross-checking the AIA issued administrative determinations for these cases. Among the clearings that took place were certain tax-sets issued despite the fact that these incomes had been included by the taxpayers in statements submitted. Such cases will self-evidently be corrected by the tax administration. However, it is a question of making such mistakes to be corrected by an immediate procedure which will make it easier for the citizen. And the solution will be given by means of legislation on the regulatory framework of the tax procedure in a bill from the Ministry of Finance to be voted on in the next few days. We are therefore introducing a comprehensive solution to facilitate citizens and we predict that this solution will also be applied in the case of retrospectives. A further category of cases will be dealt with through the new procedure. It concerns our fellow citizens who have received their first pension late, in a period later than the one in question. The new procedure will enable the tax administration to make a corrective action in accordance with the provisions already in force on the basis of the information to be provided to the competent ILO in order to ensure that the relevant amounts are taxed on the use to which they actually relate and not total in the year in which they were collected. Finally, I would like to inform you that, on our legislative initiative, there will be a significant reduction in the imposed increases on pensioners who have been late in their first pension for their unreported retrospectives, and it is considered that the relevant fines will not be imposed. The second article of the amendment provides that the values of the emissions of carbon dioxide of vehicles for the calculation of the registration fee will continue to be taken into account on the basis of the standard test procedure of the new European driving cycle by 31 December 2020. As from 1 January 2021, the values of the emissions of carbon dioxide from vehicles will be taken into account, in accordance with the globally harmonised light-vehicle test procedure, from which new and increased values arise in relation to the previous method of the new European driving cycle. The previous method is based on laboratory conditions and the new method calculates them on the basis of the actual conditions. As you all know, the price of carbon dioxide emissions is a factor that affects and primarily forms the registration fee and in some cases passenger car traffic charges. If the new method is implemented without adjusting the corresponding carbon dioxide scales used for the calculation of the registration fee and traffic charges - for some cars - it will lead to disproportionate charges for new cars classified as of 1 March 2020. The amendment gives an extension to the use of the previous method until 31 December 2020. This ensures that there will be no increase in the registration fee or in the traffic charges for vehicles to be registered in 2020. At the same time, with the extension given, there will also be the necessary time to formulate a method of matching carbon dioxide prices, as the two methods show, in order to avoid disproportionate charges on prices and on the end of cars. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that these reasonable arrangements will have a broad consensus and that they will be voted on by all the wings of this House. I think, however, that the insurance bill should also be dealt with not in terms of sterile party criticism but in terms of the future. Because, in fact, the forecasts contained in it and in the proportionate study ensure the viability of the insurance system for fifty years. The New Democracy Government does not manage, implement deep and bold reforms. It moves on to major changes, gives solutions to problems that come from the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u323	Mr Nicholas Andreas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in many years in our country's modern parliamentary history, the Greek state has been facing the key issue of the social security system through a bold legislative initiative. A system that has been the subject of party controversy over the years and of constant changes from the early years of its establishment. A system that has been complex, ineffective and unfair to many of our fellow citizens. A system that had generally reached its limits, the limits of the strength of the Greek economy, the limits of the resistance of the Greek society. In the face of this reality, the New Democracy's party was set up in a very clear way to create a new, innovative and sustainable insurance policy that defends the interests of the insured and safeguards the rights of the next generation of workers in the country. A new insurance, which will make all Greeks believe in the public good of social security again. Because what our citizens are asking us is for them to be able to know that their contributions will not be lost and that at the end of insurance they will be able to receive a pension that will enable them to live with dignity. You are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that, as an official opposition, we then had a hard criticism of the problems and the deadlocks created by the Katorugalou Act to all the insured in the country with replacement rates that did not reasonably return the contributions paid. A law that created a stimulus to stay in this system, while at the same time exterminating and punishing everything that was creative. In particular, with regard to the one million four hundred forty thousand free professionals, self-employed and farmers, the Katrugalou law has produced devastating results. He consciously imposed unpleasant contributions to scientists and free professionals, kneeling and discouraged the most productive and creative part of the Greek economy, while strengthening tax evasion and tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal by the New Democracy Government has a completely different philosophy. Our aim is to move to the new digital age in the standards of all developed countries. In this direction we are moving towards broad organisational and administrative integration through the creation for the first time of a national insurance institution, while maintaining the accounting autonomy of individual sectors, namely the main pension, subsidiary insurance and one-off provision. In this way, we guarantee more efficient and faster services to the citizens, and for the first time, digital pensions are introduced in the history of our country's insurance system, which is an ingenious innovation and reform. We are particularly proud that digital pensions are also being implemented by our own government, thus giving a solution to its pathogen over a million outstanding pensions that the SYRIZA government inherited us. But the aim is, at the same time, to restore justice for those who have worked most and to strengthen pension payability, by dealing with their time-consuming illnesses yesterday. In this direction we are implementing our current reform initiative, based on the tripartite of simplicity, flexibility and freedom of choice. So our new insurance system is simpler than ever. A system that goes ahead with the complete decoupling from the years of insurance and the well-known classes of the past, complete decoupling from income, decoupling insurance from tax, decoupling from the increase in minimum wages, when insurance contributions are deducted from taxable income, as well as from the universal expansion of special welfare and favourable treatment for all new entrants in the production process. From now on this provision does not apply only to young doctors, lawyers and engineers, as was the case until now, through low contributions, in the first five years of their working life. Moreover, a free trader will not be forced by the new law to return the difference in the reduced contributions and this is another big difference compared to the previous law. We believe deeply in the new generation of scientists and we are well aware that only if we support young professionals and scientists in practice, especially in the early years of entry into the labour market, we will be able to create a competitive human potential on which the economic development of our country will be based. We are well aware that only if we support the new generation of workers will we not create a new generation of unemployed people. However, the new insurance is also a system based on the principle of absolute flexibility and freedom to choose insurance contributions. Freelance professionals, self-employed scientists, as well as those involved in the primary sector, will be free to choose the category of insurance contributions according to the financial capacity of the insured person and the expectation of a future pension. That is how we allow the citizens themselves to shape their own insurance horizon. Ladies and gentlemen, after eleven whole years, this bill is the first insurance bill, which has no reduction in pensions, and I think this fact marks a great deal for the current government in terms of social policy, as many pensioners themselves have seen in the years of the economic crisis shrinking dramatically. The result of the past's failed policies. And, of course, we all remember that SYRIZA's insurance law has bound all pensioners to the personal difference in their pensions, including this term in the country's international obligations. With this bill not only will there be no reduction, but there will also be increases. So all today's and tomorrow's workers in Greece who will have thirty years of insurance will see with the new law higher benefits. At the same time, the servants in the selected forces of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, such as our pilots, who daily guard Thermopylae, will not only be affected, but will instead be protected. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] As Parliamentary spokesman for the Ilias Prefecture, I am well aware of the problems and concerns of the primary sector in our wider region. Since this year with the new system, the insurers of the former OGA will be able to choose one of the six total insurance categories, not related either to income or to the years of insurance. At the same time, health care contributions remain stable, while pensioners, who continue to be unemployed in their professional sector, will not have any cuts in their pensions. With particular sensitivity we protect the country's agricultural sector, recognising the crucial development role it has to play, highlighting the productive reconstruction of the sectors. This is also the case with this reform. At the same time, we take care of the sensitivity that needs to be seen to protect people with disabilities. In this context, it is recommended that the e-ECA address for petitions on SME issues be established with a view to enhancing the efficiency of the administration. At the same time, we allow the parent, the husband, the brother of the disabled member of the family whose pension has been suspended because of the work of the disabled member, to be retired if the conditions for retirement are met. We are thus inspiring a new anthropocentric function and upgrading the quality of life of disabled people. Ladies and gentlemen, with the current insurance reform we are putting an end to the dazzling and dead-end regulation of the old system. So we enclose a large part of the economy and form a new insurance system that is simple, fair and above all rewarding for everyone. Our aim is to make the Greeks trust the social security system again and to be able to feel that life's labors will not be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to announce two permits. MEP Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28-2-2020 to 2-3-2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u326	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, MP Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanon seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u327	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Panaghi Kappatos has the floor from New Democracy, MP of Kefalonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the insurance system is still a pre-election commitment of the Government. The Greek Parliament for the first time, after more than ten years, passes a law that increases pensions and has retroactive effect since October 2019. It votes for a law that frees the free professionals and abolishs the unfair law of Katrugalos which has so much damaged the most dynamic and productive part of Greek society. It passes an insurance bill, which for the first time is accompanied by a full proportional study, both for main and supplementary pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill is characterised by the concept of freedom, which is a guide to the government's political choices. The citizen now has the freedom, through a flexible system, to choose his insurance class every year and pay every year all the money he can. We are putting an end to the logic that insurance is a second tax that is economically kneeling the citizen and punishing the work. The amount of insurance contributions from the years of insurance, income and insurance is decoupled. In conjunction with the tax bill already passed, the government has fulfilled its first stage of the election commitment to reduce the disproportionate burden that the middle-class and the free professionals in SYRIZA's years of governance have been called upon to raise. The insurance bill is yet another link in the government's effort to establish electronic services in our lives and across the range of relations between the state and citizens, which abolish the tails and suffering of citizens. Through the creation of the National Social Security Agency, a simple system arises for all insured persons that improve the administrative and organisational structure of the insurance and pension institution in an organisation. The insurance system shall be digitalised and the electronic award of pension and attestation shall proceed. With digital pension we are trying to put an end to an anachronistic system that troubles citizens and lets them wait for years until their pension and one-off is issued. Young insured persons have been given the possibility of low contributions for five years, without the Katrugalos Act providing for interest-free reimbursement of these reduced contributions over the five-year period. Subsequent insurance reduces the required days of insurance to the last employment agency by a thousand five hundred in a thousand, thereby giving more of our fellow citizens the opportunity to find insurance time. Persons with disabilities shall be established a special address for the settlement of their issues to the ECA and shall provide for favourable measures for their families. The bill also contains special favourable provisions for members of the primary sector, such as farmers and farmers. Finally, pensioners are motivated to continue to work if they want to do so, while employees are provided for a reduction in their contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is dealing with social justice, increases pensions and reduces taxes, strengthens horizontally and non-discriminatoryly on the basis of Greek society such as the birth allowance, in practice disproves the election cries for the social state. Not only does the government today weaken the protection net for those of our fellow citizens, but it strengthens it with targeted measures. These are measures that meet the challenges of our time and not the failures of the past. Mostly, however, the government has restored confidence in the Greek economy internally and abroad. All this is achieved thanks to the government's development policy, which will pay more and more to the four-year-olds for the benefit of all Greek citizens. The bill we are debating today is the solid basis on which the government will again legislate in the future in order to fully reform the insurance system. The challenges for social security remain great and in order to address the consequences of phenomena such as demographics, a new logic and new social security policies will be needed. The insurance bill is a reform with broader dimensions. It is not just a bill that will improve the lives of Greek citizens today. It is also a bill concerning future generations, it feeds the growth potential of the economy and it feeds it back. It is a national need to improve the macroeconomic prospects of the economy and strengthen the country's position at international level and in the crucial economic negotiations. For these reasons, I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, too. We will continue with New Democracy and Mr. Dimitrios Ciridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this House is currently discussing an insurance bill dealing with a number of problems caused by the insurance counter-reformation of the Katrugalo Law, especially the proclamation of its fundamental provisions as unconstitutional by the Council of State. The main problem of counter-reformation, as has been repeatedly explained and in this debate, was its extreme redistributiveity, transforming insurance into a second tax, strengthening tax evasion and discourageing savings and capital accumulation, since it clearly disconnected insurance contributions from the amount of pension benefits a pensioner could expect. A characteristic example of this tax evasion was, of course, a vertical increase, and this has not been said, and we must have this in mind, in the creation of IKE, private capital companies, by the free professionals, in order to avoid unreasonable insurance contributions as private individuals provided for by the Katrugalou Act. We still have to see the question of wage earners. As Minister of State at the Samara Government, Mr Brutsis had made a reduction in employee contributions. I am sure, as we have promised, that we will proceed to alleviate wage earners' work to make work more attractive in the context of reducing unemployment bravely. The second feature of the bill is to strengthen and complete the digitisation so that we can get out of the huge delays we have today in the pension performance and acquire every insured on-line tab where he can see his pensions in order to restore, as far as possible, the pressured confidence of the citizens, the insured and the pensioners in the system. However, I now come to the criticism of the Opposition in the bill, to say that it is a waste of time to the extent that it is based on significant misunderstandings. I have heard Mrs Ahtsoglou, the main SYRIZA rapporteur, and the other SYRIZA Members, who reiterate that the infinite reduction in the pension expenditure leads to a reduction in pensions. There is no pension reduction. We need to make that clear. The main thing, however, is that we should have learned that the increase or reduction in the budget for pensions does not lead to an automatic increase or a reduction in pensions. After all, in the years of the crisis, we have had a great increase in the budget grant to insurance, with a dramatic reduction in pensions and a overthrow of the lives of millions of our pensioners. And this, of course, has to do with the great increase in the number of pensioners and the reduction in income from insurance contributions due to unemployment and the reduction in average wages. Therefore, and vice versa, the reduction in the minimum budget subsidy can lead to an increase in pensions to the extent that we have a reduction in unemployment and an increase in average wages, as the economy is getting ahead. Continuing this basic misunderstanding by people who handled pensions all these years...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u331	Where did you get those math?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u332	Please. What's up with you all of a sudden? People will judge. Respect what he says. Keep going, Mr. Courides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u333	I will repeat that, Mr President, so that everyone can understand it. We have had a great increase in the budget subsidy to the pension fund at the same time as a dramatic reduction in pensions, although we have increased the subsidy, because we have had a great fall in the contributions due to unemployment and average wages and an increase in pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u334	So the sum.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u335	Don't answer that. Mr. Courides, don't have a dialogue, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u336	So now, because of the increase in average wages and the reduction of unemployment, we have more revenue in the system and better pensions. Continuing this basic misunderstanding by people who handled the pension has to do with the famous viability of the system. It should be understood that the insurance system is sustainable in so far as it is financed and even generously from the budget. More than half of the pensions are paid today by tax revenue and not by insurance contributions. The total grant from 2000 up to now of the State towards the insurance is equal to more than 3/4 of the total government debt of the country of 330 billion. In so far as demographic pressure outweighs any reduction in unemployment and an increase in average wages, our choice, as they warn us, will be between either cuts or an increase in state subsidies, which will reduce the possibility of exercising, as has already been done, any other social policy in other areas, but also the development policy we need since more than 1/3 of tax revenue is aimed at supporting pensions, thus unbearable high taxes. It is therefore necessary to move forward - and we have not done so at all these two days in this debate - in another debate, as the New Democracy has courageously outlined and in its election plans, but as the law that we are discussing here, which strengthens the capitalist features of the system by linking contributions to pension pay. SYRIZA, as a force of yesterday, of maintenance, of failures, of post-multiple pathogenesis, terrorizes with Pinochets. But the introduction of a capital pillar, as Germany, Sweden and many other European countries, which face much less problem than us, cannot be lamented with screaming if we want to be serious about this debate. In addition to the demographic situation, there is the huge question of investment, which is linked to what type of insurance we have. Our country is facing a huge investment deficit. They are now in about 1/3 of what we had in 2008. Our country has the lowest percentage of investment as a percentage of GDP in Europe. The total investment gap exceeds 100 billion over the last decade. Investments today continue to fall short of depreciation, so the total investment in our country continues to decline, reducing productivity, reducing the competitiveness of the economy and destroying its development prospects. So we need to see the investments. The investment lever throughout the world is linked to national savings, which is largely caused by an insurance policy, which has not so far done ours. Finally, we must restore confidence and social justice to my generation and to the younger generations who have been called upon to pay for the broken ones. Because of demography, due to investments, because of the restoration of injustices and confidence, we need to strengthen the capitalising features of the system. So, as our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said last Sunday, we are in the first phase of a brave overall reform effort in a fair and developmental way of a problem that has led us or, in any case, has contributed to the country's bankruptcy and has set us on a low flight. I would like to congratulate Minister Brutsi and his working group on the work that has been done in a very short time, bringing this reform, which we shall be delighted to vote for and beg him once again to see an issue, which we discussed before plenary, because there is also the representative of the Ministry of Finance here, which is directly concerned with the equalisation of qualifications in the acquisition of so-called proof of professional expenses with the blocks so that there is justice against the free professionals in so far as they cover their insurance contributions, because the contributions have been introduced for a year by the Katorugalu law and are maintained today, while we have moved to review for the rest of the free professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, too. Mr Vassilis Vassilis Vassiliades from New Democracy and beautiful Pella.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system was a time bomb in the years of postpopulation and was another weak link of the Greek economy, when it was found in the warp of the crisis. Much is the lessons learned from the experience of the crisis. More and more less. I think, however, that we can all agree on the importance of the sustainability of the insurance system not only for our generation but also for the next ones. My generation at least perceives this as it experienced and still experiences the consequences of bad and irresponsible political decisions over the past decades. The draft law we are debating today is another commitment by the New Democracy to a substantial reform of the civil relationship with the state, an honest relationship with a long-term horizon. It is therefore important that, for the first time, an insurance bill is accompanied by a full analogy study of main and ancillary pensions confirming the viability of the system by 2070. In my view, two are the basic positives of the philosophy of this system. It's simple, and it's fair. Simple as it has been structured around achieving a 30-year-old insurance policy, it reduces procedures and bureaucracy, it abolishes the insurance obligation for the block if the employee is at the same time employed. Legally, because the rates of pay are significantly strengthened, the contributions are dissociated from income, years of work and the minimum wage, while the national pension remains the same. Insurance ceases to be another tax mechanism. In particular, for freelance professionals, the new system of insurance contributions is based on the principles of freedom and flexibility. Six insurance categories are created, of which each insured person can choose per year on the basis of each programme and each category leads to an increasing amount of pension with full knowledge throughout the life of insurance and with continuous dynamic information. It is, however, fair, and because it takes account of young professionals in general, not just some branches, and provides for reduced contributions for the first five years of insurance. It also takes into account the vital to the Greek economy as a primary sector. It recognises the importance and sensitivity of the insurance relationship, such as farmers, farmers, fishermen and the state. It enables Greek pensioners to reintegrate into the production process, especially those of the primary sector. It shows sensitivity to the specificities of disabled persons and their families. In the upgraded e - ECA, a Reporting Arrangement is set up with the aim of upgrading services to our vulnerable people. Finally, with regard to e-ECA, which I mentioned earlier, an important administrative and organisational integration of the insurance system is sought to reduce pension periods. This is the one million outstanding cases left behind by the previous government, a problem that many households experience on a daily basis. In conclusion, Mr President, this is an insurance law which, after many years, contains no reduction in pensions. On the contrary, it provides for increases in the wrongdoers of the former system, in a fair and clear way, without hiding anything behind demonistic provisions and specific accusations. It is an insurance system which encourages workers to join and to remain, and after thirty years, a system that is of interest to everyone. I call on the House to support this profound reform bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to Kavaliotissas, Mr Sultana Eleftheriadou, by SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Article No.3126/2003: ‘Priminal Responsibility of Ministers’, as in force on 26-2-2020: Criminal court proceedings against Mr.Michalis Chrysochoidis, George Floridis, George Vulgarakis, Anastasios Papalegura, Christos Papoutsis, Alexis Tsipras, Olgas Gerovasili, Michael Kalogros, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Domnas Michailidou and Ephis Ahtsoglou. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many spokesmen of the New Democracy with a great deal of pride say in their speeches and indeed congratulate Mr Brutsis and his group on the fact that the bill under discussion is a product of procedural proper legislation. In a sense, the New Democracy Members are rightly pleased about this, as you are used to us - and especially Mr Brutsi - to legislate in secret, with last minute amendments and an act of legislation. Obviously, the New Democracy Members themselves are ashamed of that and they are now getting better. I would like to point out, however, that it is not enough to follow the procedure. The activation of the social dialogue with both opposition parties and social organizations and trade unions should also have some effect. The government should listen to the concerns, the comments and arguments of both the Observatory and the actors and be prepared to accept at least one of them. The individual government should, when it comes to issues such as insurance, ensure that they are the product of social dialogue. On the contrary, Mr Minister, you have stated very clearly that you will not change anything from your bill, you will not accept any amendment to the opposition parties, nor to the trade unions and other bodies who have tabled memos. In particular, due to a lack of time, you did not accept any of the perfectly substantiated views of the General Confederation of Professionals, Crafts and Traders of Greece. You have completely ignored its fixed position that the levy should be linked to income, because this, in the opinion of the GSE, ensures better conditions for a fair and proportionate insurance system, while the system of classes that you reinstate, and indeed, with complete decoupling from insurance time, creates distortions of competition in favour of higher incomes. You ignored the memorandum from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Political Pensioners, which stressed that you must respect your election commitments and restore their pensions that have been cut by the Memorandum Laws. You deceived them, they say, because you are abolishing the thirteenth pension and you are not bringing supplementary pensions back to the levels of the previous memorandum, as you promised. You have ignored the observations of the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship for those who have a long working life over forty years, who say that the law contains a punishing provision - we agree, we confirm that - and also for the cuts that the pensioners, who were working for the first time before 2016, who did not have any cuts and will now lose 30% of their pension pay. You have ignored the comments of the Single Pensioners Network, which points out that you are legalising all the Memorandum Reductions to main and supplementary pensions, that you freeze the increases by at least 2023 and that you are integrating the EIF into EVKA and you are paving the way for its abolition and plundering its reserve of EUR 7 billion. You have not accepted anything that the National Federation of Mobile Disabled Persons has asked for, which, in its memorandum, asks you to build a network of protection against the poverty of its members, which is a particularly vulnerable social and economic group of citizens. You have not accepted anything from the Panhellenic Police Office, which has pointed out to you the injustices caused by the forty years of insurance and above and the exclusion of special categories of old insured persons, such as minemakers, special anti-terrorism units, etc. No demands from health bodies were accepted, and for this reason, the Hellenic Dental Federation, in its memorandum, expresses its indignation about the full ignorance of the demands of the branches that are over time one of the main donors of the national insurance system. You also ignored the Federation of OAED Officials, which pointed out the danger that your political choice would weaken the State's support for the unemployed by reducing insurance contributions in favour of OAED. EUR 0.9 for the benefit of cumulative employers and employees will take away from the Agency EUR 240 million annually and this means not implementing new programmes for the unemployed and increasing black labour. You have ignored all the actors who, objectively and away from party interests and purposes, have come and submitted their comments. Of course, who did you hear again? Only BSE, which expressly asks you to promote the coverage and effectiveness of the costs of supplementary private insurance systems. Let's not hide. This is your policy and your purpose behind the bill under discussion. The loss of revenue from public insurance funds will be around EUR 200 million a year, without calculating the possibility of nine being paid to ten insured persons who have to pay increased insurance contributions. The insurance bill is a clear turn to private insurance, abolishes the principle of social justice and redistribution and favours all its provisions with very high incomes alone. In the pensions, we're still looking to find the increases your executive promised. General and vague references to increases cannot hide events, the fact that the State budget expenditure for 2020 is reduced by EUR 200 million. You cannot hide from pensioners the fact that you abolish the thirteenth pension, voted by SYRIZA, despite your pre-election promise that you will keep it, but also Mr Mitsotakis' announcements to PPC, unless the Prime Minister is a liar. For that is what you all say in your speeches today, that he was a liar and deceived the Greek people. You cannot hide from pensioners the fact that the increases you make are either nonexistent or accounting. You cannot hide the fact that nine out of ten insured persons will pay 20% higher insurance contributions. You cannot hide the fact that the combination of contributions and taxes creates additional costs, door to 55% of the free traders and reduces costs progressively to the rest of the 45%. With your positions, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Members and your public statements to the media about supposedly working strikers, you insult the trade union movement, you underestimate the intelligence of retired and insured people, and that is why you owe them a great apologies, which is why, as your rapporteur has said, you are enthusiastically supporting today. Very soon, your enthusiasm will be cut, because the non-viability of your bill and irreparable damage, which will cause public insurance funds to the detriment of the current and future pensioners. You did not receive the people's message. You will soon receive his verdict. I would like your rapporteur - although not here - to ask for an apology from Mrs Malama for his extremely uncooperative conduct during her speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Panos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for someone who monitors the ways in which a government's political choices are defended, as set up by its civil servants, government positions are of interest these days during the debate on the insurance bill brought by the New Democracy. There is more self- admiration in these days. You're admiring yourself! You self-esteem! And you're congratulating each other! You surround the voices of admiration for this great cowardice you brought. In fact, a worthwhile situation of attention and study. Of course, this does not happen at random. There are willing communication channels in channels, site, newspapers, which will communicate your triumphs for the days of happiness, which come for the insured, but not at all secured by this insurance bill you brought. Well done, then. First of all, you've convinced yourself. You cannot, however, convince the low pensioners and the professionals of the lower and medium-sized layers, which you are targeting. Will the nine of the ten pensioners give you congratulations on losing their income? Will you be told "go" to abolish the thirteenth pension, which Mr Mitsotakis was committed to keeping it? This is the thirteenth pension, which was legislationd as a permanent measure by the SYRIZA government, which would be given every year. It was, after all, a measure which you voted on too. You considered that the third pension was not a third pension and you abolished it. Good! What did you put in her place? Nothing! The thirteenth pension, or whatever you want to call it, was simply "wrapped". He's just missing from the pensioners' pocket. The fund is minus, and that's what matters. It is a question of happiness and self-confidence for the important bill that you are reducing pension expenditure by EUR 200 million, making a reverse redistribution to the detriment of the low-pension workers. However, you are proclaiming that pensions are increasing. Only our master Jesus Christ multiplyed the bread and, with all certainty, you cannot do the same. The proportionate study, for which the Minister is proud - your own study - clearly records that the average annual pension, with this law you bring, is reduced in relation to the current system for the whole period, until 2040. According to your proportional study, the average annual pension for 2021 is EUR 9,842, while with the previous system it would be 2,942 and with the successful exit from the memoranda that the SYRIZA government has achieved, there would be really great increases. However, the rise of the New Democracy in power has created new data, not prosperous for insured and retired people. Triumphs continue. You triumph, why old employees and pensioners will see a 30% reduction in their pensions? Are you triumphing, because 90% of the free professionals, whom you are supposed to care for, will be charged with decoupling the contributions from their actual income and, of course, by increasing the minimum contribution? Nice care. Congratulations! The truth is, of course, that behind this unacceptable bill you brought, your consciousness comes from undermining the public social security system, for the benefit of private insurance companies. Moreover, the exemption from the high incomes of contributions directly leads to private insurance. It is, moreover, your ideological choice: All burdens on the insured, no welfare on the part of the public. SYRIZA believes in a reliable public insurance system. It aims at reducing unemployment, defending workers' rights, extending collective labour agreements, increasing the minimum wage, as the SYRIZA Government had started to implement as early as May 2019. 11%, I remind you. The New Democracy, despite its promise, does not increase the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, unfortunately, you brought a draft law on insurance, which is, of course, in line with your ideology, with your political choices, but it is at the expense of the Greek people, workers and pensioners. Congratulations between you - before we heard the latter - as well as your narcissistic self-admiration cannot fool anyone, no matter how much they are projected'matched' the media mills, which are not too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, too. We're continuing with Castorian Mr. Olympia Telloridou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is really important because it concerns the insurance system. It concerns, in other words, social solidarity, social cohesion, which must be done with social justice on the basis of solidarity between generations. However, these are issues which are missing from this bill, as we have a burden on the majority of workers and pensioners and a reduction in a small minority. So this is the different one that brings this bill. Legislation in the name of the Greek people, however, bearing in mind the reintroduction of a model adopted in the country in the previous years. A model, which had led to an empty insurance fund, to an unemployment rate of 27% and to successive reductions in pensions. We have the beginning of returning to the ruins of the old, poor insurance system. In other words, this is a policy which could be termed 'one of the same', without any prospect of association with development, without any redistributive policy. Or, rather, there is a redistribution, which is done to further open the lane between the rich and the poor. Despite the government's communication effort, it turns out that there is a false paradise, which in practice does not care about the income of employees and pensioners, it does not matter for the majority of our people, the small and medium-sized ones. Those who have been raped to celebrate are bewildered. The dream of raising pensions and reducing contributions from data remains a dream. This has already been demonstrated by the budget and by the reduction in pension expenditure by EUR 200 million. It is already clear that since the 2.6 million pensioners who are favoured by this insurance bill are about seventy thousand main pensions and two hundred and fifty thousand subsidiary pensions, when - I recall - with our 'bad', in New Democracy, 80% of supplementary pensions were protected. They're happy to be 10%. The remaining 90% will not get any increase, as it will be accountable and not in pocket, as it will not exceed the personal difference. The myth of growth will in practice be confirmed very soon, with the implementation of this bill. Then it can only be that six hundred thousand, for example, retired people, who saw little, even increases from 1-1-2019, understand the fraud. As the fraud will find all pensioners, who will see that the thirteenth pension is abolished, that "priority" that SYRIZA gave, a tip of EUR 900 million, which concerned all pensioners, eight hundred thousand with full pension and a million seven hundred thousand with analogy. In our view, this is a social injustice, and indeed, at a more favourable economic age. In addition, 90% of workers will have an increase in their insurance contributions, up to 20%. Therefore, instead of a favourable economic situation, we are returning to old recipes, where many will pay more to lighten the few. The pensions, for example, relate only to those with between thirty and forty years of insurance. You say that you are bringing changes because the previous law was unconstitutional when it is clear from the decision of the Council of State that the method of calculating contributions is the right and choice of the legislator. The reintroduction of classes does not have to say how unfair an insurance system existed. Just remember what happened in previous years with the insured, for example at TSE, who were unable to pay them. On the basis of the analog study, therefore, one example will be provided, the average pension is reduced per year by 2040. This is your bill. You bring in an insurance system, where you will pay the same, the one with an income of EUR 100,000, with the one with an income of EUR 10 000. This is not justice and it is not a redistributive social security system. It is about returning the attack on workers and pensioners. It is an insurance system that, combined with your overall choice of deregulation in the labour market, unprotected work, the abolition of collective agreements, the deterioration of the EDP, the encouragement of infractionality in the labour market, and the reduction of welfare benefits, is promoting an unpleasant future. Mr. Ministers, your government will not be judged by a virtual reality. It will be judged by the implementation of your policy. And this will not only happen with the insurance, but with all your election messages, with all your election frauds. Like, for example, what is going on these days with the refugee, which you have allowed our islands to sink, from an inability to manage the issue, and you have turned it into soul storerooms. In order to be able to cover this deficiency, you are to recruit authoritarianism and violence against our islanders. You must immediately withdraw MATs, because the situation has arrived out of control and our islands need decongestion. The Minister, starting his speech, said this was a historic bill. I'll agree with him. But remember that in history there is Vatterlo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, too. Mr Tsigris Angelos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, seven months have been closed, which New Democracy is in the government and in these seven months, as a good engineer lays strong foundations to build on them, so this government lays the foundations of the legislative process, so that Greece, which we all want and at least we visioned, can be built. Within seven months, then, fifty bills were passed. It is something that has never happened in modern Greek political history. Of course someone will ask: only the numerical production of laws, i.e. the amount of lawmaking, gives quality at the same time? This is the great success of the current government, because the laws are qualitative and lead Greece in the right direction. They create safety conditions for everyday life, market growth, tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises and free traders, removal of unreasonable burdens and budgetary obligations from the backs of the majority of Greek citizens and, at the same time, problems in legislation are solved and the wrong reflexes, which the State has given in the area of security over recent years, are corrected. Today, then, it is time to talk about something else, very important. If anyone goes through the province's cafes, when they're talking about pensions, the first thing they're all wondering is whether we're gonna get pensions that we're still working on. Because the numbers are stubborn, although sometimes they get tired, they are absolutely revealing. Greece has the lead in pension expenditure in the European Union. It consumes 17.7% of the gross national product for pensions, while the average in the Member States of the European Union does not exceed 12.5%. So let's see what pensions we give. Greece distributes four million three hundred eighty-seven thousand pensions, which are distributed to two million five hundred seventy-seven thousand pensioners. So let's see how many people work in our country. There are three million of our seven hundred fellow citizens working in our country, while the non-active economic population is three million to three thousand people. If one compares them, one will see that, essentially, we have one of the worst proportions of workers - retired people in Europe, and that creates the huge problem of the sustainability of our insurance system. But let us also see our forecast for the future, because we will not be permanent in 2020. What will happen in Greece in 2050, 30 years from now? Greece will no longer have the eleven million, which it has today, but is estimated, according to the official studies of the House itself, that it will have some nine million inhabitants. One in three Greeks will be over sixty-five years old. Three hundred thousand Greeks will be over ninety years old. A worker will be the equivalent of a retired person. These are the forecasts for 2050. Let's see, then, what brings this bill, which has to guarantee the viability of our pension system and, at the same time, give Greek pensioners a breath. The truth will be presented with numbers. The bill may not have any increases for all pensioners, but it has increases for a large proportion of them. It is the first pension law to bring about increases and not reductions. After twelve memorial years, for the first time we see an increase in pensions. In particular, pensions are increased to eight hundred thousand pensioners. More specifically, four hundred thousand pensioners are being raised by Mrs and the supplementary pension, but at the same time retrospectives have been given since April 2020. While in three hundred and fifty thousand pensioners there are increases in one length of time, by 2024, in five instalments. Direct winners are a hundred and fifty thousand pensioners who were retired after 13 May 2016. In particular, they will see an increase of EUR 288 a month and receive EUR 2,304 retroactively. Another three hundred thousand pensioners, reduced their supplementary pension in June 2016, will increase from EUR 30 to EUR 200 per month and retroactively, reaching EUR 1,600. Also, two hundred and fifty thousand to three hundred old pensioners will see increases in their pensions in five instalments, by 2024. In other words, one who took 1,000 euros in 2020 will get 1.024 euros. In 2021 it will take 1048 euros and will go up to 24 euros by 2024, to consolidate its pension at 1120 euros. It's a good start. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, however, a number of key issues which we lawyers are looking for and controlling in the proper legislature. A law, first and foremost, must respect the Constitution. And this law is completely constitutional. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute, Mr President. Thank you. The bill respects the principles of equality, proportionality and reciprocity. With this law, all Greek pensioners are considered equal, as imposed by the basic constitutional principle. Of course, pensions in the future will be proportionate and certainly rewarding in relation to the contributions paid. Isn't that fair? In a reform, there must in principle be necessity and appropriate. In other words, it must be necessary for a law and proper for what it is called to heal. The draft law in question has both preconditions. Ladies and gentlemen, the new insurance law is politically honest. He's socially fair. He's nationally beneficial. It is necessary and absolutely appropriate, because it ensures the survival of our insurance system. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote in favour of the insurance bill, which the Greek Government is proposing to the national delegation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Moraite has the floor from SYRIZA and Ieto-Carnania.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all this time in the public sphere and in the committees meetings, but yesterday and today, a number of arguments have been heard from many of the Members of the New Democracy and, of course, the Minister, in their efforts to support the insurance bill, which they are proposing. So we have heard about pension increases, that it is a bill that is a great reform, that our insurance system is sustainable by 2070, that it has growth dynamics and prospects, and that it has the acceptance of society. Ladies and gentlemen, it is what you have said this weekend in this Chamber. Obviously either you have another bill or you did not read it, which will be voted on tomorrow by the Greek Parliament. What is being reflected is something quite different from what you have presented. Everything you claim has nothing to do with reality. If I wanted to put a clipboard title in this bill, but small but clear, it would be: 'Great pensions and new business'. And I'll explain that then. Because your insurance bill has been targeted at the low pensioners and freelance professionals of lower and middle incomes, that is, 90% of each category respectively. The great aim of this bill - since it certainly wants to serve all your election record about 'bad' Katorugalos law - has two objectives. Create the conditions of inappropriate redistribution, but above all create the conditions for shifting to private insurance. And I'm explaining. Pension money - many colleagues have said so - I do not want to spend time on it - 2020 is 200 million less than 2019. So don't try to do the white one. Simple logic is needed, to understand that the pie is small, that the pensions in the next period will be smaller. You are abolishing the thirteenth pension, while you yourself, nine months ago in this Chamber, voted in favour of it. You remove the thirteenth pension, which the Prime Minister of Thessaloniki pledged to maintain. Tomorrow, and the Prime Minister and you in this Chamber will vote against the thirteenth pension and will of course vote in favour of your bill. We have been told, however, by the Minister himself, something that we cannot forget. What did you tell us? You didn't see the thirteenth pension! So, obviously, you didn't see the eight hundred thousand pensioners, low pensioners, who received this entire tenth-third pension. Of course, and you did not see the one million seven hundred thousand pensioners in the country, who were taking a step on Tuesday. They are obviously invisible to you, for your system, for your proposal, for your vision of the insurance system in our country. You reduce by 30% pensions for those who have become employed pensioners before the application of Law4387/2016. A large propaganda party opens up for supplementary pensions. Really, ladies and gentlemen, what pensions are you talking about? Because the only ones who will see anaemic increases are about two hundred and fifty thousand old - before 2016 - pensioners with a pension of over 1,300 euros. But don't forget, our pensioners are two million, six hundred thousand. The notorious rises of EUR 200 and 250 that you are committing in the world - I have heard the previous speaker of the New Democracy - with all this propaganda that has been done, who are concerned about? Only those who have an average salary of EUR 3,500 and forty years of uninterrupted insurance. I honestly ask: How many Greeks do they actually have this status? I could mention other points on pensions, but on the economy of time, I would like to close with this - before I go into the contributions - which I think is necessary and I will mention two examples. We have the proportionate study in our hands. We have the mirror, we have the footprint of the whole policy and the whole bill, and that is where it seems clear what your policy is and what will be in the coming years by 2040 the results of this policy, which will be the reductions in pensions. I'm coming to the contributions. You are raising the minimum, compulsory contribution from EUR 185 to EUR 220, which is 20%. This means that 90% of the free trades will pay higher contributions. What's this all about? At a time when small and medium-sized, small, merchant, crafters are going through a new crisis. They presented to us the elements of the holiday turnover. We all see a fall in the market, both because of politics, but also because of an international context. Right there, beyond the current increase, which was loaded on their back, we now have the increase in insurance contributions and they also have a Hercules over their heads, to see the viability and future of their business. You bring the class system without, however, linking the contribution to income. This is a clear element of distortion of competition in favour of the largest incomes, of course, which you are in this way looking towards private insurance. I believe that this is the second key pillar of your policy and this draft law. What are you doing? How many of them, who did in the past three years give more as an insurance contribution? What's going on? We're talking about a couple of thousands. So there, it's where you create a very nice customer package, Minister, gift to certain interests, gift to private insurance. I could say a great deal, Mr President. In order to be able to finish, however, I will close by saying that the insurance system is inextricably linked to the general economic path, to growth, but also to the world of work. As much as you want to hide the reality, your works and days, gentlemen of the government, are specific and visible. It is the hit on collective labour contracts, the deterioration of the EDP, your withdrawal from the election promise to increase the minimum wage to twice the growth rate, the overall deregulation that you have caused on the labour market. Your insurance bill comes to complete your full-front attack on the world of work. I close with what has been heard over the last few hours by many colleagues: 'We have won the elections. We got 40 percent. We are entitled to proceed with these rules.' And the madness: "We have society with us." It's not like that. You had the society with you in the elections and won it, but you had it, because you had served for months in an unprecedented, extreme right-wing populism, promising a solution to the refugee question. As we speak here today, our islands are experiencing a war situation. There's a mess in the refugee and our islands pay your ideas, your obsessions and your management capacity. You won the election because you promised to abolish the Ambassadors' agreement. You have won the elections because, you promised growth, which is on the road and of course does not come, new jobs and we have a great investment at the moment in excellence and merit, which is being trampled with your decisions and amendments. Understand and take the message: Indeed, you won on July 7, but you were not given a white check. The people gave you a folk mandate, so, ladies and gentlemen, temper in your cubics. Against you in the next period, you won't find us. You will find the Greek people united against these neoliberal Balkan policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr. Ioannis Paschalides, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the provisions of this draft law entitled ‘Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency’, the aim is to create a new digital security system. In particular, the objective of this insurance reform is to complete the greater administrative and organisational integration, as all pension and one-off insurance bodies are integrated, while at the same time implementing a maximum institutional division of the digital pension award, which is one of the most important commitments of the present Government. The main advantages of the digital transformation of the system are the accessibility of the citizen to digital services, the electronic issue of attestations and certificates, the interoperability of systems with respect to ensuring the anonymity and the protection of personal data, the digital insurance history system ‘ATLAS’ and, of course, the digital transformation of the process of awarding a pension. More specifically, as of 1 March 2020, the Single Social Insurance Institution is renamed an Electrical National Social Insurance Institution (hereinafter referred to as "e-E.F.C.A.") which is also part of the Single Insurance and Insurance Fund. In this way, organisational, administrative consolidation is achieved, while maintaining the accounting autonomy of the individual sectors, i.e. the main pension, subsidiary insurance and one-off benefit. In addition, by means of corrective, favourable intervention and together with two studies demonstrating the viability of the social security system, this insurance bill, which directly or indirectly affects approximately four million insured and retired, provides for the following basic changes: With regard to the contributions of self-employed persons, a new system of free-trade contributions is introduced for free-traded professionals, self-employed, scientists, farmers. By 12 March, the first January contributions to be calculated under the new system must be paid. The free professionals, self-employed and farmers will be invited in the next few days to declare the insurance scale in which they wish to join a specific ECA platform for 2020. In more detail, the new insurance is set out in six free choice insurance categories, starting from EUR 210 and escalating to the sixth category. A special favourable scheme for monthly contributions of EUR 126 will be available for young insured persons, who have five years of insurance. Of this amount, EUR 93 relates to the main pension, while EUR 33 to health. The higher the contributions, the greater the monthly pension they receive with the new insurance. It will be a great relief, which will be received by all the parallel insured, as those who cover the minimum pension and health contribution of EUR 210 will be exempted from the contribution to the block. One of the most important arrangements in this bill is increases in main pensions. About a million retired people in June will see rises in hand, after recalculation of pensions, based on the improved rates of replacement provided for in the new insurance. Significant beneficiaries are retired persons who have been insured for thirty-five to forty years and have left with a pension of more than EUR 1,500. Their profit from the calculation of the pension, based on the improved rates, exceeds EUR 100 per month and in the case of high remuneration pensions of EUR 3,500 the profit is gradually reached EUR 252. In addition, the new insurance reserves the simplification of procedures and the optimisation of retirement conditions for workers who, during their life insurance, changed more than two insurers. In particular, the insured persons who have completed the sixty-seventh year of their age are facilitated. I would also like to mention that for the first time, a single award rule is created for everyone. The minimum period of insurance for the basis of an individual right to a one-off benefit shall be abolished and the procedure for awarding such benefit shall be simplified uniformly. Moreover, as far as working mothers are concerned, the law gap created by the Katorugalou law in mothers who work and acquire a child and their reduced contributions is definitively solved. This provision concerns employed mothers with paid employment relationships either self-employed or self-employed persons in the agricultural sector who pay reduced contributions by 50% for twelve months after birth. While it is worth noting that the reduction in employee contributions from 1-6-2020 amounts to 0.90%. In conclusion, this draft law is the starting point for an insurance system that is simpler and more secure for the insured, with the most important aim of dealing with the mistrust of the insured, which has been created by the legislation of the previous government and which, at the same time, will ensure more efficient and faster services to everyone. I would like to congratulate the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, too. We continue with New Democracy and Mr. Vassiliou - Petro Spanaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position on this very serious bill, you will allow me to say that at last, with the amendment brought by the Minister of Finance, an end to those Cassandras who wanted to invest in the concern of thousands of pensioners. And finally, the administrative determination of the remuneration tax, such as pensions retroactively collected in 2013 from thousands of taxpayers, will be due on 29 May 2020 in order for the Ministry to take all those measures, in order to have a new provision in order to respect the principle of self-sufficiency of uses, to have a tax relief and a serious thought to reduce fines and increases. So, then, the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy see that it has reflexes, reacts and responds. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours' time we are being called upon to vote on the first reformist insurance bill, which is finally accompanied by a proportionate study. If you want, it simply opens the door in the new decade for workers, for employers, for pensioners. The word'science' now comes in their vocabulary. And at last they can optimize this insurance reform, which is part of the reform of the New Democracy Government. It's an insurance policy, a good basis. I see that opposition parties, with various amendments, are trying to make themselves good on various categories of retired people. We must condemn this. We know what the problems are, too, but we put on a firm basis, a basis which has not dared to put any previous government. And that truth must be told in this Chamber. This is the first bill, which, after 11 years, provides for increases and no reductions. I would like to say that this government is listening. And he's listening very well. He's got ears and he's listening to society. I would like to remind you what the institutions have said in the committee. You have seen that they have congratulated the Minister of Labour, Mr Giannis Vroutsi, and the staff of the Ministry of Labour on their efforts to bring a fair system of insurance. Others and others need to be done. But a good base came in. You will allow me to present the announcement made by the EMSDDA regarding this insurance. It goes without saying that at a meeting with the Minister of Labour: "happily there has been a response to our request and a commitment from the Minister that the rates of supplementing the pension increase will not be reduced." If you wish, let us not put a colour on the union, but we see that the trade unions and the public sector are truly congratulating Mr. Yannis Vrutsi on the effort that has been made. I say it for those who say that the government has put down rolls and doesn't listen. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I would like to answer nine basic questions. They are questions of logic, questions of substance, questions of the legislation under discussion and of an insurance bill. Can young people hope that they will receive a pension from the application of the insurance bill? The answer is 'yes' because the conditions are actually created in order to be an insurance scheme which each worker and the young workers are mainly aware that they will at some point be retired. We must finally go to a change of attitude. This is done with this insurance bill. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Is the sustainability of our insurance system ensured? Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister brought the meeting to the start. The government is making a reduction in contributions. We have a general policy of strengthening entrepreneurship. We have a clear agenda as a tax cut. All this really helps to say that we have an insurance system that is sustainable. And it will be sustainable. Third question. Is the services being modernized? Are the foundations for dealing with pensioners, workers and employers, as they deserve? The answer is: Do not unfair this bill, because almost half of the provisions concern electronic ETUC. It is about simplifying procedures. It is also about the new structures of the ECA. Let's see what the workers say. I heard, with great interest, the workers who serve in the FBI. They saw that he has a positive sign of this bill. Allow me, Minister. I know that the commander of the EFCA, Mr. Hallaris, who is a real technocrat, will see it with a very positive eye. Let me say this. We, with this bill, bring a change in the Katrugalu law. Let's bring it to the structure of the FBI. Because at the moment we are seeing services which have merged and which do not meet the needs of the people. Allow me, since I am elected in the south of Athens, to say that today in Kallithea, in Glyfada, we have serious problems, a great effort by the workers and a great deal of hardship for the pensioners, workers and employers. I therefore propose that the New Smyrna branch, which will really give breath, will dismantle the areas there, as well as the establishment of two new branches, one in Moschato, which will serve Tavros and neighbouring areas and one in Argyroupoli, so that it can bring decongestion to the Glyfada shop and serve the Greek one. I also convey to you the desire of Mayor Moschatos - Tavros Andreas Evthymios and the mayor of Greece - Argyroupoli by Mr. Yiannis Konstantatos that he is at the disposal of Mr. Christos Hallaris, the commander, to make these shops property belonging to the municipalities. Here we show that we have a government and we have agencies that really cooperate, which the SYRIZA government has not done in the past. Let me answer the last questions I have raised. Are there going to be serious increases in pensioners? I've heard Mrs. Ahtsoglou posting with an attempt to degrade. We must not degrade the government's efforts. Yes, we will have an increase in basic and supplementary pensions. In supplementary pensions, over three hundred thousand pensioners will see increases. The same to the main, even more retired people. Another question: is it possible for members of the choice? Yes! For the first time, we have the right to choose pension, which will also be paid in future. Let's go to the last question: after all, how much will that increase be? Midwives 100 euros, and will range from 5 to 196 euros. It's the subsidiary. Another question: Who will benefit? All workers, doctors, lawyers, military, civil servants, all pensioners. Let's go to the last question: what does it bring? It brings social justice, it brings simplicity, it brings flexibility, it brings special care for new entrants, it brings tax incentives, as it brings a tax discount, it respects the person who has worked and, above all, to those who have successive insurance. Let's go to the last thing, and I'll close. To what is this insurance bill different from the previous ones? This is where we have to stand. That pensions in the future will be paid by contributions rather than taxes, and that is the great advantage of this insurance bill, that is real insurance reform, that makes the big difference of the Brutsis Act from the Katrugalos and all the previous ministers. At the same time, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, by strengthening entrepreneurship, by increasing the collection of contributions, by increasing employment, by increasing investment, by increases in wages, which will come - to be sure of this - removes all the thoughts that this system will be a tax system. On the contrary, it will be a bill and an insurance system, which will bring to our daily life the word'responsibility'. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, too. We continue with New Democracy and Mr. Konstantinos Maravelia from beautiful Magnesia. We'll hang up with Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as early as this morning, I think most of the arguments have been heard. I would like to compare and compare some facts to refresh our memory. And all because last Saturday we watched a SYRIZA TV picture in Tae kivo do and basically, this fieste was based, on the one hand, on some propaganda videos and on the other in a speech. Unfortunately, the speech itself does not think that it had any interest, but propaganda videos, something they wanted to say. The nucleus around which they were made was very specific, that the New Democracy was allegedly not the party of excellence, because Kyriakos Mitsotakis has some friendly or related persons. In other words, according to SYRIZA, it is wrong that there should be, even in a distant relationship with one, two associates of the Prime Minister, regardless of the skills they possess and these people, for SYRIZA, will never be excellent. Attention, however, because, as we recall, it was not at all annoyed by today's Civic Opposition, when they were taking over, regardless of qualifications, positions of high responsibility, and even became ministers to the previous government, friends and friends of the former Prime Minister. Anyway, all this, of course, was judged by the result, like all things and by the result, Mr. Tsipras and his colleagues, in July 2019. A characteristic example of all those I am referring to. is the placement of the cousin of the former Prime Minister to the position of the Ministry of International Economic Relations Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and although he had not studied the economics, Mr. Tsipras was judged by his cousin, Prime Minister, able to manage the country's international economic relations. Not only that, but then he was appointed director of the Prime Minister's finance office, because obviously, there would probably not be an economist to take over the office. It was enough, however, for a relative to take over high duties on SYRIZA even regardless of his qualifications. So here's how those who blame the New Democracy perceive excellence. We'll see a little and how this is linked to the insurance, because Mr. Tsipras made the mistake of blaming this government for the fraud of the excellents. I must remind you of facts which have to do with both and link them to our debate today. When one talks about fraud, for example, in the area of social security, one cannot find anything to say against the Mitsotakis Government, because it is simply implementing its electoral commitments. But we remember the contractor brother of the former Prime Minister and the tender for a public project of EUR 1.1 million. So while the former Prime Minister's brother was accused of using false insurance information - that was the result of the high contributions - he was ultimately not tried, because of the Law of the Paratroopoul. I would very much like to know what happened with his debt to CSMEDA. Now, as far as SYRIZA is concerned about social security is concerned, the bride of the former Prime Minister, who, incidentally, was appointed director of the political office of the then competent State Secretary, Mr. Petroululus, despite the fact that at first there were problems and impediments to the House and incompatible with this relative, who, of course, were ignored! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, with today's debate on new insurance, we can also make some comparisons, not only for faces but also for politicians, because we all remember the reduction from the SYRIZA of the minimum pension in 2015 to the EUR 390 and the abolition of the CSCE, which followed by the Katrugalo Law. It was then that you had the unfortunate Minister of Social Security, Mr. Paulos Haikalis, to say that it would have a lot of fun in the hot potato of pension reduction. It was the time when he was the successor of Haikalis, Mr. Petropoulos said the free traders were after him on the street and asked him to increase their insurance contributions. Shortly before this historic statement, the SYRIZA government had depleted supplementary pensions by imposing the famous plaque, which the Council of State found to be unconstitutional and put the widow's pensions on ice. Today, however, we hear the Qualified Opposition demanding the fourteenth pension and marriage allowance. In the face of this unresolved policy, the New Democracy is confronting its credibility and truth. We are increasing the rates of the main pensions, after thirty years of insurance. In this way, the injustices of the Katrugalo law, which created a recompense deficit for retired people, who have worked hard for decades, are being eliminated. The supplementary pensions are retroactively retroactive since October 2019, at the level of which they were established on December 31, 2014. The limit of EUR 1,300 of the Katrugalo Law, which imposed a horizontal haircut on the sum of the basic and supplementary pension paid is hereby repealed. Particularly for the self-employed, who SYRIZA described as a “the tie movement” and is now being cut for them, the New Democracy Government brings the full disconnection of the contributions from the years of insurance and the well-known classes of the past, the complete decoupling of contributions from income and the increase in the minimum wage. In addition, favourable treatment is universally extended to all new entrants in the production process and not only to young scientists, doctors, lawyers and engineers, through the imposition of low contributions for the first five years of working life, without even having to have this money returned. Minister, I would like to focus specifically on the primary sector and the sensitivity that the government shows to the Greek farmer. As a member of the Magnesia Parliament, I have to acknowledge that the new favourite to our producers a protective framework for reduced contributions and increased benefits differs from that for all other free professionals. At the same time, with provisions such as the one for the work of retired farmers, primary production is further stimulated and incentives are created in the region to increase economic activity. Indeed, this bill brings socially necessary and expected changes to the Katorugalou law. Not because we want to level everything up and start again from the beginning, but because the state must adapt to social reality, because we must recognise the distortions brought by the previous government, not only in insurance, but throughout the real economy and fundamentally restore social justice, because in particular an insurance system, which is not fair, has shown that in the long term it will collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, too. Mr. Theodores Dritsas from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. What can you say? That's the time, that's the talk. It is clear that the grand Saturday's gathering in Tae Khovo Do with Alexis Tsipras' speech and all the revealing videos have disturbed and brought panic to the New Democracy, a panic expressed by the previous colleague. But I won't stand here. A bill, such as what we are discussing today on insurance, is always of paramount importance, because the insurance system, in each country, condensates too many values and condenses the issues of social cohesion and sustainability, not of the insurance system itself, but of its own sustainability. But you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say the following. Today the tension has culminated in the islands, in an unprecedented way. The government of the state of staff, the government of law and order, has turned the islands of the north-eastern Aegean into an literally war zone, at risk - I hope - of the inadvertent, of course, even of the Armed Forces in tension. These things are unprecedented. Now, in the face of the enormous, pressing and obvious need to dismantle the islands, in which the government has already failed, it is withdrawing the MATs. So he used to bring us seven months now, especially in refugee, every five days to review every measure he had officially announced. That's what's happening. He withdrew the MATs and invites the Prime Minister himself tomorrow afternoon to call the representatives of the government of the Aegean islands. Ladies and gentlemen, these issues are too serious to be dealt with in such irresponsible manner by any government. Finally, decongestion of the islands is always a difficult and complex issue, but it wants you to be active and not to be behind the protocol of the European Union - Turkey. You have taken your eyes off yourself and voted in this House for young people under the age of 15, while they were under the age of eighteen and were in the category of the vulnerable population of refugees and migrants, so they could be transferred. You have taken your eyes off yourself and abolished what is internationally true, the situation of traumatic and post-traumatic shock, where refugees - children and families who have been through so much suffering - it makes sense that they have suffered it and become part of the vulnerable populations too. And not just that, but too much. You have taken your eyes off yourself, to cancel even predictions that allowed you to be allowed by the Protocol of the European Union of Turkey, with your unilateral logic of making life insurmountable to refugees and immigrants, so that they would stop coming. Because SYRIZA was supposed to bring them, for he was calling them. You have also cancelled the maximum tool to deal with this complex and huge issue, the refugee and immigration, solidarity. Solidarity is not just for refugees and immigrants. It's also for local populations. When it dominates a government's policy, and this also translates into the social body the worthy of solidarity, then it can find solutions for managing and improving the conditions. When it turns and calls refugees and immigrants into smugglers, invaders, at national risk, it certainly has "shooted the ball". The hands of these works, you collect them. Put a brain fast, 'cause it's urgent. You cannot play with Greece, with social cohesion, with the possibility of progressive progress in this country in such an irresponsible way. On the insurance bill, I would like to say the following. Mr Brutsi has already accused us of fighting us and complaining that we are proposing a roll-call vote. Obviously, the Greek Parliament's responsibility for this bill and for every law on insurance is enormous. Of course, every Member of Parliament must take that responsibility. What's the central issue? There was no longer any perfect documentation, such as that of our former Minister and rapporteur, Efis Ahtzioglou, but also almost all members of the SYRIZA, with the documented criticism at every point in the bill. I don't have to stand any further when we have a real decline. Is it a ghost or a thirteenth pension? Isn't she even lawn for now and for all the years? And not only is it legislated, but it is provided for in all our plans and calculations for a sustainable insurance system, which in the first instance includes this type of regulation, which may be more extended in the future. Isn't it a reduction in pension income the abolition of the thirteenth pension? I'm not commenting on your inconsistencies with the Mitsotakis announcements and all that. She's a karabinat in herself. Is it not a reduction in the insured person's income position to increase insurance contributions? I won't say any more because I don't have the time. I would like to dwell on a central issue mentioned by Mrs Efi Ahtsioglou, Euklidis Tsakalotos also mentioned it and mentioned it too many of the SYRIZA's companions and comrades: In the final version, based on your proposal, the insurance system in a reward rather than a redistributive one. It's a dream of all the modernists for years now who want to make the insurance system payback. That makes an insurance company, that's what private insurance companies do. It is not a social state that chooses the pension pay system. He's a dealer of private interests. I don't talk in the air. Since 2018, it has been announced - there are press releases - the official meeting of the then sectoral director Mr. Stakoura - if I remember well, Mr. Metarakis was also well remembered - with the administration of the Association of Insurance Companies. Where? In the offices of the Union, not just at the offices of the New Democracy, not just at an accidental meeting, a meeting which, according to the communication issued, set up the agreed plan for the reform of supplementary pensions and the participation of private insurance in it, which proved very soon that this could not be done as planned, because it could not stand any rule of constitutionality. Of the evil, in these ways, you are now giving the possibility and perspective, precisely because it will only lead to the national pension scheme of EUR 30 000 a majority of retired after five, ten years, but I hope that soon it will collapse this scheme and change and cancel the prospect of invasion of private insurance companies into the pension system. This is the quintusia, the centre of all this so-called reform of Mr Brutsi, right now. This is long-term targeting. It won't look right away. Obviously, it will not appear immediately, because this, as has already been announced, will be supplemented by other steps, and that is exactly what will give the new image of the supposedly viable insurance system. In this direction to say that linking the insurance contribution to income is the source of tax evasion is the quintusia, it is the imprint of impunity. That was time-consuming and it's exactly treated. It's like saying that, because at a juncture some have found a way to avoid taxing, so that they don't connect their income to the most increased insurance contribution, that can be the case. No, of course not. We are here to avoid tax evasion, and therefore the decoupling of the insurance contribution from income is precisely the choice, to serve and benefit the few, at the expense of the many.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-26-S1-commons.u358	With the consent of the House at 23.13 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, February 27, 2020 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: continuation of the debate and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - F.M.A.).(')'.
