ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 8-5-20 authorization, the minutes of the PRAD meetings of Friday 8 May 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Improving immigration legislation, amending the provisions of Laws 4636/2019 (A' 169), 4375/2016 (A'51), 4251/2014 (A'80) and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday, 13 May 2020, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by Mr Constantine Bogdanou, Member of Parliament, with number 662-4-5-2020, by Mr Constantine Bogdanou, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The Operation of the Guarantee Fund for Economic and Business Aid". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 686/11-5-2020 by MP Mr.Tryphoon Alexiades to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Definition of the Director-General of the House of Appeal for Economic Crime." 3. The Question No 675/11-5-2020 by the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Direct support for the farmers and farmers of Elias.” 4. The question by No. 684/11-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The suspension of school excursions in the interior and abroad without the provision for a refund." 5. The Question by Mr Constantine Bouba to the Minister of the Interior, dated 667-7-5-2020, on the subject: "The recruitment of permanent cleaners in schools." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 6776/11-5-2020 of the Deputy Drama of the Change Movement Mr. Charulas (Haras) Headquarters to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "What is the real picture in schools a week after the opening?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 685/11-5-2020 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Do not cut the wages and rights of workers of the Greek Air Industry." 3. The Question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, dated 687/11-5-2020, on the subject: "Simulation of all contractors in school cleanliness and recruitment of new permanent cleaning staff for adequate coverage of school units." 4. The Question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Let now stop the co-operation of Governments - the EU - industrialists at the expense of small vineyard growers and lamb farmers". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B2 West Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Additional measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises and traders". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, entitled 'Direct measures and sustainable solutions for borrowers'. 3. Question No 5078/21-320 by Mr Kegeroglou, Prime Minister of Heraklion, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Support measures for farmers and farmers to deal with the effects of the coronary pandemic'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that it will not be answered because of lack of competence or under No 4922/13-2020 a question, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, addressed to the Minister of Finance Mr Christos Stagioura. The topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: The Question No 648/30-4-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Questions Nos 644/28-4-2020, 653/4-5-202020 and 657/4-5-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Interior Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos. The Question No 649/30-4-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Tourism Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. We are now starting with the first with the number 648/30-4-2020 timely question of the first cycle of MP I East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) kourikos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The government gives the gift to the people of culture". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes in order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the timely question we have put to you was about your actions in relation to the ban on artistic activity in the next six months. Since its retirement to date, you have received replies from your own government representative, and, finally, together, you have had the same sort of ineffective measures that are unclear and unambiguous. You announced that, since March, forty-five thousand people in culture have been entitled to an allowance of 800 euros. But according to GOD evidence, Minister, workers in the field are more than ninety-five thousand. Even if that figure is correct, then, forty-five thousand, the majority of workers are left out of the special allowance measures of EUR 800. You announced suspension of insurance and tax obligations. However, this measure must tell you that it only accumulates debts, which cannot be served, especially after the cultural suspension you have imposed. Where will they raise money when the summer doesn't work? What's he gonna pay later? And the famous self-regulation of the market will, of course, break workers and small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of culture. You announced that those who received the special seasonal allowance September - November 2019 and who are not beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit in the first quarter of 2020 will receive EUR 800. But she - I must tell you - your generous announcement concerns only two thousand eight hundred fifty one people, according to the figures from the Panhellenic Vision Federation - Listening. Did you do the extras, Minister? Are you making them wrong, or are you mocking the people of Culture? Do you know how many people they are? It's two thousand eight hundred fifty one. They're a thousand two hundred, I think, musicians, seven hundred actresses, twenty dancers and some more. I repeat it's two thousand eight hundred fifty-one. You told us that beneficiaries of the EUR 800 financial assistance have become all the workers whose contracts of employment expired early before their contractual year. It is another vague and unrealistic measure, because the theatrical businessmen, Mrs. Minister, in seeing the spectators cut down before Lockdown, ceased their workers' contracts and could not give a suspension. Of course, the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, said they would open up a platform where these workers could be included. But if you knew how the market works - and you will allow me to tell you that I spent forty-five years from my life in this market as an active element and not as an observer from the outside or a political leader - you would know that there are likely many entrepreneurs not to do so, as putting workers on the standstill means that when they open, they should have the same number of workers. In winter, what year will they open? With what measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Comrade, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, recent parliamentary procedures do not have the best times. You'll give me some more time to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u5	You can in your dentext to place. Please. You know the Rules of Procedure. I already gave you a minute and a half already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u6	We're not in normal conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u7	Please. I know, and that's why you took a minute and a half more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u8	You must, with your sensitivity, let a voice be heard for the people of culture!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u9	Of course, it'll be heard. That's why you're gonna get a second, and that's where you're gonna take time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u10	Madam Minister, you have announced that you will make an invitation to grant a grant directly from the Ministry with an amount of 2.5 million. Madam Minister, a year has passed - I tell you very well - since the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture has been in your hands. Really, can't you separate what is a support measure and what call for a grant? Let's ask you. Invitation to grant a grant is not a support measure for AMCs for the period that the theatres are closed. It's an aid to start activities again when they start. The Artists' Register you announced is a worker's request and also concerns technicians. The register, Madam Minister, will be organized primarily by the participation of workers, unions, associations, independent voices and not exclusively at the Ministry's offices with the help of some artists in your environment. You told us that you were going to organize actions spending 15 million, Minister. But 14 million have been cut in relation to the SYRIZA budget. SYRIZA in 2019 had budgeted 49 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr Colleague, allow me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u12	I'm done. You in 2020 have budgeted 15 million less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u14	They have rights, which you have forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u15	Mr Colleague, the Bureau is speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u16	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u17	Please. I told you in your protology you were asking the question. Ask your question and I'll give you time to place. What you're doing is positioning right now. Please, let's keep this guy at least. Ask your question and I'll give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u18	It's not a placement at all. I'll be in later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u20	In this respect, although I have more to say, but do you see that I am not given the opportunity from the Bureau: Minister, will you really deal with the creators and the space? Will you tackle the problem horizontally and not vertically by including small categories of workers, impressing outwards in the world? Because the creators don't fool them. They know, they've been placed, placed every day, they've turned your back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. But you are wrong because the Bureau has given you too much time. You've already reached six minutes and ten and you know that in the question we have two minutes. I gave you a lot of time to ask your question. In your dentistry it is clear, very clearly, that I will give you more time and you all know it. Thank you very much. The Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to say things once again, which clearly do not seem to have understood and inspired. Besides, the mother of learning or repetition. It is clear that the health crisis has created unprecedented conditions for all. The government, the Prime Minister, managed this crisis in the best way possible and extracted credit for its international operations. We're back to normality. It is therefore an opportunity from the Step of the House to see how things have been all along. First of all, since the beginning of the crisis, the Government and the Ministry of Culture have shaped an integrated strategy, leaving no business out. For this government, civilization and its employees have never been an exception. On the other hand, our interest in supporting artists and other specialities and the techniques of culture and those active in the field of contemporary culture is not just exhausted in emergency measures. It is reflected in the total project of the Ministry, which we have been implementing since 9 July 2019, with the aim of supporting and developing all sectors related to contemporary artistic creation. As you well know, the Ministry of Culture does not give any benefits, the Ministry of Culture is developing a development strategy. The voluntary policy is supported by the co-responsible ministries, with which we are in constant cooperation and consultation. So, since March, in the first wave, these forty-five thousand employees, self-employed and cultural enterprises have been included and the horizontal support measures are entitled, the EUR 800 bonus plus all other facilities. That means - because these are elements of the Ministry of Finance and they are data - 35.5 million. They were added to your charges. Could be two and a half thousand, maybe more. Believe me that the evidence is not from anywhere documented and cross-checked, because the landscape of industrial relations in culture is actually uncharted. That is why we are also moving forward in the structural reform of the creation of a register of artists and creators, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, which obviously includes its technicians, including more than a hundred 50 categories and specialities, based not only on the CAR, not only on the IKA, but also on the STEP -92. From there on they are integrated and covered retroactively, those who have been employed to more than one employer in the period 15-3-2020 to 20-4-2020 and had an average weekly 30% overall working hours. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me a minute, Madam President. They will also receive this EUR 800, precisely because it is what we are interested in, and what we are working on every day and a little while before I came here to the House, we were in consultation with the Ministry of Labour and the workers and unions, precisely to extend this perimeter. We have gone into very specific arrangements and I will give you an example of the subject of music travellers and travellers. The charges are constantly widening. At 35.5 million we estimate that charges equivalent to EUR 24.5 million have been added. And we keep adding. We added some time ago, in consultation with the Ministry of Labour, and the contracts that have normally expired and the contracts that have been terminated, if you want, since 15 February, precisely because the entrepreneurs have fired people by 1 March 2020. Even those workers who have contracts that are interrupted within one day and we include them. We have put in place a social employment programme for tens of thousands of cultures of EUR 13 million, where in 20 days' time between 15 June and 15 September, these people will receive EUR 1 000 with full insurance contributions. At the same time, we are able to join the unemployment programmes of the Ministry of Labour. We have decided to support AMKE, which, as you well know, are free market operators, civil non-profit companies, horizontally, those that have been written in the Registry of the Ministry of Culture. It's other than grants. We doubled the theatrical grants. We've increased 67% of prom grants, and I'm talking about regular grants. The aid to urban non-profit companies, which costs about 2.5 million, is horizontal, precisely to support these small businesses as well. Finally - and the rest I will say in my dentext - with the legislative act on 13 April we are giving the opportunity to undertakings which are not an AME - and that has never been done through the Ministry of Culture - to natural persons and self-employed through a joint ministerial decision, which is also issued in the Ministry of Finance, to strengthen the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Panagiotis Sponge has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Your words are, Minister, mother of learning or repetition. Perhaps that is why you repeat the same and the same measures that have no targeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u25	To understand them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u26	To understand them? Maybe you can convince yourself, I say. You say them and say them again, if you at least convince yourself, because you have not convinced them and insulted them once again here. If they were happy, you know, my fellow Members, my fellow scientists would have done a gathering for you at the Constitution. That's not what happened, the opposite happened. You have insulted the creators once again, coming here and presenting a climate of paradise. Why don't we see it? Are we so turbulent? Madam Minister, you have not addressed the industry. You addressed the rest of the world who don't know the peculiarities. You are in trouble measures that have already been announced with the slightest new ones in order to make a impression. There is no provision for those who have lost planned jobs since 20 March, who naturally did not have a contract, because there is never a contract so early. Minister, the exception to the general government bodies excludes even more workers, especially when there is a mandate from the Ministry of the Interior that no fixed-term contracts ending as long as the theatres are closed. At the end of July most contracts expire on state tents. What's gonna happen, then? Madam Minister, we insist that horizontal measures are needed. No minister has ever given so little and so little to what the insecure people of Culture live, their precarious work, in a job where the "black job" is also taking the lead. We actors are now matured after the abolition of the collective agreement by the government of Mr. Samaras in 2013. As long as SYRIZA was trying to organize collective agreements, he organized them where he could in the state theatres. But the employers' Association, the Panhellenic Free Theatre Association, so that the workers don't have any interlocutors, has dismantled themselves. You have again announced a deafening void, Minister, nothing at all. The vast majority of workers are outside support measures. What you are doing is having a fragmentary discussion with the workers. Today, as you said, you had a video conference, a meeting at the Ministry - I don't know - you didn't call the Panhellenic View Federation. You were sent a letter by GOD on Sunday and Monday 11:45 to her. On Monday at 11.52 you had changed your mind and told her that you were canceling the PDO meeting and told her that you would speak on Wednesday. Why can't all the employees talk together? Do you want to treat them separately, do you want to break down the front? The people of culture, the workers of culture are - we are - all one forehead across parties, apart from ideologies for what is happening in our country and the unacceptable way that the Ministry of Culture treats us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u27	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u28	Since 2013, collective agreements have been abolished over the period of five and a half years of your administration. If there was the political will, which you are constantly invoking now, you have had plenty of time to reinstate the collective agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u29	With what PDU?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u30	You didn't! On the other hand, you come and say that no one has ever given so little in such circumstances. I wonder, Mr President, if you have ever had such conditions before. And I would like you to tell me when more than EUR 100 million was given in two and a half months to support horizontally and development measures in modern culture. So I answer you: Never! It's never been given that much money! I hope that more and more will be provided. However, the workers of all branches are treated by this government in the same way. You cannot have spent four and a half years in the government and not be interested, since you have so much interest in the creators in modern culture, in the preparation of this register. The register, obviously, is also drawn up with the participation of workers and attestations from associations where necessary. And that is one of the criteria that is all 'or, or' is not 'and', which is not prosthetics and which the Ministry of Labour applies, which will start this census or registration, if you want. And why is that so? Just to show the working landscape fully, because if you don't have any data or policies right you can plan or give targeted money. At the moment, then, what we are doing is constantly attempting to widen the perimeter so that as many people as possible are included. And from there on the development part comes, because these people will indeed face a summer - as we will all - which will be different from the other summers. Fullness is limited, starts from 40% and can go further into open cultural spaces. There are problems, there are difficulties. But that doesn't mean we have to stay with our hands crossed. That is precisely why we have created the development programme that we have created. It is precisely for this reason that we are discussing that the Greek Film Centre is already moving forward with the announcement - which, beyond its regular grant, takes 2.8 million euros, that is, we reach EUR 6.5 million - to support as quickly as possible and in rapid procedures - and not as in the previous years, which, over two and a half years, the grants - people generally related to cinema from its regular grants, documentaries, short films and animation. The PPC has been supported and supported by their regular grants, which for the first time are given so quickly, and by exceptional grants, precisely to employ people on the market in their programmes and to stimulate the region's cultural summers. The programme of two hundred performances in archaeological sites in 80% is based on people in the market. Supervising bodies undertake to make productions, using market makers. There are many more things and I tell you features - and I only say you are'slow, late, late, late' - that we had received the invitation to digital culture on 20 March. On March 13th, Lockdown started. On 20 March we had already received an invitation, because, as you should know, the Ministry of Culture can only give money by means of invitations and by a specific deliverable. So, digital culture, we didn't create it to create it. We created him - and it is one of the examples - just to support all these people. And it is no coincidence that within the month that the invitation lasted, there were three hundred twenty-five requests, supported by about one million euros, precisely to strengthen these people. There are many such invitations, Your Honor. It is clear that the debate on horizontal measures is continuing, and I have told you now. You referred to the WORLD. Today I invited the teleconferencing people who asked to see me the other day. It wasn't possible to be more than it was, because there was going to be a bead, and when you got too many in a teleconference, you don't have any real results. On Wednesday the rest of us have been called to continue the debate. Today was the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour, to give the same answers and above all to inform about the latest touches of the joint ministerial decision, which includes even more people of culture in the EUR 800 special allowance and all other support measures. It's very simple: when anyone wants to zero everything, it can zero it. When one wants to make a sterile opposition, he can make it. The criticism is another thing and it is another level, but that, unfortunately, goes beyond you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Following the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus, the State of Israel, the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on a pipeline for the transport of natural gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets'. The second question under number 644/28-4-2020 will now be discussed at the second time in the first cycle of the MEP Laurel of the Change Movement Mr. Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Intensive recognition of OTA officials on the front line". Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos will answer the timely question. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Minister, with the wings cut off, we are coming today because, from 28 April to 5 May, your colleague, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Sculakakis, sent us an answer, which is good - or good news - you are not saying it. And, of course, it was an answer which also relates to our subject today and was related to a part of our overall request through the question, which was to recognize - as far as the people, OTA employees, who are in cleaning and car parks - their offer in practice, that is to say by giving them the special allowance. So, then, the answer by Mr. Psulakakis, which, Minister, I would like you to know in the Minutes of this House, was not known - if you have not already been aware - of the content, so that I can continue and say this: Today we come to you with a question, as I have said, broader question to the Minister of Finance. But it's about people's same accusation. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelia Likaulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I do not need - I think - to break open doors and talk about the COVID pandemic -19 and what it has meant for each of us separately, for the state and the state, for the Greek Government - that you continue to remind us of, if we forget it, both about the Hellenic Republic and its people. It means too much and bad things. The citizens have been disciplined, the government has heard the experts. We are all at the forefront of this. But we're all the same. Being at the seat of the House, being in one office and writing alone, other than sanitizing squares, common spaces and bins. It's another thing to protect cleanliness, pollution, but to take care of all of us, to be in the front line, and to have both in the family and the vulnerable group of the elderly and young children. So these people of cleanliness and trains are the people who were on the front line with overtime, Minister, as you know, because I have seen that you are in constant contact with both the OTAs and the workers and you see how they work. The others are the structure of the social services of the OTAs, which is also on the same line, and I think that many times you publicly praised the social services of the municipalities, saying that we must all fight this battle and fight together. So do you not think that it is really unfair for these people to stay this way when in all the other sectors of the front line their work has been largely recognised by, for example, their political leaders and by the government itself? Isn't that unfair? And many times I wonder if it's proportionately moral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question. First of all, I am given the opportunity to be in Parliament's Chamber a long time ago and to have this debate on the contents of the question you have put to the Minister for the Interior. I would like to stress that in this extremely difficult period that the country has spent and continues to travel, the government has supported with all its powers the institution of local government. However, local government itself has become a very strong factor in social cohesion and social solidarity, both through the provision of services that it is constantly required to offer to Greek society and the additional services that it has been able to offer to its citizens, especially to a number of vulnerable social groups. I would like to remind those who are in this Chamber, but also those who are following us that in the 'Help at Home' programme we have carried about a thousand two hundred workers working in social structures of local government who have been closed down, because of our own decisions, to deal with the crisis from the coronary pandemic. Also, 15,700,000 euros were given to 1st and 2nd degrees of self-government as emergency aid, to ensure human conditions of life and consumables needed in cases such as those that were dealt with. In addition, four hundred thousand masks were offered from the Ministry of Interior to local government to the "Help at Home" programme and 8,000 euros were given to the regions in order to support the need to feed some sixty thousand citizens throughout the country, for citizens in need and the elementary ones. I would like to stress, escaping from this written report, that without any doubt workers in the area of cleanliness have offered and continued to offer all this time and without any doubt a great deal of work. You described yourself the reply of the government's financial staff to the lack of financial resources in order to participate in the exceptional allowance granted to a number of categories of this period, which were at the forefront. I have no difficulty in telling you that I believe that the Greek society and the Greek state owe them people. At the moment we are not in a position to give this allowance. But we feel that we owe these people their contribution and they have. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Now, with regard to your question concerning the social structures of local government, there is the Committee of Public Experts, in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance are represented, which is expected to give an opinion on whether they fulfil the seven criteria laid down in the legislation on the treatment of heavy and unhealthy professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u35	And we, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u36	Mr Minister, you have further broadened the matter by saying what you have done, but avoiding saying what you have not done. But this is our role here, always kindly remind what we have not done. And I think that the face of the first pluralist is across the whole part of society and the workers who are currently listening to us and waiting. Recognizing that you owe them the allowance, but that you cannot give it, is an admission. Putting a timetable and saying that we are seeing it and we are trying to be consistent with it, too, would be something. However, I would remind you that at least this allowance must not be our hiding place, the point behind which we will find ourselves in order to hide for the rest. Heavy and unhealthy for many of the categories of these workers have no financial costs, because, as you know, it is a recognition of a legal and work texture, which is projected in the future, which concerns insurance and pension rights. It does not, therefore, concern budgetary costs for the present and the present. So for the heavy and unhealthy - which the Change Movement has brought here seven times, five with amendments and discussed in Parliament and you have, of course, rejected - we have every reason to say that it is uncollected for the majority of workers. So you can give it. That's what you can give. And let me say something, Minister, because on your grass you step on, in your field you are free to walk: do it, then, as the head of a ministry that plays a neural role in the crisis, something that we must of course recognise. I do not want to discuss the criteria you have said and the Committee of Experts. I'm going to ask another question to discuss this. But you really have the comfort and the law, but also the institutions to do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Madam President, without making a great deal of use of time. Look, here we have to deal with a serious crisis with people on the front and feel unjust to a very large extent. I have spoken frankly with them too many times, Minister, and I have seen that this bitterness is also diffuse in the area of their work, but also in social terms. It surrounds them, pays them, determines them and changes them. You don't want people different as your partners, if that's how you see OTAs and workers there. I think we should enter a post-Koronian era and still fight the pandemic to find ourselves in a different line of cruising. We can't have the same ship when everything shows that we have to go to restraining logic. You've said a lot about the free both masks and so on. I would remind you, therefore, that you have not yet given free masks to public workers and traders. And I'm telling you it's because I noted that you told us. And that is something you must do for the protection of both the world and for the protection of the employees. You will also have to respond, Minister, to the call of what you think is at the forefront and to the call of what you think they are really offering in the country. Today I saw an open call from the WTO - OTA saying that he wants to meet you, that he wants to discuss with you all the issues he has put on the table, such as that with the latest MIP you are actually recruiting them to clean up public spaces and so on. But can we really forget about a worker's working contract and as an ad valorem consideration not to recognise them as equals in the first line? I, at least every time I open the bin, think about it, just like I think about touching it. And you know what a lot of people do. After all, things have been published online about how we catch the bins, how they're left open, and how they're scared. Imagine those who cleanse them, those who disinfect them, those who care for us all. I do not think that your ministry's attitude is fair, but also a whole government's attitude to this matter, and that is why I think you should restore it immediately. And you know why, Minister? Because we'll find it in front of us. And I will not speak now about the Ottawa budgets. You mentioned that, but I won't say anything about it. We'll find everything in front of us. It's day after day and he's chasing us. You know the shadow itself is what we cannot disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u38	I'll repeat a few things, because we need clarification on one, two issues. I would therefore like to reiterate that I particularly respect the work done by workers as a whole in local government, and particularly those working in the field of cleanliness. We respect them with all our powers, and that is why, Mrs Liikanouli, I have brought these examples. I repeat that I feel that as a state, as self-government, we as a society owe them people. I didn't say we owe them an allowance. I want to be clear. I didn't say that. I didn't say we owe them an allowance. I repeat, I feel that as a state and as a society we owe these people. Yeah, we owe them. And you want me to tell you something else? And a bonus for them to get, we'd still owe them. They are doing a hard job, it is hard, it is declining, it is necessary and the reality is through the answer given to the financial staff of our Government that we do not have the financial possibilities to give them this allowance. That's the reality. And as you have also made references to the future, with the opportunity to say that I think we have left the hard stuff behind with regard to the health part of the crisis, or at least that's what it looks like so far. I hope this will be confirmed in the next two weeks. One must have no doubt that we have in front of us the difficulties of the economic side of this crisis and of the harsh fundamental wave that comes to affect the Greek economy, as will happen with the global economy, with economies such as the power of the United States of America and the entire European economy. And we must have a comprehensive plan and we must correctly distribute our powers to space and time to deal with these problems. Finally, with regard to the issue of the heavy and unhealthy regime for workers in the social infrastructure of self-government, I repeat - and it is not a formal answer - that the debate is pending in the Committee of Experts. I don't typically say it. I will monitor systematically the debate that is taking place there too to see what can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too, Minister. The third with number 653/4-202020 will now be discussed, first question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki, on the subject of "Aid for temporary benefits to workers in local administration". Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos will also answer this question. Here you go, Mr. Comrade. You have two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the government in conditions of pandemic highlights the role of self-government and even says it supports the municipalities in order to form a pillar of development, social cohesion, solidarity and go by saying. Objectively, the need to strengthen the role of municipalities with a peak in cleanliness for public health, their social services, infrastructure, support for workers in the LAGs, for the unemployed, for vulnerable households, for the elderly and for other categories. For cleanliness in towns, Minister, you said that it was one of the critical levels of public health protection, which means that these services must be adequately responded, and that can only be achieved if it is the exclusive responsibility of the municipalities. So, what does that mean? To burden people's families through tax payroll. But what did this pandemic show up, Minister? It showed how critical and decisive the role of the cleanliness of the municipalities, the "Help at Home", the other social structures and services is. It highlighted the irreplaceable role of workers who put 'plate' themselves and continue to put, at the risk of their health and life, in order to protect public health. The conclusion is that the cleanliness, 'Help at home', cleaners, social services relating to public health must be a universal right for everyone and should not be dependent on the State's rewarding and pockets of the people's households, which you have literally dried up for years all governments. The institutional framework of the 'CLISTITRIA' and 'CLISTEN' - which you have all put in your hand - is, in our view, a brake on this need. Before drying the ink of what you said about the critical sizes that I told you before and instead of serving with permanent staff all the services and abolishing all the restrictive Memorandum commitments to staff recruitment, through a series of legislative acts you have put in place a number of administrative acts to the municipalities, such as the one published on 13-3-2020. Although this MDG gives mayors the right to recruit by concise procedures staff for exceptional and unforeseen four-month needs, with the aim, as you say, of fighting the coronary, at the same time close the eye to contractors, giving the right to mayors through two-month assignments of cleanliness sectors by awarding procedure. In fact, some municipal authorities have avoided privatization - mainly due to workers' dynamic intervention - and have chosen to take four-month temporary staff. Others froze it, such as, for example, the case of the Municipality of Lagada, but with the municipality being with the finger in the trigger - and many other municipal authorities - and looking for the opportunity to implement the MDG to conclude the two-month contract with a private investor. And now we're talking with funny excuses. Minister, the workers would expect, in addition to the applause, words of sympathy and flattery on the part of the government, there would be substantial measures to support and recognize their work. I heard what you said earlier. It is true that you owe them not only you, but you all owe them over time. Therefore, apart from satisfying the request for the 13th and 14th wages in these working conditions, it would indeed be a relief to give them this minimum, that is to say, the grant of an exceptional employee allowance mainly to these cleaning categories, "Help at Home" and go by by saying. We are also asking you - and I would like to close with this - firstly, what measures will the government take to strengthen the state immediately and bravely the municipalities to meet all the needs that it seems, it seems, everything shows that the situation will intensify the island and mountain municipalities in particular. Secondly, we call for all services to be permanently staffed and all restrictive Memorandum commitments to recruitment should be abolished. Thirdly, we call for all provisions promoting anti-corruption regulations to be abolished, allowing the privatisation of services to be privatised in cleanliness, electric lighting, greening and the State to be exclusively responsible, with funding from the state budget and goes by saying. Fourthly, we call for remuneration to be guaranteed to workers with fixed-term contracts and salaries to be paid to municipal structures - they are still owed to them - to legal persons governed by public law and private legal persons who have been suspended for as long as necessary. Fifthly, we are asking for the allowance for unhealthy work to be granted to the public health supervisors of the regions that you did not answer the question we tabled to you as the Communist Party of Greece, saying that it is not your responsibility. But you must take a seat. The same applies to recycling plants and this should be extended to other specialities. Finally - and I thank you for the tolerance, Madam President - we are calling for the removal of any measure of forced existence for the municipality of professionals, private individuals, for the seizures, auctions, banking commitments. On these issues we call on you to take a position and that is what you owe the workers. So what are you gonna do about it? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u42	The main points of the answer I have to give to Mr Syntagakis have already been mentioned in the previous question. However, I am obliged at least to repeat these points so that they can be quite clear and obviously the answer to this question can be given separately. This government, Mr Syntagakis, supported by acts of local government - and the municipalities and regions - not only by words or only by proclamations. We have been next to the municipalities, mayors, municipal councillors and workers all this time. I have already omitted to say that the communication we have with our own workers and representatives and our doors is open to everyone. We supported self-government by acts, with strong exceptional financial support, in order to meet the additional needs created. I am in daily contact with the leadership of the CEDEFOP and the EIA. We have jointly studied the economic consequences of the heavy crisis that the coronary pandemic predestinates. We have jointly organised how to calculate the necessary costs to meet the mandatory deficits that exist in the area of self-government. You know that, in cooperation with self-government, the government has interrupted the payment of municipal fees, the fees for businesses which have closed down all this time of quarantine. This has led to a much lower revenue in the budgets of the municipalities and now we are going to cover them. We did so with agreements with the Deposit and Loan Fund, in order to allow the Fund to freeze at least three instalments of the loans owed by the municipalities to the Deposit Fund, as well as exceptional financial assistance, which is to be granted over the next few days and which will be allocated on the basis of objective criteria, based on the actual needs of the municipalities, and in cooperation with the Central Association of Greek Municipalities. I said all this to prove - in addition to what I said earlier in reply to Mrs Liikanouli - that this government supports local government and self-government workers through acts. From there on, I have made it clear that, for budgetary reasons, there is currently no possibility of an additional exceptional allowance, as mentioned in the question you have put to me. I would also like to make it clear that in our understanding of the private sector's use of services is not a negative factor. We legislated in September - I personally as Minister of the Interior - the ability of local government to conclude contracts with private companies in the area of cleaning, greening and lighting. Then I was accused of leading to redundancies of workers. It's been ten months since. Have you seen any workers get fired? No one has been fired either by the municipalities or anywhere else. But we give this opportunity to local government, because in many cases local communities and local administrations elected by the people who have voted for them find them more useful and costly and more effective to make use of these public services by private companies. I do not think that in the 21st century we should have such a negative attitude towards the private sector of the economy. They work there, too, with their own rights and obligations. Where local communities consider this to be more useful they can make use of these services. This means freedom of self-government and freedom to go ahead with its own decisions, whatever they are, and we must respect them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you are, Mr Synthraki, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u44	Minister, on the occasion of this pandemic you have found the opportunity to complete the work that had begun, of course, since the 1990s. And every government that came out - the New Democracy, the SYRIZA PASOK and the others - put its own little stone in this process. And it is the work that abolishes everything that prevents the privatization of critical sectors in the field of local administration and not just. And that, of course, is why you want the municipalities to connect more closely with the business groups, to open up the road to private capital, to infiltrate, get in and exploit such services and works by the municipalities. That's not bad for you to confess. You confess. You are consistent ideologically in what you believe in. You have now found the opportunity with these two-month contracts and with brief procedures from the economic committees of the municipalities to do so. There are enough willingness in this direction. It is also the CEDEFOP, which is a number of mayors and regional leaders all over the country. You say no one was fired. Thessaloniki: The municipality in the middle of a pandemic fired workers from the 3K proclamation, cleanliness, while at the same time making a contract with the same individual for another two years by direct assignment to the cleaning machine with the sum - if I am not mistaken - near the 5 million euros. The Municipality of Rethymno spends 1,600,000 euros a year, almost 30% of annual cleaning revenues for a cleaning contract, while one third of this amount could have been in charge of the municipality and a lot more staff. The same is happening in the city of Hersonissos - I am bringing examples from my own region, which is a tourist municipality - which spends 2 million euros. In fact, on the occasion of the debate on the municipal councils for discharge or suspension of fees on workers and families, there were mayors who did not accept it. And you know why? On the grounds that, in the event of a reduction, they will not have to pay the contractor. This is evidenced in the pandemic that privatisation does not ensure public health and public interest. From this point of view, your governments who sacrifice the health and protection of the people on the altar of profits are criminalised. With regard to the solutions, now that you say that you have given, they are not escaped from the restrictive government policy. In fact, you are highlighting the problem as a more liquidity problem and not as a question of the immediate and brave funding of the municipalities and regions. In economic deadlocks, for example, you brought the MIP, which enables municipalities with problems to receive as an advance payment some of the central independent resources they are entitled to and which will return in eighteen instalments, not more than seventy-two instalments if they cannot respond. In other words, municipalities are being called upon to stand up today, exhausting any state funding from the future. In other words, this amount will be retained by future grants from the centralized own resources that they would receive anyway. It is therefore a facility that behind it is substantially the reduction, further reduction, of funding for the municipalities. This measure on the freezing of the instalments of the municipality's loans through the Deposit and Loan Fund for the next three months does not solve the problem, Minister, and you know it very well. In relation to the interruption of the fees to entrepreneurs, shopkeepers and so on, there's a lot of talk here. Exemption, suspension, retrospective return to the course? For how long and taking into account all these restrictive conditions in relation to the bank distances and going by saying? You must be quite clear about this, and we are really asking for an answer that you should give. And, of course, the Antonis Tritsis programme, with which the municipalities will be financed, comes to solve the problem. And mostly do you know why? It's not just that you give 2.5 billion. Yeah, you give $2.5 billion, but where do you give them? You give them to very selected areas, such as waste management, water management, liquid and solid waste, digital applications, city property exploitation, alternative tourism, construction of public and private school buildings, children's stations, and others, which show the state and the bodies are coming forward to pull this fragrance of the capitalist economy and development that you assemble. And, of course, support for 'Help at Home' and 'Help at House plus' in fact what does it mean? In fact, it marks a shift in the operation of funding to the municipalities. In other words, once again, you are unloading more responsibility from the state to the municipalities. And by this notice you are making, which relates to two thousand nine nine workers in the programme, it will not change the situation with regard to the staffing of this programme that has proved to be decisive, effective and necessary and that many more workers need to be involved in this programme. To conclude, Madam President, we say that we have another logic for the municipalities and regions that could really be tools, to relieve workers and especially in such conditions and could improve the position of the people's families. But you are giving priority to a policy that municipalities and regions must serve: the market policy, the European Union, the policy that in any case directs you and tells you that you must implement the Greek Industrial Association yourself. Workers will obviously not remain silent. We may wear the mask, but this mask has a voice and we are standing and strong just to fight these reactionary and anti-grassy policies. At last, give me something. Is that so great is the poverty and inefficiency of your policy for workers and effective for serving the few and the strong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u46	To clarify the reality a little, because there are one, two issues which you did not accurately describe. The first issue is the Ottawa finances. I repeat and make it clear that during the crisis, especially the two-month quarantine, we have taken some first steps. One of you described it. It concerns the use of central independent resources earlier with the possibility of returning within six years. The second is heard and believe me that the mayors attach great importance to this. They frozen three instalments of loans to the Deposit Fund and we are in serious discussion with the Minister of Finance and the leadership of the Deposit Fund in order to find additional facilities for local government for the next period. The third one, which I mentioned earlier, but which you have omitted, is this: the government has provided exceptional financial support for the municipalities - I repeat, because I want it to be clear - beyond what was foreseen, aid which we will do with objective and fair criteria in cooperation with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, depending on the amounts and percentages which will be left to cover the budgets of the municipalities. In other words, the consequences of this crisis must be measured, because obviously, as you can see, the consequences in an area where its tourism product can be very badly affected - perhaps, we will see how things go, we cannot yet be absolutely certain - and different in another region. So the economic problem of OTAs not just left self-government alone, but we support it with actions and with specific projects, and that is why selfgovernment has played a very positive and creative role in social solidarity and cohesion at a very difficult time for the country. I would also like to tell you that this government is determined to carry out a major reform, which the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis himself, and the supposed Minister of Interior, which is about multi-level governance, with further strengthening of the powers of the municipalities and regions. I hope and believe that this reform will not be dealt with in a dreadful way, but will be supported by all the wings of our Parliament, because I believe that we must all want to further strengthen this institution, which is the institution of Parliament and which is closer to the citizens. As far as the Antonis Tritsis programme is concerned, you have described very well its priorities, its hierarchies, and I estimate that in two weeks we will all be ready to make all these calls for local government, with the main aim of not having a single municipality that does not benefit from this programme and of allocating resources to the most fairer way. I hope that in future we will have the opportunity to discuss this very thoroughly again. They did not see where you find the evil that this government in the middle of a coronary has found the possibility and the way to ensure EUR 2.5 billion for the municipalities and regions, which will provide 40 000 jobs in the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u47	Others called it, and SYRIZA said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u48	You spoke about our development model. I have no idea what your development model is. Our aim is to develop the economy, to develop the private sector in the economy, to develop jobs and through it all in a society with more rights, more opportunities and more pay for both workers and professionals and for the business community and for all, because, in our view, divisions and divisions can be submitted with a ambiguous class division of society. You saw that what he taught us and the recent coronary pandemic is that when one talks about life and death we are all the same and equal, we are all equally threatened and no one is saved from such situations. Let us keep the messages of unity and solidarity with which the Greek society has overcome this very difficult situation, of course, thanks to the very timely and critical decisions made by the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which was not very sure that could be made. In the rest of Europe everyone came after Kyriakos Mitsotakis, they all came after Greece, and the country was able to set an example after ten years for the whole world, while, unfortunately, the 'black sheep' was for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Minister. The second question under number 657/4-5-2020 will be discussed in the second half of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Christoforou Vernardakis, with the Minister of Home Affairs, on: "Privatization of the administration of the Hill Philippupou by an anonymous company of OTA in breach of law". The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Theodorikos. Come on, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, at the beginning of March we voted for Law 4674/2020. I understand that that day there was a load of amendments and it might not have been understood exactly what was voted on. You have brought an amendment setting up a public limited company under the supervision of the local government bodies under the name 'National Garden - Metropolitan Green S.A.', which also includes the development of the Philippi hill. However - take note here of what has been happening - since 2008, the Philippopoulos Hill has been classified as an organized archaeological site and as it has been in place since 2002, archaeological sites have been subject to a special protection regime and management has been run by the public and, in this case, by the Ministry of Culture, since this is the supervising body or supervising body of the Ministry of Culture. I was struck by the fact that, while the amendment - the Minister of Culture was tabled at that time - and despite the fact that we have an unprecedented invasion into the competence of the Ministry of Culture of the Interior, there was no reaction. This amendment has been passed without a picture of the overall regulation of what is happening. Evil legislation is obviously not in place, because it has not been consulted, and it is obviously on the leg - and I would say, of course, that there is also a distinct legal provision, because in your legislation there has been the possibility of establishing special-purpose companies on the side of local government, but there is also a need to identify the area and the legal status and so on. Of course, "ball" also takes the archaeological site of Philippi. The question is simple: What will you and the Government do to restore legality, because here we have a direct violation of the archaeological law and constitutional legality?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You were consistent. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u52	I would like to make a clarification about the facts in order to clarify the facts, because if the data are not valid, it is clear that the two questions you have tabled, Mr Bernardakis, do not apply at least one. The first question you have in your written text says: 'Is the Minister asking why he privatizes and trades the administration and management of the Folketing Hill, contrary to the public interest and the existing legislation?' There is no - I must inform you and reply to the National Representation - privatization and commercialisation of the administration and management of the Phillipou Hill. Under Article 100 of Law 4674/2020 the public limited company was established under the name "National Garden - Metropolitan Park S.A.". This company, based of course in the Municipality of Athens, has as its sole shareholder the Municipality of Athens. It is neither private company nor privatise anything nor merchandise anything. In fact, the shares of the Municipality of Athens - which is the sole shareholder - are non-transferable. It is legally binding that the Municipality of Athens cannot do any of these shares as far as their ownership is concerned. Also, this company is run by an eleven-member board of directors, chaired by the mayor of Athens, which means not one private businessman, but the man elected by the Athenians to the post of mayor and the other ten members are appointed by the municipal council of the Municipality of Athens. Therefore, I honestly wonder how one can substantiate that with us this legislative provision we privatised and traded the administration and management of the Philopapu Hill. I want to be perfectly clear. This amendment, which, regardless of the form it has taken, was tabled after a corresponding debate and a request, obviously - I think it is quite understandable - from the Municipality of Athens. It satisfys the Ministry of Interior, we satisfied this legislation, a request from the Municipality of Athens that was submitted, because in this way there can be much more effective a series of things that deal in particular with the management of cleaning in the hill area, the possibility of accepting donations for things related to the exploitation of the beach. I don't find anything negative about that. I also want to tell you that, in any case, I find it quite obvious that the Municipality of Athens on all these issues should be consulted with the Ministry of Culture, with its services and its political leadership. However, this is not an issue in any case of proper administration and management, which I have no doubt in any case that the Municipality of Athens will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, let's get things started. Obviously there is a privatisation process, but I did not stand by my first speech. It is clear, however, that your answer was the expected, and so on. I hereby declare to you that you are setting up the special-purpose company as S.A. What is the possible privatisation, as it is not certain that it will occur? The possibility of privatization therefore lies in the fact that the company can do, as it does with other places, a contract of award with private operators and so on. Let's keep this. We have an ideological disagreement as to whether privatisation is a good or bad thing in public spaces. My question - and I really want your answer - is this: we have a legislative sequence in the archaeological area. We have a forecast by the legislator over time that says that such types of company should only be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture or some supervised by the Ministry of Culture. Now that you're another ministry, you come, you're invading the jurisdiction of another ministry and you tell me that you do it because the Municipality of Athenians told you. I know that, it's obvious. The question is, this whole sequence is illegal. I will read to you only the report from the General Accounting Office of the State of 2019, which refers to the need at the time to protect the archaeological monuments, which reads: "They are placed outside of the transaction and are inextricably usable on condition that they belong to the property or the public..." - speaks about the archaeological sites and continue - "and the cause of their acquisition or their use or management by the Ministry of Culture and Sport is related to the service of the public purpose of protecting and promoting the cultural heritage, the newer monuments..." etc. This is where you have to answer. Legislation in the competence of another Ministry, you are legislating in breach of the existing legislation. Did you cancel the 2002 legislation? Has he gone to the repealed provisions? Did you annull the ministerial decision and the archaeological sites of 2008? Did you annul the amendments made in 2019, precisely to protect the privatisation of the Archaeological Areas' Fund? That is the main question. For privatisation, we will disagree, but in any case let us not stay on this. Answer me to the administrative, institutional and legislative part and tell me: Have you done good legislation? Did you check what you were voting on? Will you rectify the illegality in which you have suffered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u56	I answered both points earlier, Mr President. I'll repeat them if they'll be cleared up. First of all, as far as the first is concerned, it is not an ideological issue. Don't confuse it. Obviously, we believe in the private sector of the economy and the public partnership with the private sector. Obviously. You tell us you don't believe. However, this is not the case here. Here the discussion is that this anonymous company has a shareholder, the Municipality of Athens, has president the mayor of Athenians and the board of directors, which consists of ten people who choose the municipal council and has an absolute term of our legislation, that the shares of the Municipality of Athens are not transferable. That's not an ideological issue. That's a real fact. The second point on which you are obviously standing much longer, I explained it from my introductory position: any acts, studies, actions, interventions on this particular area, which the municipality can carry out today, should be carried out in close cooperation with the Municipality of Athens with the respective departments of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which in any case has its own framework of control for these tasks. That is why I said earlier that I consider it self-evident that the cooperation and proper and good management on the part of this company should always be carried out in cooperation with the services of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. We will now discuss the first with number 649/30-4-2020 the second question of the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sunday Malama to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The Halkidiki tourist economy is fighting for the next day". The Minister of Tourism will answer Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the statements made by the Ministry of Tourism's leadership have been unclear throughout the previous period. You were talking about health protocols, health passports, operational rules that will be defined in the future, about air connections that we will see in time how they will function. Even in your last speech at a party meeting in New Democracy, you raised the issue of the health passport, which tourists should bring to our hotels to host. However, there has been no specific clarification for all of this so far and there has been no time when hotels, tourist accommodation and camping in Halkidiki, small and large, remain closed without knowing exactly when they will open. The questions put by all the collective operators of Halkidiki tourism are very specific: When will the tourist season begin for Halkidiki? Why can't seasonal tourist accommodation be opened at the same time as the 12 months of operation? Are health conditions other than those at work? The vast majority of Halkidiki's accommodations are small and medium-sized and there is no crowding. Why, then, so late and especially why is there no information from now for the hotel owners to arrange as many reservations as they have left? Also, what about the axes? Will hotel owners be forced to open with half-costs? Why are there no answers, Minister, to all this? What about the Halkidiki camps that have already been cancelled by almost all their scheduled groups for this year? What health protocols will be required and when will they be opened? What will happen to the changes in the accommodations? Should it be left between leaving and coming tourists 24/7 for disinfection? Minister, all these questions are not at all theoretical, but professionals in Halkidiki expect concrete answers now, because they have been seeing the season destroyed for a month. Their accommodation is empty, the ambiguity of government statements immersing them more and more in uncertainty. We would therefore like specific answers to the questions raised and not announcements and wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u59	And we, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, my colleague, you have asked a question on 30 April and, since then, on 4 May, I have been here, on this Step and have given the lines on which the project will be based and based which the Ministry of Tourism has been working all along in very good cooperation with the regions, with the other Ministries, with the EGE, with all those involved and of course with the private sector. We have told you that this project is complete and moves on five axes. I don't think it's worth it again. You insist on a logic of ambiguity and questions. I presented last Monday and said what the timetable will be in relation to the first issue you raised, the health protocols, which you say are unknown to hoteliers. I assure you, on May 8th, we said as a ministry from this Step forward that they will be ready. Earlier the SETE, the EU, POX and the social partners were given early. The President of WIPO also happens to be from Halkidiki. The interventions to be made are already well known, at least as an institutional proposal from the Ministry of Tourism to the operators. Of course, we are in a process of consultation with which we will make the last corrections, always under the guidance of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who will also make final decisions on the government. Therefore, the issues are well known to the relevant bodies, the timetable is maintained with improved time and, of course, there are more specific interventions, other interventions which will take place over time, so that we can help all the tourist traffic in the country and in particular in Halkidiki, or, if you like, Northern Greece, which has a speciality. It is mainly based on road tourism, a tourism that has many advantages, in the sense that since a family is in its car it feels safer and makes it easier to make a holiday through its car. In other words, like internal tourism, it is a tourism that is easier to start. This will therefore be considered and supported by tourism in northern Greece, so that we can have the start-up that is necessary. There is therefore no ambiguity. There are concrete proposals. There is a specific plan and there is a government that listens to the market, listens to the Greek hotel owner, listens to the Greek tourist agent, listens to all the tourism business and combines in a very difficult environment the conditions that - I must say, as I have stressed last week - we will take advantage of them. But, healthally, we are still at a time when we do not know - because you know that our doctors are telling us that we want 15 days - if the gradual removal of internal restrictions is done in such a way and in response from the world, so that control is not escaped. This government will not jeopardise the health of the Greek people. However, if there is a coordinate procedure which allows us to open up the tourist economic activity, you can be sure that we will do so, in cooperation with the hoteliers and Halkidiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have not answered the specific questions I have put to you. On the contrary, according to what we read at "Capital", on Friday night you presented the protocols in an online debate on EMU. You presented the protocols to EMU. Is that your suggestion of tourism? Not in the House, not in the professionals, but in the ONNED online event! In fact, this video has specifically been downloaded from the Internet. So, are those protocols that you presented at the ONNED event online? Because you didn't tell us anything specific here. You told us everything would happen in the right time. Was that the right time? Is that who you meant? Answer me that question. Is that what you got off the internet? Or was it just a superficial weblight, which you withdrew, and now there's no video on the Internet? Nevertheless, I will insist and tell you that Halkidiki's professionals broadcast SOS. They have nothing specific, beyond what they saw online and which, right now, does not exist. Of course, and we have also spoken with the bodies and associations and unions of workers, professionals, all professionals. And I will come back to other questions. Do you know when air connections will be restored to the countries of Europe? As we foreign officials understand, some countries, such as France, Great Britain and Spain, may not restore them or even allow them by imposing a fourteen-day quarantine on returnees. So do you have any specific information on this? Are you talking about this with your European counterparts? Your answer is critical, because Halkidiki Hoteliers are waiting to see if they will cancel reservations, Minister, and whether they will be able to look for new customers in these countries in time. The second crucial issue is road tourism. Road tourism is very important. So I ask: When will the border for Halkidiki road tourism be opened? That is a very big question, Minister, because tens of thousands of reservations depend on your answer. What countries do you discuss? With the Balkans? Bulgaria? Serbia? Romania? North Macedonia? Are these countries in your mind? We are talking about millions of tourists, who have already paid accommodation, have already made advances for June, July and August and are waiting. This is very important for you to answer, at least for road tourism. Of course, we would like you to reply if you have discussed with the relevant government ministers how to support with tax exemptions tourist businesses and how to deal with enormous unemployment in this sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u64	I'm not sure what you're blaming this government for. For the coronary? The government first tackles the health issue, seriously. In the second year, internal measures will be lifted, seriously. The first of every other European country is to present the steps, if and as I say again - doctors allow us to move forward in the next steps. And we'll be here to make the announcements when we have to. After all, there is no other country that has made announcements to us that we have been delayed. It's a critical period. It is a period when the assessment of the first lifting of the measures is ‘current’. We need to see her. And we are doing from this step and from every step, whether collective or individual, our appeal to the Greek people that we must observe what experts tell us, as we have done with so much politeness and so much success so far. It's a prerequisite. It is the week in which Europe makes crucial decisions. And, of course, there are discussions with all countries, with too many. And some of them are more advanced, some are not. It's not every country in the same situation. Unfortunately, there are countries that are still in the deep crisis of the coronary. And we're three steps ahead. Is it the government's fault, too? It's Mr. Mitsotakis' fault, who's ahead of the rest of the leaders, who made the right decisions? So the discussions are taking place. However, they will also depending on the ability of the other side to discuss. I can assure you, therefore, that, at both European and bilateral level, appropriate action is being taken so that there can be appropriate agreements to start tourism. However, this will be done with caution to the health of the Greek citizen, with care to the health of any guest, who will honour us with his presence today. So to respond specifically to the issues you have said, you know that there is a task force, a Task Force for tourism, within the government, with the coordination of the Ministry of Tourism. And all the measures, both in health and in economic, diplomatic and marketing terms, but also at all levels, with the efforts already made and then, will be completed when it is mature to happen. This is a week of importance. The plans are all set and will be considered by the Prime Minister, under the direction of which we are constantly working, and the final decisions will be made and announced when necessary. The protocols have been in the social partners since Thursday. I thank them publicly from this Step, because our cooperation continued within the weekend and we are at the final stage of the consultation, an institutional process that we will be taking without delay. All the rest are parasiology, which I do not intend to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-11-S1-commons.u66	With the consent of this House at 19.29' the sitting is closed for Wednesday, 13 May 2020 at 9: 00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
