ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 20-10-2020 authorisation, its minutes of Tuesday 20 October 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: "Since 24-9-2020, its amendment from 26-7-2020, the Donation Convention between the Greek State, the Social Benefit Foundation under the name "ALEXANDROS S.ONAIS" (ALEXANDER S. ONASSIS PUBLIC BENEFIT FOUNDATION), based in the VADUZ of LIECHNTEIN, and on the Onion of the Card Occupational Centre (N.P.I.D.).), urgent arrangements to address the risk of the spread of COVID-19 and other provisions.’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS From the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs we received the following letter: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Wednesday 21 October 2020. The topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: The Question No 75/19-10-20 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "High-healthy and dangerous work for the workers of the three state theatres", will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis. The question by number 78/19-10-2020, by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The prolonged restrictive measures in certain prefectures also impose, directly and directly and indirectly, support measures for enterprises, professionals, farmers, workers, unemployed and vulnerable social groups", will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vésiropoulos. The Question No 70/16-10-2020 by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It does not apply the existing legislation protecting disabled people, e - EFKA, will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The question by No. 71/19-10-2020, by MP B2' Western Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "In desperation the affected farmers - farmers of Carditsa" will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Konstantinos Skreka. We will begin with our second question under the number 75/19-10-2020 of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Yiannis Delis, on the subject: "The unhealthy and dangerous work of the workers of the three state theatres". The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Theodoros Skakakis. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you said a moment ago, our question concerns the workers of the three state theatres, the administrative and technical staff at the National Opera, the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece. These workers since 2011, Minister, in their resolution by the PASOK government, then, of the so-called single wage, in addition to the other reductions suffered by all civil servants, have suffered a further significant reduction in their wages, as they have lost the right to receive the allowance for unhealthy and dangerous work. Only milk has been given to them since then as a memory of this allowance, but also as proof, we say, of their unhealthyness and the risk of their work. In this regard, Law 4024/2011 stated that in order to benefit from the unhealthy allowance, a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance had first to be adopted, and the terms and conditions for granting this allowance would be laid down. But this joint ministerial decision was never adopted. Instead of this ministerial decision, the whole period of these workers were collected from a number of promises, without any reflection, as proved by the relevant ministries and also by the Ministry of Culture, that they will supposedly re-examine the matter. They invoked the extensions which were given in the six-month period originally provided for in Law 4024 and waited - it says - for the decisions of the various committees on the specialisations which would be entitled to this allowance for unhealthy and dangerous work. Meanwhile, since 2012, this unhealthy and dangerous work allowance has started to be granted - and very well, we say - to the respective workers of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, a ministry that, if you remember, had been united. It's the well-known, you're gonna tell me, break-up wage tactics in all the government that follows, but all the governments. Until we arrived in 2015, and the SYRIZA government is voting for n.4354, i.e. a payroll - poor note and abolishing the relevant provision - the 2011 SYRIZA Act on Unhealthy Benefit. So, after all this, Mr Minister, what measures will you take, what measures will you take, so that they will also receive retrospectively the allowance for unhealthy and dangerous work, all the specialities that received this allowance, which was guaranteed through their collective agreements, and which were taken until the adoption of Law 4024/2011? And what you will, of course, do to complement the relevant bodies of the general government in addition to their budgeted grant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u5	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. This is an opportunity to discuss this issue. Before entering the technical detail, I would like to say two things that are more generally related to budgetary policy at this time. On the basis, as you know, of the decisions of the European institutions for this year and of the year we have so-called budgetary freedom. There's the general escape clause. This clause, however, has a basic prerequisite for its implementation. It does not include permanent budgetary measures. So we cannot put permanent budgetary measures on wages, such as the allowance for unhealthy work. However, there is, under the 2018 Act, a committee that has been set up and is examining - it is also a Memorandum Responsibility that we have had since us - the whole issue of the benefits of dangerous and unhealthy work and it will propose an overall approach, taking into account the experience we have at this time of pandemic. More generally, there are two issues which need to be taken into account for the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work. The first is that we should normally try not to be dangerous and unhealthy in terms of its conditions. We must improve conditions, that is. The purpose is not to have allowances. The second is that allowances must be given not on the basis of the trade union power of one or other union, but on the basis of the facts, as the scientific study results from each workplace. Unfortunately, this was not the usual practice, by which the Greek state decided on these benefits over time and the transition from one system to another is not easy. Now, in this case legislation has changed and the interpretation given by the General Accounting Office is that the relevant decisions are not lawful. In any case, however, all these issues will be re-examined at the beginning of next year - I hope that they will also emerge from the pandemic - so that, in 2021, we can see the whole issue of unhealthy work allowances. We will give the committee a slight extension to complete its work by April, and then we will evaluate the findings, to see the overall reform in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to the Minister's reply. It was initiated by the European Union's strategy, from the clause on infamous budgetary freedom, that it cannot be of a permanent nature. We're keeping this. I have also kept what the Minister said about the committee, which deals with the classification of occupations subject to state of health and dangerous work and which will be extended until April 2021. Let me say here that 2021 has been completed ten years since this allowance was abolished. If a state takes 10 years to document, to decide which occupations are unhealthy and dangerous, what can I say? Of course, we agree that working conditions should be improved. But, you know, that has a limit. Some jobs will still be unhealthy and dangerous. We are talking, Minister, about people who work as stage engineers - to be clearer - about engineers, about speakers, about electricians. All of them work at a very high height, you know, at the tents, the gigs, theatres. We are also talking about irons, about raptors, about clothing workers, about hairdressers, about those who don't look in order to complete a performance. All those with their struggle had won, Minister, the reception of this unhealthy and dangerous work. In fact, they had passed it in their collective agreement, because it was quite simply a fair request and because they work in very difficult circumstances. We believe that there is still an injustice between the specific workers of the qualifications concerned in these three theatres and we still consider that they are exposed to them by all the governments, who have done nothing to return the allowance they receive, so that - clearly - the reasons are budgetary for all these years - to save money from the three state theatres and more generally from the bodies of the general government. In the meantime, there are some interesting facts, Minister. I'll testify one. We have the administration of the National Lyric scene, which, on January 22, 2020, pleads and agrees to the grant of the unhealthy allowance by letter to the relevant Ministries and to yours. It is also signed by the President of the Board of Directors of the National Lyrical Tent and by the artistic director, documenting in a characteristic and very substantial way the unhealthyness and risk of the work of these specialties. Furthermore, this proposal of the administration of the National Lyrical Scene has also been captured in the collective labour agreement signed by employees with the administration of the National Lyrical Tent a few months ago, on 30 July. It is clear that the New Democracy Government also continues the same policy from where the previous governments left it. All governments are responsible. And in any case, the New Democracy - as we remember - voted against SYRIZA's Law No.4354 in December 2015. It turns out, do nothing to re-evaluate the allowance, that this vote against the law of SYRIZA was hypocritical and opportunistic. We believe that the government has the responsibility, has the right - and we would say - to ensure that these workers receive the allowance of the unhealthy and dangerous work they are entitled to and so unfairly reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u8	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u9	I will not need that, Mr President, so much time because the honourable Member has not raised much different issues. I would just like to make two points. One is that unhealthy work is not confirmed by administrative letters, but by scientific studies. This is more than I would prefer to accompany the letters, so that we can make reasonable and rational decisions that are fair to workers. The second is a practical issue. Collective agreements - as you know - want the signature of the Minister of Finance as far as the public is concerned. If there is no sign of this, which is one of my responsibilities, they do not have the power. I'm telling you about the legal part of the case. In any case, my personal opinion is that anyone who actually works in dangerous and unhealthy conditions must receive this allowance must be compensated for it. But, as far as possible, we must treat workers regardless of where they are working, and what conditions they are working, in the same way, that is, whether they are in the private sector or in the public sector, whether they are permanent workers, or sometimes free professionals, who do the same work. Unfortunately, as we have been working relations in Greece, for many and various reasons, it is extremely difficult to achieve this. And that may be the subject of a more general involvement of all of us, of those of us who have real interest - and I do not doubt that - in improving the working conditions of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you both. We will continue with the third with number 71/19-10-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "In desperation the affected farmers - Cardits' livestock farmers". The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, one month after the disasters in Karditsa, the compensation has not actually been paid. You bring an amendment to solve and relieve farmers, which does not respond to key issues. At the moment many acres of cotton have been flooded, the damage is in 100% of production and yet it is not seen by the aerial photographs, as not all of the plant has been covered in the water, although production has been destroyed. Many acres have been flooded. ELGA does not compensate for the cultivation, but only for the harvest, despite the fact that, when the culture of the zero is flooded, this crop is always destroyed and not just the crop. Many animals have drowned or expelled because of stress. ELGA does not compensate this part of the stress miscarriage either. A large part of the feed stored was destroyed, much of the equipment was lost, ruined. At the moment we have the ELGA not to compensate for feed in storage, not to compensate for the cultures of the male, not to compensate for the animals which have expelled from stress from weather phenomena and to reduce the production of livestock at animal level and milk production. The compensation which it gives, where it is to be granted, relates to the premium, which is not defined by actual production, but by the average production in the last five years and the average price in the last five years. Reality is very different in the field. I invite you, and the farmers, and I invite you to listen to them, to make real checks, to get ELGA out in the field, to make controls, to see the real damage that these people have suffered and to be fully compensated. We are also asking for a timetable for these allowances, because a month, Minister, is already too long and does not seem to be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Screka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to thank the fellow Member who has tabled this question and given the opportunity to explain to the House, but also to the interested parties who are listening to us what the government is going to do and what he has already done to compensate in time and fair terms for those who have been hurt because of the Mediterranean cyclone 'Januanou', this uniquely severe and intensified weather phenomenon which hit areas in Greece, such as Thessaly, Fthiotida, Itonokarnania, the prefectures of the Peloponnese and also areas of Western Greece last month, 17 to 20 September 2020, when this bad weather has occurred. As far as the statements are concerned, it has so far been found that, for example, in the Carditsa Regional Unit we have eleven thousand eight hundred thirty-seven declarations for plant production damage. In the whole of Thessaly we have sixteen thousand three hundred sixty - three statements. It is estimated that the flooded agricultural area in Thessaly is close to three hundred thousand acres. We only have three hundred and ninety-four incidents of animal damage to the Carditsa Regional Unit. In the whole of Thessaly we have a total of twelve thousand six hundred ninety ovine and caprine animals dead by the flood, seven hundred thirty - six cattle and thirty - three thousand forty beehives. Of course I have to say that the ELGA and its services have been striving for a speedy struggle to proceed directly to the assessments so that they are immediately compensated - I repeat - and in a fair manner farmers. Already we have a hundred twenty geoponets and veterinarians, thirty-five are of the branch of ELGA Larisis and eighty-five are contractors, but also officials from other branches that have come to help. What have we done so far? We have almost completed the assessments of livestock. We have estimates of plant production. The work of labelling and demarcation of the flooded areas has been completed and the work of personalised estimates for all crops has begun, because you quite rightly said that many crops do not show by satellite photographs that they have been flooded in 100%, but have nevertheless suffered catastrophes and damages that can approach 100% of production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why - I conclude, Mr President - in addition to the overall assessments, which have been carried out with the help of technical means, there will also be personalised, of course, by three committees, which will determine the extent of the disaster and the financial damage suffered by each farmer or farmer in order to compensate him as a whole. From there on, I have to say that in order to compensate farmers in time or to provide financial support yesterday, we have introduced an amendment to the Greek Parliament as the Ministry of Rural Development, where we are giving the possibility of advances in respect of compensation for the farmer who has been affected. We have given the opportunity and we have heard this hat, the ceiling of 80% of the insured capital, i.e. a farmer who had suffered a loss close to 100%, was not compensated for 100% of the insured capital for which he pays contributions, but only 80%, and we, with yesterday's amendment, extend the compensation to 100% of the insured capital. We also allow ELGA to be subsidised and financially supported by the state budget in order to be able to meet its increased financial obligations due to the pandemic. Of course, we have also made other arrangements with regard to staff, support and compensation for the overtime work of the ELGA staff to do their job. Of course, unfortunately - and that is why your question today - you as a party did not vote yesterday for this amendment which allows farmers and those who have been affected, farmers and farmers to be compensated for. So the question is reasonable: once you are so concerned - as you mentioned with your position and your question - about the timely compensation for farmers, why yesterday we introduced this legislative provision, the amendment which enables them to be compensated in time, to be financially supported, you did not vote for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u14	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am deeply concerned because in your reply you seem to be unaware of this, you do not understand the subject and obviously do not understand why we did not vote on the amendment. Here we ask you to cover everything that your amendment does not cover. Obviously you have not understood it, and that is why you are asking why we have not voted on it. What are we asking you for? First, make personalised estimates, not for people to get the insured amount, the insured capital, but for them to get their actual loss. We don't call on you people to go and check their fields to get any more compensation than they deserve. We invite you to go and check their fields to get the actual quantity and price compensation. You send ELGA to give the insured capital, to compensate, which may be 60% and 50% of the actual capital. It is the amount coming out of the average price and production over the last five years for the whole region, obviously not personalised. We also call on you to say about what you are going to do with the loss of livestock, not covered by ELGA, for the miscarriages, for the animals that have been drowned, for the feeds that have been destroyed, not covered by ELGA, for the non-domestic, not covered by ELGA, only the current crop when all production is destroyed, i.e. all cultivation forever. Also, what about the equipment lost and destroyed? We ask you for very specific things and you either dodge or do not understand. I do not know what the worst is, but I would ask you to reply to the substance. So far you have told us what you have done without answering the questions that we are not putting them in the Cardiff society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u17	The ELGA compensates for loss of production, and of course the compensation will cover all the damage to production. The moment when the Mediterranean cyclone hit agricultural crops was just before production was harvested. So the labors of a growing year are lost. After all, in addition to compensation for lost production, we have the following damages: we have damage to herbal capital, so we have the destruction of multiannual crops, whether these are trees or natives, we have disasters in stables and agricultural facilities, we have damage to products and raw materials stored in the stable facilities. These are compensated by the CEECs, the State Economic Aids, the so-called CEECs. Of course, farmers, farmers and farmers have suffered damage and equipment, such as tractors, mechanical equipment, spraying. They have been damaged in irrigation systems, pumps and pomones they use. They have been damaged in European capital. What does it mean to have an alcohol chapter? It means that many fields have been covered by tons of bearers, bitches, which may make it impossible to cultivate these lands in the next growing season. It will also require money for farmers to be able to carry these land, their farmed areas in the former state, in good condition before the disaster, before the flood. So these damages, which are not covered by either the ELGA or the PSEA, will be covered by the possibility of expropriating regulations and by cooperation with the Treasury, as Mr Stagioras said yesterday. If you were here, you'd hear it. This will compensate farmers for all the damages. So, of course, we understand the problem very well. You know that I am elected in the Trikalon Prefecture, a region where many farmers have suffered significant disasters there. Over forty thousand acres have been drowned by the flooding phenomenon. And, of course, the whole government, and also Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who in the first few days have been at the scene of the flood and disaster, have clearly stated beyond all doubt that we will support farmers, farmers, farmers and farmers for all the damage they have suffered from this extraordinary severeness and weather situation. What we cannot understand, however, my dear fellow Member, is how you, while you are supposed to be interested in how they will be compensated and whether farmers will be compensated and, more quickly, yesterday when we brought an amendment that the majority of farmers who have been destroyed are able to make an advance payment of compensation and we support the ELGA in order to compensate all farmers in good time for this amendment as a party and as a party you are not voting on it. This really is very difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. We go to the first with number 78/19-10-2020 in the second question of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The prolonged restrictive measures in certain prefectures also impose, directly and directly, substantial support measures for enterprises, professionals, farmers, workers, unemployed and vulnerable social groups." In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I believe that you have been informed of the position of Minister Stakoura yesterday, who believes - as he has just revealed - that the memorials have brought the crisis and not the crisis of the Memorandums. This echoes that the problem of society's own lives is the cause of the restrictive measures which Mr Staikora has not had to take, in line with his thought and his proposal here for 2009-2010. Of course it is also worth your consideration, but in particular Mr Tsakloglu who is next to you. We would like him to tell us exactly whether this new news from Mr Stakoura to join the view of other parties after years, despite the fact that he was the sole manager of the second memorandum, is a good political practice. I am not a member of this opinion. I say clearly that the restrictive measures have naturally brought down recession and problems to entrepreneurship, work and the weak. The government has taken steps. We believe that it is not enough, and it is not targeted, because, as we proved in a three-fold question that we did the other day, large companies were satisfied with the requests made by the financial instruments for loans, the mid-50s and only 10% of small ones, of course, unlike the return-back tool that your Ministry handled, which has much better results. What, then, is the assessment, the evaluation? That we must take advantage of the measures they have taken and have been fair in relation to the social groups, workers and businesses that have been affected and move forward with them. So since local lockdowns have been launched, because today and yesterday in Maximos, it seems that there will be additional measures by region to tackle specific problems, what I am asking is not what measures you have taken so far, as is the case for all Greece and generally, but what measures are targeted at in the areas that are entering local lockdowns, such as Heraklion, which are now in a limitation of two months, so that there is no further slowdown, there is no stopping of recovery, as provided for by the 'OXFORD ECONOMICS', which speaks precisely about this point with specific elements that have been observed in other countries as well. And I would like your answer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, the government, often overcoming the country's financial possibilities, has shown in practice that it supports and will continue to support businesses, workers and households affected by the crisis. Within 2020, support measures will reach EUR 24 billion and the positive GDP footprint is 6%. If these measures were not there, we would be talking about a 14% recession, which would have a disastrous impact on the productive and social fabric. You refer to an existing problem that the government planned in time to deal with. The extension of restrictive measures in areas with a level level of three or four is a presumption that it requires additional assistance to support enterprises and workers. On Friday, October 16, together with the Ministry of Labour, we announced support measures such as: Firstly, the possibility of temporary suspension of a contract of employment for workers as long as the declaration of regional unity is in force at an increased risk level four. This means that workers will be beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation, and there is also full cover for their insurance contributions for this period from the State budget. Second, the grant of special compensation for the selfemployed, the self-employed and the owners of undertakings employing up to 20 persons with the company's seat in a regional unit, which is at level four. Where the length of stay at level four of the regional unit is fourteen days or less, the monthly special-purpose compensation will be EUR 300. Third, for undertakings located in a regional unit that has joined level four, VAT shall be suspended until 30 April 2021. As we have already announced, these debts will be repaid either in twelve instalments at zero rates or in twenty-four instalments at an interest rate of 2.5%, with the first instalment being paid in May 2021. Fourthly, for businesses, the principal residence of employees, and the student residence of dependent members, there is a 40% reduction in the rent, while for owners of these real estates one-third of the losses of their income will be offset by their rents, with tax obligations. There are other support measures to which I shall refer in my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u22	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because you referred to the country's economic potential, I have to make a point here too, that Europe has actually met the needs of all countries, and that is a very important share of EUR 32 billion. It would have been better if it were bigger, but the main issue is the proper use of it, so that the money would not be spent, but be exploited and captured. The second element is that there was a direct decision to facilitate the absorption of the current NSRP, where around EUR 12 billion is still unreported. Of course, we are also at the beginning of the drafting of the new ESRB. In short, resources are available. What we need is also to have a plan to make use of these resources, so that not only can we deal with the immediate problems, but also give the country a perspective. And that, of course, is a great debate, it is a matter on which the government does not seem to be doing well. And it is a question of when the 32 billion euro development plan will be submitted to us. On the subject, however, which we are discussing, I recognise that the postponement you have asked me and that we agreed was useful, because in fact if we were discussing the last Wednesday - before the Friday sitting - it would not be possible to discuss the concrete measures that you said today. And I think it is in the right direction, because local economies, unfortunately, are experiencing worse than the ones they have experienced in the Catholic Lockdown, because the economy around them works in the adjoining prefectures, and it is really a matter that should concern us. But I think, Minister, that there should be measures for level 3 as well. Level 3 don't ignore it. In many cases the rules laid down in level 3 are not complied with and there is a looseness. The rules of level 3 must also be complied with to deal with the pandemic, but there must also be support measures to ensure that there is no incentive to violate the rules laid down in level 3. In this sense, I would ask you to have a provision of measures for both level 3 and, of course, more specialisation and more measures for those who are not included in the plan, because I have seen an extension of work suspension, I have seen a corresponding decision for professionals and self-employed and micro-enterprises, the extension of the rental. For the weakest, measures are needed. Auctions cannot be made, for example, in these areas - it is not possible! - either level 3 or level 4. Your measures are in the right direction, but see that there are more obligations than VAT. It is an obligation to comply with regulations and a number of others. I do not want to put you in detail, because I think it is matters that you have in mind, but the negative recovery - because it is a negative phenomenon - of unemployment, unfortunately - requires that we have more measures for these regions. And I think you're personally interested. I would also like you to activate the co-responsible ministries and, of course, to take advantage of all the tools at your disposal, which are too much in terms of the budget. Don't invoke budgetary stewardship! The problem is to make good use of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u24	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr Colleague, as I told you in my prototype, there are other support measures. I consider it necessary, firstly, to clarify that the possibility of suspending contracts of employment for specific SARs, identified in the relevant SAR for October, applies to levels of health. These are businesses that are active in the field of focus, tourism, culture, sport, transport and other affected sectors. In addition, for companies with a turnover reduction, there is the possibility of taking part in the programme 'COMPANY WORK'. Now, as far as the follow-up to the measures that I mentioned before is concerned, it is the fifth measure that is linked to the strengthening of liquidity. It is provided for in the fourth phase of the repayable advance for all enterprises that have been located in a regional unit since August 2020 and for at least 14 days at the level of increased risk 4, a significant and brave aid. In particular, 50% of the amount they receive as a repayable advance will be essentially a grant and will not be reimbursed. Furthermore, for all undertakings that have been established in a regional unit since August 2020 and for at least 14 days at the level of enhanced surveillance 3 or under a specific restrictive scheme, no 30% of the repayable advance will be reimbursed. At the same time, for the firms affected, the suspension of the payment of loan instalments to financial institutions is still in force. The Government has already put in place significant tax relief measures for those affected by the consequences of the pandemic. I mention features: the reduction and in some cases the zeroing of the advance payment for businesses, the suspension of the obligation to pay the trade fee for the tax year 2019 for farmers under normal VAT arrangements. As well as in the case of coastal fishing fishermen operating either individually or in the form of a co-ownership or civil law, fishing vessels up to 12 metres in length, the reduction of VAT rates from 24% to 13% in transport, focusing on the tourist package, which was extended until 30 April 2021. The new debt arrangement for debts created between March and June 2020, but also the possibility of reintegrating into the arrangements for those who lost it, the possibility of setting up a maximum of a hundred and twenty instalments for repayment of debts arising from loans granted with the guarantee of the Greek State. As you can see, the government is constantly considering the new data and especially the new needs that arise and update its interventions. As I have already said, the big bet for all of us - and not just for the government - is to support those who really need it. Keep businesses alive, keep jobs. And when the recovery of the economy begins, we'll all be together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Now we will discuss the first with number 70/16-10-2020 in the first cycle of the Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It does not apply the existing legislation that protects people with disabilities. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the question is addressed to you because there are written complaints, but too many oral complaints, telephones, etc. I'll explain exactly what's going on. It's technically more. There is one topic that has created and created concern. You know very well that under Article 66 of Law No 4144/2013, as is currently the case and with which amendments have been made, it is foreseen that, in cases where the pension entitlement is terminated by ECAI pensioners and if it is pending at the ECAI Sanctions, there is an extension of the right to invalidity pension for six months with the same amount as for pensioners before the expiry of the right, of course, provided that this right exists for the health committee to be judged at least 67%. This provision applies not only to these cases, but also to all invalidity allowances, as provided for each time by the provisions in force, as well as to invalidity pensions, while health care is also extended at the same time. This care for people with disabilities is a basic provision of the Constitution, and of course it is also a fundamental pillar of the social state. The legislative provision is right, in our view, to protect these people, but, unfortunately, Mr Minister, in this regard - and that is the major one and that is why we ask you - it is being destroyed by the ECA, by the way it works. Why? Because it does not grant the pensions and benefits of the semester, with the justification "we don't have software, there is a problem with software" and something like that, but it still has cause for the software again. This is a matter that affects people with disabilities. You understand that. They are people with low incomes, low pensions and benefits. It's a weakness that's still about their survival. And we ask, then, whether this software will be corrected and when, in order to be able to settle this outstandingity, because it is a mismatch that creates problems multiplely and has not stopped. I personally have been surprised by the frequency of the messages I receive. I would like to ask you, Minister, in this respect. Also, in addition to people with disabilities, are there other cases that you know, to tell the House, where is the issue of this pendingity in relation to the software of the FBI? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Mulkiotis for his question, which gives me the opportunity to speak on the issue of policies for disabled people. The policies for the effective protection of disabled people are at the core of social protection policies, and this is something that is independent of the typology of the welfare state that follows a country. The issue of disability policies is really very high on the agenda of the government's policies. I will come straight to the core of your question about the lack of software in converting disability pensions into old age pensions. I will agree with you that this software, when it becomes fully operational, will greatly improve the living conditions of our disabled fellow citizens, will reduce the suffering they suffer, but will also reduce the overall bureaucratic costs, both on the part of the insured, and on the part of the FBI itself. According to the information I received yesterday from the FBI, the software under discussion, which we are talking about now, is at a very advanced stage. The assurances I received were that in a very short time - I will tell you in the next few days - we will have full functionality. It will soon be operationally available, and at this time the necessary checks and cross-checks are being carried out to make sure that it works properly, so that we do not have any incidents that we should try to correct later. Incidentally, I should like to point out that the development of all these systems is not simple, as you imply in your written question, and I would also like to say that we are all working in the ECA and the Ministry of Labour to normalise the situation. In any case, even with software pending, none of our fellow citizens remained unprotected and without income. In addition to the privileged benefits granted to a portion of our disabled fellow citizens, a temporary pension shall be granted for as long as the request for conversion is considered. I would like to remind you here that the government recently increased the amount of temporary pensions from 50% to 80% of the definitive pension for all insured workers and 70% for the selfemployed and farmers. With regard to the question of the termination of the invalidity pension, I would like to stress that if a medical crisis is pending in the relevant CEPR committees without the fault of the insured, then the right to their pension due to invalidity is automatically extended for six months. You mentioned it in your question, too. I would like to repeat and stress that the extension for the semester is done automatically. It is the exact same amount that pensioners received before the expiry of the entitlement - you mentioned it - since during the previous period they had been deemed to have had 67% invalidity. During the quarantine period additional extensions were granted as CEPR examinations were limited only to the examination of new disability applications. This also applies to all allowances granted as a result of invalidity with the rate laid down by the provisions in force in force and to invalidity pensions and medical treatment for all insured persons. Are there such cases that you say, but what are they? They are our handicapped fellow citizens who have lost the right because - either ignorance or ignorance - they did not make their application in time and the system automatically ceases this pension. These people are being re-funded, but they now need to go to the CSR for this examination. I would therefore also like to stress from this position that it is important for the citizens themselves to be consistent so that they do not really lose rights which they have and which improve their standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, let us say that ECA officials are making titanic efforts. Unfortunately, however - and we have also seen it with visits we have made to stores, such as Nikiforou, which we went with the President of the Change Movement - we have also seen the unacceptable conditions of operation of the ECA, the infrastructure that exists. I understand, you are a university teacher, you have a way and a function of another level, you realize how they work, you know them better. We're not honored the way the system works, not the employees. We employees reward them because they do the impossible. That's a fact. As far as this is concerned, for people with disabilities, there is the question that, although we have an extension - and we agree - and even though, as you said, these are happening in the six-month period, they are unfortunately not getting paid. There's a delay. I will also submit to the Minutes which have been sent to the President of the Change Movement, and according to it specifically, the question has been asked, because the others have been oral. There are also oral requests and complaints, which exist to us in the area of social and social affairs, for a long delay and the cause is software. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I don't know what's going on. The cause is software. This is an issue that, Minister, we would like you to see, because there are cases where - you will know - they have applications for two, three, four years and also because of software, the system is stuck. I won't say that the previous government did everything for the software. It is a situation that has remained and there are responsibilities. But you're one and a half years in the government. This cannot continue. Pensioners and disabled people have huge problems and you need to see them. I will give you some examples: applications for the conversion of invalidity pension into an old age pension, pensions of civil servants, pensions with a parallel time, and therefore an increase in the pension of 0.75%, former GAAP staff. It's issues. Example: a public engineer who paid contributions to both the public and the CMEA cannot get his pension, because there is no software to calculate the surcharge. That's what I'm talking about. These are matters that we need to deal with. And I say it in the first plural, but it's all about. But you now have political responsibility. You manage a portfolio of extremely important and crucial importance for the quality of life and the survival of people with low incomes. But you deprive them of them, the government at the moment has political responsibility - the pension for two, three, four years, because the software has not been built. What does that mean? That the software is inadequate, or does it mean that it's nonexistent? What happens with this software, anyway, and these people have such problems. We put it, Mr Minister, and another second question, which, if you wish, answer us. It's more of them. Tell us which categories, if you have knowledge, pending the operation of the program software in order to get the applicants retired. For what other cases there is a software issue and therefore there is an impediment to retiring. I would ask you, of course, not to tell us about the ATA. It's well known, we've heard it here, in the House, a thousand times. We want a concrete answer: are there other charges? What have you identified and what steps have you taken to satisfy these accusations? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, it is clear that the picture of the accumulation of outstanding pensions that prolong the suffering of pensioners and insured persons is not at all pleasant for the Ministry of Labour, nor for EFKA, nor much more for the citizens themselves who suffer this suffering. In fact, I would like to thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to inform Parliament of the great progress that has been made in this area over recent months. This progress is reflected in the information provided by the information system ‘LIOS’. That is, according to these figures, thirty thousand and thirty-seven final decisions on disability pensions have been adopted this year, and the rate of the issue of disability pensions on a monthly basis varies on average to 20% of the total pensions, when the average disability pensions in all pensions of two and a half million pensioners are slightly more than 8%. Again from the elements of HLIOS, which are made public every month by HICP, I would like to refer to two more results which are also measurable. Last year, in the first half of the year, the average rate of the issue of disability pensions was 18%. This year, the corresponding number has been up to 21.4%. In fact, what we want for a long-term solution - and I think we understand all this - is to get out of this manual, i.e. the badges, the tabs, count them, and every time manipulate the calculations. There comes this issue, which you mentioned before, of software and this is in the broader context of the digital transformation of the EFKA, the e - EFKA, as it is now called. This is really a central priority of the present government and, obviously, of our Ministry and has been felt by both the resolution of Law 4670/2020 and the other regulatory acts that have been and are planned to be adopted. A great deal of effort is being made to overcome the inertia of previous years and we have achieved significant results in the transition to the digital age. According to the programming of the administration of EVA, by the end of 2020 what we are waiting for is for all disability pensions to be integrated into the automatic pension system. Ambiguous target! We think we'll get him. It is all about putting the corresponding awards into operation since March 2021, that is to say, that the software will be ready, that the first real pensions will be paid back then, and what we hope will be that the other old age pension categories will have joined at the end of next year. In other words, we hope that at the end of 2021 some 80% with 85% of the pensions awarded will be received electronically. Incidentally, in this context, we hope that this issue will also be resolved, which you are referring to and which is there. I've been looking for it. It's the second part of your question. There are, indeed, groups. They're small, very small. In other words, when I asked which is the largest of them, it was at a very small percentage of the total pensioners of IKA, but it is a problem and we hope that this will also be solved through all this upgrading of the system I mentioned earlier. The examples you mentioned earlier about parallel and successive insurance are indeed valid. Especially after the so-called Katorugalou law, the system has become incredibly daunty and every day we try to facilitate the issue of circulars, which are immediately put into effect. Let me refer to something more general that matters in relation to your question. As regards the general approach to disability by the government, we have chosen to adopt a global approach rather than a fragment, as was often the case in previous years. The National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is implemented for the first time by the Migration horizontally, in accordance with the United Nations guidelines, with the coordinating responsibility of the Minister of State, on the basis of Article 69 of Law 4488/2017. In this context, the General Secretariat of Social Security and E-ECA, which is responsible for operating the Disability Certification Centres, have included a set of actions, which aim firstly to improve the quality of the services provided, secondly to reduce the suffering and waiting time of insured persons, thirdly to digitalise the procedures of the CSDP, fourthly to improve and strengthen existing infrastructure, fifthly to renew or and train human resources, and in particular to provide health services, sixthly to harmonise the rules on pensions and disability benefits in the context of social security, and finally to strengthen the right model under the United Nations agreement. We recognize the problems that exist and we are really working towards resolving as many of them as possible and within as short a period of time as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. At this point we will be adjourning the sitting and returning at 12 noon on the subject of this House's work: debate and decision on applications for waiver of immunity from Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity of Members: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity of Members of Parliament, Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis and Mr Ioannis Mellas. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 14 October 2020, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis. Also, by the same committee, the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, the report was announced on 14 October 2020, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the lifting of the immunity of Mr Ioannis Mellas. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, this procedure has triggered the new electronic roll-call system. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. A letter of vote has been sent to Parliament's groups for those Members who wish to vote and cannot attend the sitting because of restrictive measures against the coronary. The first case, therefore, concerns Mr Dionisis Hatzidakis. It is a case where my colleague is accused of arbitrary building in a stream when he was a mayor. But it appears that there was a precedent for the building. We're not actually intruding. Correspondence's here. According to what the Conference of Presidents decided last time on the responsibility of the ministers, to filter assumptions from the prosecutor's office, our committee decided today in a special debate, as Mr Buga and Mr Janakopoulos raised the issue, to make a suggestion of such cases filtered before they come, but at the moment we cannot do anything else. This building was simply a precedent and in any case we will go according to our Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, to apply Article 83(1), which says that before the time the case-file is sent it must be checked by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Except you said you were building. There's no building, it's a basketball court. Ladies and gentlemen, following the floods in Mandra and which, as you recall, fell all the media to the mayor, the district mayor, etc., some mayors who had streams to send the town to check if there were illegal buildings in these streams. In the stream of Pikrodafni, which starts from Ilioupoli and erupts in Faliro, technical service teams went in 2018. In November 2017, the floods took place in Mandra. The mayor, after the city of Argyroupoli comes under control, says - and rightly so - "that they should not hang me in the handkerchiefs and have dead and say "the killer the mayor"," he ordered to go to record all the illegal buildings. In fact, about two hundred ten buildings were illegal when I was still in the municipality. They wrote it down and told the D.A. In the illegal buildings there was also a basketball court in Faliro, which you keep in mind was built in 1994. I was still a subcommittee in the Navy, but I am surprised that there will be a regular procedure in the House and for the next field that is below and for the next field that is beyond. So I ask the city: Why don't you write them? They said to me: 'Because that day the driver's shift was over and we couldn't write it down'. So, Mr President, you know that at some point I will ask for my immunity to be lifted for the rest of the two fields. When I heard the committee, I told them: take the photographs. And I asked them: When was this field here? They replied: "We understand it, but after the D.A. asked for your guilt and did pre-interrogation, we can't get over it." But no one invited me. I will submit the document, which I will submit to the Minutes of the House, to say to them: 'The three courtesys. One field has taken place between 1974 and 1979. The second field was built between 1978 and 1982. The third court between 1982 and 1988. In addition, the person who made the autopsy did not record a house, which took place in 1988.' As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the charge is completely lame. They were built at a time when I wasn't a mayor. I was the mayor in 2002. But I want my immunity to be lifted for one single reason not to prove my innocence, but to support the mayor of 1974, who was PASOK and the wider democratic forces, who did what? He made three pebbles in an adjacent space where he was going and used for car parking, the opposite to apartments. Well, this man, who's eighty-four years old now, I feel obliged to go to court and support him, because he didn't do any building or city building, a playground did three courtyards. That is what my conscience says, and I ask that my immunity be lifted, not for the innocence of my own, which is given, but for the support of this mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. It's like Mr. Hatzidakis said. After all, these are misdemeanors and have been banned for a long time. In any case, the limitation is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u38	What's gone down? They're asking for 25,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u39	The fine is another issue, but as a criminal offence it has been dropped, because the limitation is an objection to substantive law. Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor? Nobody. We are therefore moving on to Mr Mella's case. Mr.Mellas was Vice Mayor of Quality of Life of Piraeus and was inhabited because he did not shut down a shop in the courtyard of which, while it was a storage area, a room was formed and there was noise pollution. This is a breach of duty with 259. And Mr Melas said he wanted to waive his immunity. Mr. Mela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. It is a case in which I was chairman of the Committee of Quality of Life in the Municipality of Piraeus and Vice Mayor in the Municipality of Piraeus. It was a health store in which there was an autopsy exhibition by the Greek Police for some violations. He came to the Committee on Quality of Life. I am accused of being President of the Committee on Quality of Life because I have not retired from the shop's licence. It is not the chairman of a committee, either in the Committee on Quality of Life or in the Committee on the Economic Commission for the Municipalities. They shall act by a majority. There was a procedure in which the store was checked for some reasons and examined and no decision was finally taken to withdraw the licence. Today I am accused only myself and none of the members of this case. As you all know, I have been unable to decide for myself on this matter. So, in order to ensure that there is no shadow in this whole story, and as I have asked the committee to waive my immunity, I would ask that the plenary also proceed with the lifting of my immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u41	It's a flood. It's Monomele this. In any case, because he acquired the MEP's status in the meantime, the case-file should have been here. Is there a colleague who's asking for the floor? Nobody. We are now entering the vote. The vote includes the two cases of waiver of immunity, as I mentioned. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or earlier, press the arrow on the top right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. If you have any questions, you may address the Bureau and the relevant Members of the House who handle the system. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened, so that Members may vote on applications for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes by colleagues have been sent to the Bureau under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u43	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, before I announce the results of the electronic roll-call vote on Members' applications for immunity, I would like to make two announcements to this House: The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of Development and Investment: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Strengthening the Memorandum between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait in the field of Industrial Cooperation’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in Science, Technology and Innovation’. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis and Mr Ioannis Mela. A total of 279 Members voted on the first case by Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 275 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', 4 Members voted. No one voted 'PARA'. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 279 Members voted on the second case by Mr Ioannis Mela. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 276 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', three Members voted. No one voted 'PARA'. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority of the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-21-S1-commons.u46	With the consent of the House at 13:52 the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday 22 October 2020 at 10.00 on the subject of this House's legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Consolidation of debts and the provision of a second chance", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
