ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins, good morning to all of you. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 29-1-2020 authorisation, the minutes of the PHC's PRACLE sessions of Wednesday, 29 January 2020, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: 1. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the United Arab Emirates for Mutual Recognition and Exchange of Driving Licences’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House in writing that all planned topical questions will be discussed. It is nine, we are a little late, we will move quickly, but we will also be consistent in time, Mr Minister, so that we can complete it, because at 14.00 we have another job. We begin with the discussion of the fourth under No 426/27-1-2020 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastasis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Problems with the recognition of the service of military officials". You have two minutes at your disposal, Mr. Papastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have been in the process of submitting a timely question, assessing the problem of recognizing the service time of the Armed Forces officials as particularly important. This is a matter directly related to their insurance policy, which is of particular importance in the run-up to the insurance bill you put up for consultation by 7 February. The SYRIZA government, shortly before the end of its government term in April 2019, accepted a consistent request from the trade union movement of active soldiers. It has enabled active strains of the Armed Forces to count, increased to twice or three times and up to five years, and the time they have served in carrying out tasks of their specialty in units and services regardless of geographical identification. Electionally, the Prime Minister assured these officials that your government would correct any injustices the previous government did. Today, unfortunately, it is revealed that it does not only correct, but systematically eliminates the few positive ones. It has already been nine months since this legislature, and your government refuses to do so, to implement it. In this situation, the Ministry of National Defence blames the Ministry of Labour and Tubalin. Even recently, in your reply of 20 January 2020 to a question of SYRIZA Members, you say that the competent services of your Ministry are studying and working on the matter in mind, so that, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the ECA, the most suitable solution can be found. However, an EVA document that brought to light the publicity of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Military Unions (PLOs) disproves you, as in this document the EPC does not agree to apply the law because - listen to - this is not a special law. Finally, Minister, do you intend to apply the specific provision of the law that you voted in favour of, yes or no? And finally let us put an end to this unwitting mockery against the thousands of these people, especially in the days that we are living and with the conditions, working and personal, that we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. You will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, the Ministry of Labour has the task of ensuring the protection of workers' working and insurance rights. On this basis, in recent months, we have been working on fire - you have already mentioned it - by promoting a new insurance bill, an insurance bill, a major insurance reform, which will change the future of insurance as we know it to date, an insurance viable with returning features, ensuring confidence and making it attractive again to workers and insured persons. In any case, the question you raise and refers to the issue of the recognition of the service time of Armed Forces officials, namely the counting of service time, increased to twice or up to three years in units and services, regardless of geographical identification, in which military personnel have served in the performance of tasks of their specialty, in accordance with the provisions of Law 4609/2019, I have to tell you the following. In substance, the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 20 of L.3865/2010 provide that the members of the Armed Forces, the Security and Fire Corps, which are the basis of a retirement right from 1-1-2015 and thereafter shall be entitled to a pension in the 60th year of their age and shall be entitled to the completion of a 40-year pension service, including those expressly mentioned in the relevant time provision. Furthermore, those persons are automatically removed, except in cases of the imposition of a statutory penalty which entails loss of the pension entitlement, the pension shall be paid by supplementing the time corresponding to thirty-five years of actual service or by the completion of the 60th year of their age. Subsequently, under the provisions of Article 11 of Law 4609/2019, the present article, it is laid down that, for the purposes of applying paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 20 of Law 3865/2010, as well as paragraph 3 of Number 4 of Law 3883/2010, it is counted as an increase of twice or three to five years and the service time in units and services, irrespective of geographical identification, in which personnel of the Armed Forces have served in the performance of their duties. This time shall be calculated beyond the years referred to in paragraph 5 of number 40 of d.d.169/2007, as applicable. I'm stopping here and I'm going to go on with my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Papastasis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I heard you very carefully. You have referred to what applies up to now. There is one particular point, however, that there is no law that has been passed and even voted in favour of you. In general, this is not your position, because your government's policy - and this is not a negative privilege only of the Armed Forces area - is firmly committed to the implementation of purely anti-popular measures at the expense of the military and so that you are moving towards the constant deterioration of their insurance rights. You beat them up and demand that they participate in missions that no one has to do with defending our borders or our sovereign rights. On the other hand, the interests of other peoples are being addressed. You are sending them to missions, at the request of NATO and the European Union. You are about to send a Patriciot array to Saudi Arabia with dozens of Air Force officials, only on the basis of an intergovernmental agreement, without even the UN pit. But when the fund's time comes, you cynically say to them, "What can we do? We want to, but we can't. The fund shall be minus.’; The law of the previous SYRIZA government, which you also voted for, enables active soldiers to count as high as three or five years, as mentioned above. Today this law refuses to apply it. You're blamed on the agency of the FBI. The military are asking themselves - and they are absolutely right - why are the governments voting for the laws, because the next day they do not apply them? Today, the debate that we are having from Parliament's channel is being watched by a huge number of soldiers. All these people are anxious about what the government is preparing at their expense. They ask questions that you know them very well. They ask how old and disdained the government wants the Armed Forces? Why does it deny the ability of military officials and the advantage of recognizing an additional five years? Minister, you obviously know that for their night work you have not paid a minute, even though from 1-12017 the law provides for compensation. You also know that these people work beyond the 50th day, without any reward. You also know that they work overtime as well without pay. So why don't you apply the law of the previous government? If you accept what EVA claims, that Law 4609/2019 is not a special law, why do you not bring special legislation to correct the mistake of the previous government? We are aware of it and are fully responsible for these people. We tell them that we are not in government priorities, no measure that would really release the heavy working and living conditions of the armed forces' personnel. Do you know what executives are commenting on all camps, Minister? The Minister of Labour is not going to do anything for us. Isn't he the one who broke our pensions? Minister, once for these people, the solution to even the least of their problems went through the unworthyness of the forced passage from your political offices, your own political offices. Today, despite the enormous stumbling blocks you put them, consciously and with maturity, they are fighting collectively for their dignity, they are beginning to realize that the solution to their problems is in their hands and is common to the rest of the workers. The Communist Party of Greece, apart from any initiatives taken to resolve the issue under discussion, commits against them that it will take every possible initiative to support their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, because I was also personally provoked by the Communist Party as a government, I have to respond to a similar look. We're not going to let anything fall down, Mr. President. The concern of the Communist Party for the Armed Forces, which you have been conquering over the years in the country's political life. This fact called the New Democracy and the New Democracy Government over time has shown that the Armed Forces are in the political focus of their interest. He has proved it in practice not only now, but whenever he has in the past. You were always across the street. It's over. Secondly, with regard to your position and the way in which you are ‘ hug’ the specific procedure for which I will tell you, of course, from where you are - it is your right - that is our democracy - you may share and promise millions and billions. It doesn't cost you anything to promise everyone everything. There is a political leadership here, however, which is responsible for managing and safeguarding pensioners' money. That is why I am telling you that this insurance policy, the great reform that will come to Parliament, will be the first time in the history of the country that will be accompanied by a full proportionate study confirming that no pensioner is at risk in the future for his pensioner, that we will not return to the past of the cuts, difficult financial adjustments, and that today's workers and future workers can fully trust the public social security of our country, because we will now have a fully viable reward system, which will be confirmed by his first statement here in Parliament, together with the draft law of a large proportional study showing the prospect of insurance by 2070. The Ministry of Labour has already sent the document number 16031/20-9-2019 to the Ministry of National Defence requesting opinions on the application of the provisions of Article 11 of Law No.4609 11/2019 and in particular the procedure for the recognition of service time which is counted as twice or three times as long as five years, as well as the persons who may make such recognition. The services of the Ministry of Labour, following from the 20-11-2019 EPC document - Public Sector Pensions Department, which you invoke in your timely question, deal with this issue and in particular if a special provision is required for its resolution in accordance with Article 73(2) of the Constitution. In any case, it remains our main objective to regulate the demands of the executives fairly, exhausting all existing margins on the basis of the current budgetary reality and the possibility. In fact, we have close cooperation with the relevant department of the Ministry of National Defence. I close as follows: Mr Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this law and this article 11 which came to Parliament shortly before the national elections is the definition of poor legislation. Historical precedent I can't find. During the governance by SYRIZA we had many such phenomena. On the basis of the Constitution, which I mentioned, and I also invoked EVA, there can be no provision for insurance in the House without two conditions. First, an economic report from the Court of Auditors and second, a report from the Court of Auditors. Mr President, this provision has come here without the conditions imposed by the Constitution. It's practically inappropriate. SYRIZA brought her by election to manipulate, to send a message that he embraces the world without having the necessary studies provided for in the Constitution. This is the example of political fraud and deception, which is the example of poor legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. We continue with our first question with number 433/28-1-2020 on the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The immediate operation of the Recyclable Materials Selection Center in Heraklion". Mr. Synhronakis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, at times the same issue has been discussed in plenary, with the latest on 25 October 2019 to the Minister for the Environment. We warned that there is a risk that the Heraklion Recyclable Materials Selection Center will be closed and workers will lose their jobs. The answer then, as always, was 'we will do our best to deal with the problem'. Unfortunately, however, we have been confirmed. The factory has ceased its operation since November 2019. The contractor left the work and typically left earlier than the contract, which was on 31-12-2019. The redundant workers at the moment are in the air, have not been paid out in December under the brutal extortion of the labour force and face great financial problems for their daily survival, but also debts that they have in banks, in electricity, in the telephone, in various other obligations. Up to now they have no official information about who took over the project from the recent competition launched by the Greek Recycling Company in November, when they take over and what industrial relations they will return to their work. There is, of course, serious questions about the attitude of the Government and its supervisory mechanism, the EEAN, which is responsible for supervising the recycling company. Despite ongoing violations and the disregard of its contractual obligations, the ESA continues to maintain 35 workers hostage in both Prefectures of Crete, Heraklion and Lassithi. A characteristic example is the award contest for Heraklion's contractor, which was obliged to disclose the results of the tender on December 2, 2019 and to operate the factory from 1-1-2020, an obligation that not only complied with, but expressly refuses to respond to all stakeholders for the reason of its inertia. In addition to the government, which has the highest supervisory role, the ECHR, as well as the municipal authorities, particularly of Heraklion, who tolerate this situation, has as a direct consequence for recycling workers, but also for the public, double and three times the recycling fee and the fine for the municipalities of the two counties serving Heraklion, which throw the recyclable materials in the HYTA. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will you take to make substantial intervention from the Ministry of Labour, first of all to find out about the results of the competition - there is a veil of mystery - and to initiate the procedures to operate the plant immediately, to continue recycling in the two prefectures, to remain all workers in their positions with the same labour assets and to be relieved of the very serious problems of survival with 'fresh' of debts to the public authorities, to the banks, without incremental and interest and with their exemption from municipal charges. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthyriakis, because my answers are long-standing and are answers that have come to me from the Ministry of Labour and his services and are answering what you have raised, I will be allowed to reply to two parts, and I believe that, with the completion of my reply, I will have covered you completely with the questions you have raised. The Ministry of Labour is responsible for ensuring the protection of workers' working and insurance rights. That is his role, that is his duty. It contributes with its instruments and tools to ensuring and respecting legality in the labour market, because legality in the labour market is a top priority of the Ministry in any case. To the question you raised, I have to focus on two issues: First, what has happened with the payout of the employees of WAST SOLUTIONS S.A., who is active in the CEDEFOP Heraklion and what is the latest development in the awarding contest for the CEDEFOP of Heraklion Crete? In the second theme you blame the Government for a suspicious attitude, as well as that there are continuous violations of contractual obligations and that the Hellenic Recycling Customization Company holds workers hostage. This is unfounded, vulgar and irresponsible, as all legal procedures are followed. Mr President, I now come to the essence of the two issues which concern us. As far as the first is concerned, the company did owe the workers money. However, according to the relevant labour relations inspection department, Heraklion TEC, the issue is as follows: First of all, I would like to point out that WASTTE SOLUTIONS S.E., which operates at the Recyclable Materials Selection Centre - KIDS Heraklion, employed a total of forty-three employees, according to the annual staff table and not thirty-five, as you say. As far as its liabilities to employees are concerned, they were paid up until September 1991 and received the licence allowance for 2019. For the remuneration of October 2019, the Association of Private Employees in Heraklion made a complaint, as the employees were not paid - as you rightly say - by 10 November 2019. Subsequently, Heraklion's labour relations inspection department found the infringement and imposed a fine of EUR 4,000 on the company, while forwarding - as it should - a reference to Heraklion's first-time prosecutors. I stop here because of time, and I will continue to equilibrium the events afterwards, in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much for keeping time. We need it, because at 14.00 we also have legislative work. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you will know that the subject of the recycling plant is not a new one. Innumerable times this issue has been discussed in Parliament's plenary with timely questions, with simple questions, on SYRIZA, on your own governance. They've given a very tough, titanic struggle workers, with too many days of strike. The truth is, they've conquered a lot of things. It is not due to the Ministry of Labour, nor to the governments of the workers. One prisoner is that. The other is that workers are working under harsh, unfavourable, dangerous conditions, with too many accidents at work, without the factory's contraction company and without any intervention from the Ministry of Labour to deal with this criminal indifference of the employer. So what was conquered is because of the struggle of the workers. Therefore, you should be particularly vibrant about the role of the Ministry of Labour and about the role of the employer, for which the governments have often backed up, in response to most of the times: 'What to do, this is the labour market'. What labour market? It's literally a jungle. For over two months now, the factory's been closed, it's devalued. The recyclable material goes to the dump and the workers are out of work. That's what you're gonna have to answer. They're unemployed! What will the Ministry of Labour do about this thing? In all the interventions made by the workers through their club - private employees - highlighting the problem with the depreciation of recycling, but also the acute problems they face in meeting their needs, the answer was the same: 'We do not know when the plant will work'. I personally, as a member of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, attempted too many times to contact the recycling company, the ESA. No answer at all! I'm totally deceived. I left my phone, I recommended who I am, I begged to give me an answer in relation to the competition that has been conducted, what are the results. I didn't get any answers at all. And we ask you: do you not care that the workers are unemployed, that the necessary and the obligations are unbearable to them? Nor do you know that the people of Crete itself pay for recycling? Nor do you know that the public pays the cost of collecting, transporting and deposing CITES of recyclable material? Don't you know that no maintenance work has been done? Tell me, what's the intervention of the Ministry of Labour? No maintenance work has been done on equipment and on the whole on the plant, although the number of accidents at work has been doubled. Aren't you interested in the fact that they haven't been paid in December? And what was paid over the past few months, workers had to spit out blood, we had to bring this to the plenary and discuss it - that is to say, become a dash - in order to get people to pay their jobs. The Hellenic Recycling Agency, which is the competent body of the Ministry of the Environment with responsibility for monitoring the implementation of recycling, has not proceeded to any action in order to control the ESA for the fact that it has not been recycling throughout Eastern Crete for two months. The workers - I know - and through their union they will claim in every form of fighting their demands. Give us an answer when it will reopen - if it will reopen - the Heraklion CSCE, with all its employees and their rights. You say it's not thirty-five, but forty-five. Well, of course, it once was sixty and eighty. In these circumstances, therefore, some workers have decided to leave this job, others have become sick under the difficult working conditions and at the moment when we are talking there are thirty-five. I mean, you're kicking them out. In your policy, with the indifference of them you are persecuting. So when will the Heraklion CSCE be reopened with all the employees and their rights? Are these people going to work under permanent and stable working conditions? The issue of recycling is not generally relevant. They must be public enterprises and work with permanent and stable work. What are the main health and safety measures to be taken by the Ministry of Labour? Of course a collective agreement must be signed to safeguard their rights. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, I am one of those who has been here many times, as Minister of Labour, and I say that entrepreneurship is not entrenched. There are abusive behaviours over time. These abusive behaviours to workers, but also to the unfair competition they create with their abusive behaviour, undermining the national economy, productivity, the country's competitiveness, we as the Ministry of Labour - and doing so over time, not with me as Minister - are being called upon to deal with them. It cannot be enforced by the Minister for Labour Law. His intention is to show with political directions in the institutions that have over time the Ministry of Labour, which are its control mechanisms, such as the AIA and now the AAA. On the contrary, you have someone from this Step of Parliament, in 2012-2014, against the huge arbitrary behaviour and abuse of employers I had brought the fine of EUR 10,500 that had found across the whole political system of the country and even the KKE had not welcomed it, which was the biggest fine ever in the history of the Labour Law of our country and which helped to hit the root of undeclared work and of 42,5% that was in 2013 has fallen today into a one-digit number. There's a place for this fine. On the other hand, however, we do not agree with the ideological environment you say to me against the private initiative and the labour market linked to it. You mean that there is no private initiative in the country and that is all to be staggered. We have said that several times in discussions here in the House. I ask you to point out to me a country in the world where the economic model of yours exists. If the unborn ever happened what you're saying, we'd have poor workers, piles, and everybody would say we'd get back to that good situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u18	From morning to night, that's what you're telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Symphony, he didn't interrupt you. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u20	What today exists in Greece as an economic function of the labour market is what is happening in the rest of the world. And we are now trying to improve the quality of the labour market with specific policies, with specific decisions, attracting investments to open up the market, create jobs, increase wages, increase full employment. I'm going to the point. On November 16, 2019, ‘WASTE SOLUTIONS S.A.’ ceased to operate and workers no longer work there. However, for the payment of the accrued earnings of October 2019 and November 2019, as well as for the Christmas present 2019, a meeting took place on 11 December 2019 between representatives of the employees and representatives of the company. There were also the advisor of the Hellenic Recycling Certification Company (ESA). The two parties agreed together that: First the Christmas present 2019 will be paid to each employee by 21 December 2019. The gift was paid to the workers. Absolutely different from what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u21	January leaves, they haven't taken in December.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u22	The operation's stopped working. Second, the earned earnings of October 2019 and November 2019 will be paid to each employee by 24 December 2019. Indeed, wages were paid to workers. Since then, the relevant APRC service has been monitoring the operations of WAST SOLUTIONS S.A. and will, if necessary, carry out further legal actions. Therefore, my dear colleague, there is no question of the company's debt to workers, while the services and institutions of the Ministry ensure that the workers' interests are defended. I now come to the second point raised in connection with the award of the contract notice of Heraklion Crete and the serious complaints you make. I would remind you, therefore, that as far as I am concerned, as far as I am concerned, the Collective Alternative Management Systems had submitted to the EEAN the three-year cooperation agreement with the company "WAST SOLUTIONS S.A." on the full operation of Heraklion and the latter. A copy of the contract was even submitted by EEAN to the Parliamentary Control Department with its third relevant document in response to the application number 113/16-12-2015 in Parliament. In addition, I would remind you that the contract by the previous contractor "WASTE SOLUTIONS S.A." expired on 27-12-2019 and, as I mentioned earlier, the company has fully fulfilled all the legal obligations of paying the workers the dues and legal allowances already since 24-12-2019. Finally, the SAD entity has already proceeded to a notice for the award of the contract of the KIDY Heraklion Crete invitation to tender 18-11-2019 and since 1-1-2020 with a two-year duration for this procedure, and this procedure is now under way. Thank you very much. Mr President, this is not something that I know personally, as you can see, that is something that concerns your region. The answers I get and inform the House are through the Ministry of Labour services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u23	The factory will reopen, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u24	We're done, Mr. Covenant. That's the process. You can't answer that. We continue with the fifth under number 418/23-1-2020 in the first cycle of the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Ministerial decision on the operation of the Sunday specific shopping centers in Spata Attica". Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have tabled this timely question for your ministerial decision providing for the operation of shops on Sundays for the business park in Spata Attica. Minister, let us not hide behind our fingers, this is a ministerial decision that awkwardly seeks to establish an excuse for the operation of these stores on Sundays. And I say awkwardly, because it is trying on pretext to circumvent the relatively recent decision of the Council of State which banned the operation of the discount village on Sundays. The decision is 535/19 of the fourth section of the Council of State. And I wonder, do you not understand that it is a challenge for the average citizen to justify such a decision on the basis of which it belongs to the same municipality as the airport of Spatas and that it is adjacent to the Attiki Zoo Park, which is, as you say, a attraction for hundreds of thousands of visitors a year who want to know better about animals, which I assume are already thanking you for your interest? Why are you doing so to the executive? Legislative power to adopt such ministerial decisions has obviously not been given to benefit from it, is it not? You also know that the press, but also public opinion, speak of the minister's rush and of the photographic provision and their respective interests have a name: the McArthurGlen and Smart Park. You also know that this decision meets the universal reaction of the professional classes concerned, both traders and traders. Minister, the adoption of photographic provisions, and indeed with a view to serving individual private interests, degrades the functioning of the democratic society and affects its validity and credibility. That is why we invite you to rethink the matter and to withdraw your decision. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes at your disposal and you are very capable of telling everything in this space.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President, and the vote of confidence you give me. Dear Vice-President of Parliament and colleague, Mrs Sakorafa, first of all I would like to thank you for the question, especially because she has caused very great fuss and press releases and had to be put to Parliament to give answers. But when you mention judicial decisions, as the publications did, we should all mention them, not as they suit us. Isn't that right? Well, the decision you're referring to in the 100/2017 that annulled the Minister of Development and Competitiveness' decision of 7 July 2014 has a specific rationale. I read it to you: ‘In particular, as it concerns tourism, removal from the holiday rule on Sundays is subject to the condition that the exemption concerns clearly identified areas where economic life depends largely on the tourism sector, the exceptions are specified in precise time and possible over scattered days per year, etc.’. The reason why this decision is being annulled - beware - is not the substance, because I imagine the substance of this decision, I do not know if you have a great deal of agreement in Mera25, the reasoning as you know is the possibility of uninterrupted religious exercise of duties on Sundays. But I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u28	I didn't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u29	I say that the substance of the decision to which you referred lies in the uninterrupted right to exercise the citizens' religious duties. That's what you're defending. But let's go to the essence of the decision now. Listen to what he says: 'Because in this case, with the authorisation of Mr.4254/2014 and regardless of the reasons for the right of religious freedom for Christians, the people's religion, etc., because the reference to 'three general tourist areas' without specific and specific determination is vague, so the decision based on this authorisation is unjustified.' I'm making the decision on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The decision you referred to and which defends the endless right to the religious duties of the Sundays was rejected as vague. Why as vague? Because he was generally talking about three tourist areas. But after this ministerial decision of 2014, Madam Vice President, there has been a development. And here I blame you for a little poaching. And you're too decent and studying to do what the siege do. In 2017, the law changed. Mr Papadimitriou on SYRIZA added to this particular article, as you may know 42.1a, in which he gave the Minister for Development and Competitiveness the power to define in his ministerial decision what he considers to be tourist areas. Watch what we're talking about. A decision by the Council of State, which says 'necessarily', has been adopted, i.e. you have to go to define in particular, says the Council of State. What I did and you blamed me. The lawmaker of SYRIZA comes in and gives the Minister's legislative authority, 42.1a, to appoint by ministerial decision specific areas. This decision by Mr Papadimitriou was appealed to the S.H.E. They have also reacted to GFCM, GFCM and other traders' organisations. And I respect their reactions. I am also tabling what you did not say in the House, as well as the rationale and relevant publications. The decision of the Council of State 18/2019 was a constitutional decision of 758112-6-7-2017 signed by the then Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Papadimitriou. So the Council of State comes in and states that it is constitutional that the Minister for Development is able to define, by ministerial decision, specific tourist areas and heal the problem of vagueness of the past. I am presenting in the Minutes the reasoning of the decision and the minority. I'm closing, Mr. President. These had to be answered. And so, in this decision, what does the Council of State say? ‘This provision is not in breach of the constitutional principle of proportionality as the exemption from the operation of shops on Sundays was not introduced indiscriminately but only in the necessary and appropriate measure, i.e. in regions and areas where significant tourist traffic is found to exist’, etc. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So, by concentrating, you and those who made a fuss about press announcements and the headlines I went to a previous decision by the Council of State, referring to a previous law of the Greek state. Then came the Left government and changed the law. He gave a new authorization. All those who had appealed against it and against the previous one you mentioned. They lost in court. He was judged by a Constitutional Court. And I come in application of the law and the court, and I issue the contested ministerial decision that I will explain to you further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u30	It's good I didn't play it. Mrs Sakorafa, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u31	First of all, I would like to thank you because you always say that I am prepared and read. Thank you very much. I'd say it's a compliment for a congressman. I, Minister, have not referred to the decision you have made. I have referred to another decision by the Council of State and I will go further. What I mean to say is that on the basis of your own statements we know that you are personally in favour of the complete release of shops on Sundays. That's for granted. This is the direction of the New Democracy Party. We are not talking about this general issue, but we are not talking about it. We are talking here about a specific decision of yours, which gives this right to specific and so-called undertakings. It's a given, too. And I will not repeat that this is what you are attacking provocatively, I would also obviously say pre-regulatory excuses. What can we do now? I must point out that in order to proceed with this decision you have completely ignored and I would say you have despised all the social and professional classes that are opposed to this regulation because they are directly affected. You need to see this, Minister. What can we do? It is both the Chamber of Commerce and the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship that declare their opposition to the decision that they consider destructive. Of course it is obvious, Minister, that here they are formed with direct government intervention and responsibility, conditions not of free market but of unfair competition, while it is demonstrated in the most festive way that all the neo-democratic literature on the protection of the famous middle class was only a cheap pre-election slogan. The Federation of Private Employees of Greece was also negatively placed on this issue. You know that very well. According to well-founded arguments they say that "the government, by fulfilling the will of the large stores of foreign chains in commerce, of malls", you know my story with malls, "of the discounted villages that want to lead to the closure of small businesses in commerce, comes and forms conditions for the liberalisation of the operation of shops on Sundays with photographic provisions". Despite the opposite decision of the S.H.E. I mentioned, he had another number. I mentioned Decision 535/2019 of the fourth section to which these two companies had appealed. You know that, Minister. And the "McArthur" and another downgrading village of the municipality of Spata Artemidos in place of Gialos. The fourth section of Decision 535/2019 rejected it on specific grounds by putting the local closest to the entrance gate of the country, the tourist interest in the region, the existence of tourist markets with increased port business. I'm briefing you on why I don't have time. Therefore, it rejected these three characteristics as unfounded all the claims made by these two companies. So I ask. Are these institutions, I would say, applied or not? I'm hanging up. It seems that, Minister for Development and Investment, your government policy and development plan are exhausted in continuing to introduce such individual photographic arrangements. Some are of particular interest and are subjected to the democratic principle of party discipline, I would venture to say, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, first of all we will not resolve our ideological question of the operation of shops on Sundays. Obviously, we disagree. Because you mentioned my personal views, which I have never hidden, I have to tell you that when a minister becomes a minister, he does not legislate on the basis of personal views but implements a government policy. I want it to be made clear. We have no mood for the Ministry of Development to open a Sunday issue. I have said at the first moment that the law, which has already been passed initially by the Samara government and then by the Tsipras government, adequately regulates the issue and gives the tools to the Minister for Development to adequately regulate the market in this respect. Not only to the Minister of Development, but also to the Vice-Presidents concerned, to be fair. We are not talking here about opening up all Sundays of time. We are only talking about opening up during the tourist season. That is, from March to October. That's why we're talking here. We are going, in fact, to the general unfair competition you mentioned and you are constantly saying that. Unfair competition is from the back. Because you will know that, as the market works today, large discount centres, which are just across from the airport - I do not mention them because I do not want - operate in the period from March - October. So when someone fights and says "the two that are against operating, the other one that is across a kilometre don't work" you can see it backwards. That you serve the interests of the two. Again big companies are also these two, again multinational are the two, and both of them have great interests. They have the right, they are not to blame because this is how it was regulated, to unfairly compete with the other side. Why, Mrs Sakorafa, I am in favour of unfair competition that they want to have the same way of competition on both sides of the road and you are not in favour of the first and the second? I didn't understand that. So let us leave these intents. We have an ideological difference. We believe that during the tourist season where a lot of people gather, shops should be open on Sundays. The authorizing provision adopted gives the Minister for Development the right to reply. The decision you refer to again as referring to a previous decision with a previous law. Things have changed. A new S.T.E.'s decision is made. It's 2019, but it offends a precedent. In between, the law has changed. A new authorizing provision, which has been considered as a constitutional provision, has emerged. We have therefore used the new authoritative provision that has been decided by the Council of State. And you report back to me the previous one. So I come and tell you what we did is right. Anyone who listens to us does not know that, in the region of Spatas, we report that they are not in the urban fabric to hit small and medium-sized shops, as you mentioned, do indeed, because of the Attica Park and the airport, a lot of people are picking up every weekend? From me, you hear that if you take your car this weekend, you can't get close, you can't park from tourists from all over Greece, from inland tourism and from abroad approaching there? Well, it's not a tourist area, is it? Obviously, it's a tourist area. And obviously, if we did not make this decision, we would allow unfair competition from backwards and we do not want to serve interests. We all want to have the same working conditions and the same competition treaty. That's the difference. I am referring with respect to the associations of traders and to the ETUC and Mr Karanika, with whom we have an amazing cooperation and are now discussing the big issues of discounts and all the rest, and to GFCM and all the other sectors that at times have been complaining - some have already announced that they will have every right to appeal against it, and that they are a constitutional right, and I state firstly that the Government is not intended to open up a question on Sundays, but we must all know that we cannot fight backs all the time in this country. Those who travel abroad well now know that in most countries these issues have been resolved. So let's not fight in self-evidently. We are a tourist country, we want to increase our Gross National Product, we want to show foreign investors - in this case we have foreign investors in the particular discount village - that Greece is a business friendly country, we go out and we constantly advertise how much we want foreign investments and how much we need them to go ahead of our country. Well, don't fight and beat the ones who came. Because if anyone comes to Greece and cannot function as their competitors work better, Greece is discredited abroad and it is difficult to attract foreign direct investment. But when everyone sees that we have a rule of law here and the same applies to everyone, much easier to convince them to come. So, then, this ministerial decision does not generally open up a matter on Sundays, I do not generally raise a matter on Sundays, I have no intention of doing so, but in this case we considered that it was fair for this area to join the tourist area as well, because it was also an injustice, as well as a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Mrs Catherine Notopoulou is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 31 January 2020 to 1 February 2020, due to her participation in the meeting of new Greeks in Northern Macedonia. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u35	The House therefore approved the requested permission. As Macedonian I would like to know who these young Greeces are meeting with the young people of Northern Macedonia, at the invitation of the UNESCO Youth Group. And of course Mrs. Notopoulou will go. In addition, MP Maria - Alexandra Kefala requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 2 February 2020 to 4 February 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u36	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Go and have a good time! Finally, MP Mrs Irene - Helen Agathopoulos requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 30 January 2020 to 1 February 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Go and have a good time. It will now be discussed the first under number 427/27-1-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Messinia Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Lambropoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'The price of olive oil and the problems of olive producers'. Mr. Lambropoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, prices for olive oil this year have fallen to historically low levels. This has also happened during the previous olive-growing season 2018-2019 but then due to quality. This year in terms of quality is excellent. But your prices again say that they are tragic. The producer, the farmer can no longer respond. These prices do not cover either the costs or the costs of production. The farmer can't survive. He can't live, he can't meet his obligations, pay bills, pay insurance contributions, live his children and his family. I repeat, the situation is tragic despite the fact that we have the best olive oil. He has the reputation, he has the recognition, but whatever exports are made, they are made in bulk, they are not standardised. The olive-growing sector is unorganized. The United States Government's decision, following interventions by our government, was very positive. He excluded us from the embargo. But something has to be done. We need to change something. We need to implement new policies. We need to plan things in the short and long term, to see what is going to happen with our national product that is olive oil, to see what we are going to do with our farmers, because olive is cultivated throughout Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Konstantinos Skrekas has the floor for three minutes. Mr. Screka, a strange one whenever I'm up here and you're there, we're talking about oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr Papoutsis, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the very important question you have tabled, which gives the Greek Parliament the opportunity to discuss this important issue, which concerns our national product, such as the production of olive oil, olive oil. Let us say that, as you quite rightly said, the reality this year is too hard for Greek producers of olive oil, as it is true, prices of olive oil have collapsed. But not only in Greece. Globally olive oil prices have been at the lowest levels in recent years and are today negotiating - extremely virgin, good quality olive oil - around EUR 2 per litre. What is the reason for this and what can the Greek state do? What is due, I think, is almost self-evident. We are talking about a product which is freely circulating in the countries of the European Union and not just. Prices are shaped in the process of supply and demand, and unfortunately this year we have the unfortunate one - to say this - we have very large productions from large producers in the sector, from other countries such as Italy, such as Tunisia, such as Morocco, such as Turkey. Spain does not have such a great increase in production, but on the other hand, it had storeed almost 30% of its production in the previous period, so that it would come and add it to all that I have said and try to put it on the European market in particular. And why am I saying, above all, on the European market? Because after the intention at the moment of the United States of America to impose import duties on olive oil and olives, necessarily, all production of Spain at the moment should also be made available within the small market, particularly the European Union, which leads to the collapse of prices. On the other hand, Greece and the Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has achieved a very important success, as he has achieved through negotiations and following specific requests, to exclude Greece from the customs duties that the United States is currently planning to impose on oil and edible olive. As far as we are concerned, however, the edible olive is to say that Greece is the only country to be excluded from these duties. This, of course, was not enough to stabilise the prices of olive oil in our country, at a level that would give a decent income to the Greek farmer to live in his family, to continue to invest in his work and to see the future with optimism. For what? Because, as you quite rightly said, there are decades of pathogens that have not left this important national product, the excellent quality Greek olive oil, to be able to have the market share that it could have in the countries outside Greece, in the markets of foreign countries and in the USA. So in the USA today we are exporting Greek oil, after Mr Mitsotakis' success, without imposing duties, but unfortunately the quantities exported are few, because the cooperatives, private companies, those who have the critical mass - to say so - have a satisfactory market share towards the other competing oils from other countries from Italy and from other countries, in America, so that this success of the Greek Government will bring about an increase in sales, and so to say - the reduction, most likely, of the demand for oil as a whole in Europe. From there on, of course, the current leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development intends to examine all the available tools at its disposal to see what it can do so that it can contribute, from our side and on the part of the Ministry, to alleviate, if we can or maintain the prices of olive oil at a level. I'll tell my denture what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Lambropoulos, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. My dear Minister, the olive oil issue is now very big, the problem is now very big. I would suggest that it should be put to the European Commission and that there should be a great debate. There are many countries of the European Union that are interested in this problem, but to put it and consider it. We know - and a lot has been written - that the marketing of olive oil has gone through a few, in some hands, which we do not know what is behind it. So have they agreed with each other, five to ten large people, to buy oil at very low prices from the producer and sell uncontrolledly in large stores, in all states, in all supermarkets? And that's what's happening. Because in many states prices are a pharmacy, they are pharmacy prices. They can't take the oil at this price now, the kammaean, and sell it at outrageous prices. It should also be considered from the side of the European Union. Secondly, very importantly, to see what other measures we will take to support agricultural income, because I repeat that they are two years on a continuous basis that our farmers have not collected. Let us see this, see what happens with production costs, see what happens with reducing oil for our farmers. These are things that will alleviate, slightly relieve the situation and give a perspective. In many olive groves this year in Messinia, their owners did not go to harvest, because it did not contribute. When they paid 40 and 50 euros, they had absolutely nothing left. They picked up what they wanted to eat and the other one quit. How will young people live? How will they create? It's a big problem. We should consider new policies around olive oil and of course also from the olive tree, which the ministerial decision signed by the former Minister of Apostolos in 2018 has destroyed the olive and has given the rights to Turkey. He's got the rights, they've taken our mole and presented and flooded the markets at cheap prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Mr. Screka, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u44	I think you have put very important points on agricultural income and, in general, on the sustainability of Greek farmers and the country's primary sector. I must tell you, Mr President, that at the Ministry of Rural Development we are planning and implementing a national strategic plan precisely to support agricultural income, attracting young farmers to crops and to protect the environment. And it is an opportunity, at this point in time, for the country and the primary sector to change the way it works, because at the moment in Europe's living room we are discussing and negotiating the new common agricultural policy of 2021-2027. So, through this process and through this opportunity we have right now, we can change things and situations, we will really be able to put the primary sector of the country, Greece, on a path of hope, on a road of sustainability and on a road where it will continue to play this important role for the national economy, for the social cohesion of our country and for the food security of our country. From now on, you have referred to possible unfair practices, which may dominate the olive oil sector, saying that some big, few, may have done 'oligosponium', oligopoly in a few words, and thus keep the prices of the olive oil low. I will tell you that, first of all, it is the National Competition Commission, the Independent Authority. We are in cooperation, we are with you too, and with anyone else who has some complaints he can make and is haunted to appeal to the committee and thus to consider whether such practices really exist. But I will tell you very briefly that we are seeing the phenomenon whenever the price of olive oil falls on the producer, the large markets, the organized chains of supermarkets, and these are asking for lower prices after the packers and intermediates, so to speak, merchants, which ultimately means that no one gets off. In other words, we do not know whether the final store, which is the final retail shop for the final consumer, is being destroyed because of competition and that is where the prices are falling. So the point is how we maintain high prices for Greece for Greek olive oil. Here you are absolutely right in what you said, we must make a serious job, we must make the characteristics of the product, the Greek olive oil and yours, which come specifically from Messinia - the internationally known, but not as much as it is finally necessary - to make these characteristics known, the claims about the product, the 'claims' we say, to become known to consumers and to be identified in the product, so that we can now sell a product with identity, a brand, in surplus of what is called 'adjusted value', so that the consumer can give more money, in good faith, because he knows that he can buy a much better product than any other product on our own. This is not something that can be done overnight, this thing needs a lot of work - you are right - it needs a national plan. We must not deny what has happened over the past decades, because something has been done to get Greek olive oil on the external markets. This does not mean, however, that we need to calm down this year's price collapse provides an opportunity for reflection and consider what we need to do, together with the people of the market, together with all those involved in this product and in this sector, in order to develop a national strategy that will work. On the other hand, I have to tell you that, in general, it concerns all farmers and other products, a little better, a little worse, some others, and these are having the same problems. In other words, we must finally understand that we are selling goods of value and with characteristics that do not exist similar to those in Europe and the world. That is where we will support the new national strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. We go to the next question, which is very good and is right, Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou, for the people there, the Beekeeping, the Court, the Eleftherai, I know what they're pulling. The second question will be discussed under number 431/27-1-2020 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sultanas Eleftheriadou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Reimbursements of the wine producers of the Municipality of Pangaios.’ Mrs. Eleftheriadou, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u46	Undersecretary, the question is very specific and I expect a clear answer from you because our fellow citizens expect to know when they will be compensated. The intense rainfall of September throughout the Municipality of Pangaios destroyed most of the variety of sultanina grapes, while the hails of summer brought total damage to the production in the villages of the municipal units Orphanou, Pierres and Eleftheres. Despite the direct record of the losses by the ELGA and the assurances, producers have not been compensated to date. The results of the findings have not yet been announced so that the objections and, of course, the repayments can also be started. Farmers themselves even say in their communication that, in corresponding damage to plant and animal capital in the past, the procedures have moved much faster. Since the financial situation of producers is difficult and more than they are unable to meet their obligations towards third parties, because they are in the air now other branches working with the producers, because the government MPs in Kavala have promised that repayments would be made by the end of January, you ask yourself what the schedule for payment of compensation is and I would ask you to give a clear answer because farmers are in a very difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Screkas for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, thank you very much for your question. You are actually finding an issue that is slowly beginning to employ more and more farmers. What's the matter? It is the consequences and consequences of climate change in the primary sector. Unfortunately, we see that the effects of climate change are already ringing the door of our country and our farmers. We see that we have much more intense weather phenomena that cause very great catastrophes that we had not seen in the past. This is, of course, an attempt for farmers who see their productions lost, for their incomes to disappear and for the difficulty of increasing them to be able to stay in the fields to cultivate them, but also to live their families. On the other hand, all this is testing the country's own insurance system, ELGA, which is called upon by a plan for previous decades to respond and adequately compensate those who suffer damage, our farmers, in conditions that have changed, are much more intense and are very different from when this system has been designed, so I must tell you that we are looking at and planning how we can ultimately create a risk insurance framework so that farmers can feel safer if unexpected and unforeseeable happens to them. In particular, for the timely question you asked me, I will say that in the area of the Municipality of Pagaio there were damages to vineyard crops covered in insurance by ELGA. Three hundred and twenty-six injury statements were submitted from the hails during the summer of 2019-June-July-July - and five hundred and twenty-three injury statements from the rainfall occurred in September 2019. I would remind you that the Ministry of Rural Development immediately mobilised the mechanism. The assessors of the ELGA immediately visited the affected areas, unprinted the damage and carried out a damage assessment, with the result that, according to the Agency’s estimates, the findings have been communicated to the parties concerned at the beginning of February for the damage caused to the summer and the mid-February for the rainfall damage. So in February, the findings will be communicated - very quickly and I will explain why - both the damage that occurred in the summer and the damages that were done in September. From that point on, the objections procedure is followed and we believe that, from the end of February, the payment of the beneficiaries will begin to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u50	I won't need three minutes, Mr. President. Minister, you are very specific. So, at the end of February, paybacks will begin. That's why the Ministry is committed. I will simply say to you that this timely question was made after several letters of protest from the farmers of the Municipality of Pangaios, who warn and with mobilisations if the repayment procedure is not immediately completed. I also stress that people have no income since the end of 2018 and therefore they are unable to pay suppliers, workers, EKKA, ELGA, tax advisor, PPC, as well as their loans to banks. Nor can they buy the elementary raw materials for the new growing season. I live in what you said about the end of February. I'm going to pass it on, and I hope the ministry will keep up with what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u51	People hope so too, because they do need it. Thank you. Mr. Screka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u52	First of all, with regard to compensation and the time in which these are being promoted to the beneficiary producers who have suffered damages, say that we have tried to speed up this whole process and the time when the producer will suffer the damage, he will make the announcement - because there he has fifteen or twenty days to make the announcement to the ELGA - to come the valuer, to assess the damage, to return to his office and to record the damage from there and beyond to promote this request for compensation. This time is long. That is something that we have ‘inherited’ and that will have to change. That is why I told you that in total the Minister of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides, has already set up a committee of distinguished and approved people, who come from the insurance sector, teachers and marketmen, to study the current situation, to investigate the needs of a modern and efficient insurance system and to proceed with proposals which will then become the law of the State and will be implemented. This is quite right for you and we have pointed this out from the very beginning when we took over from the Ministry and took over the governance of this country by Mr Mitsotakis, and that is why we are moving immediately to see what needs to be done to establish, establish an insurance system that is fair to farmers. From that point on, that's not all. We have the issue of climate change, which we need to consider. We need to see what we have to do as a country to prepare farmers for what is coming. Societies that will advance and those sectors that are sustainable and will meet the new conditions will be those that will be prepared for the impact of climate change. We'll have fewer rainfall, longer periods of drought, so we'll have to see what we're going to do about water. On the other hand, we will have much more severe weather effects. There are other ways of dealing with them, such as in the case of quarantine. We need to find investment, anti-grass protection and, of course, we also need to develop a product strategy in the various areas, so that we can see which conditions favour which products and thus draw up our national strategy. From there, I must tell you that we have "inherited" damages, which have been done in 2017 and 2018, when we found that they had not yet been repaid, damages that may not necessarily be covered by ELGA, but by PESA, but that the necessary job has not been done and people have been paid for two years now and of course no one knows how these people survive. That is why we have put all of this on a road and are striving to satisfy these needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. The first question with number 1828/11-11-2019 will be discussed with the question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Evaluation of the building of the Corfu Veterinary Laboratory". Mr. Biagi, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your presence here. You responded to my question. It is a specific question that I raised with a question to your Ministry and which concerns the Veterinary Laboratory of Corfu, which was founded in 1992 and operated in Corfu until 2014-2015. By decision of the then government, all the equipment that was in existence was transferred to Athens and Thessaloniki. The veterinary laboratory, Mr. Undersecretary, operated in a private building within a vast forty acre plot, which is adjacent to three different schools in the area. I am talking about schools because it is a huge problem in Corfu with regard to school accommodation. According to Law No 1205/55674/19-05-2015 of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the building after the removal of the machinery would be delivered to the Municipality of Corfu. However, no progress has been made so far. In view of the needs of the Municipality of Corfu for the use of this building and the building, the Minister asks why the building of Corfu's premises has not been granted until now, according to the document I mentioned earlier, and whether you will proceed with the implementation of the decision to grant the building to the Municipality of Corfu, in order to make use of this building and the plot for the benefit of the students and school buildings of Corfu. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr. Screka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u56	I shall start with one comment. Mr. Colleague, it is our duty to be here today. You see the other State Secretary for the Ministry of Rural Development, Mrs Arabatzi. It is our duty to be here, as many other Ministers and State Secretarys of Government are here to answer your questions, because you too must be informed and informed of the problems that concern you. Allow me to set a series of what concerns this property. The property you're asking about is an area of fifty-nine acres belonging to the public. Since 1991, the use of ten acres from the fifty - nine acres from this property to the former Ministry of Agriculture has been granted for the sole purpose of building a building for the housing of the Corfu Veterinary Laboratory. The Veterinary Laboratory has ceased its operation - since its abolition - since 1 January 2015 and has therefore been informed by the Ministry of Agriculture, in order to withdraw the decision on the use of an indefinite concession, i.e. to withdraw the concession to the Ministry of Agriculture of this property. What does that mean? This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It was notified to the Ministry of Rural Development on 29 August with a deadline of one month for the delivery of the building. The Ministry of Rural Development had to deliver the building within one month of notification, that is on 29 September the building should be delivered. However, because of the existence of equipment - as it was a former vet - and of permanent material we have asked for a six-month period for the delivery of the building, which was given by the document No 9/2-1-2020 of the Public Property Company, to which the real estate of the State has been transferred. It appears from what I have said to you, Mr Papoutsis, that this property does not fall under the management of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and therefore does not have the power of the Ministry of Rural Development to grant it to the Municipality of Kirkras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Undersecretary, thank you very much for the answer. It is obvious that you are giving new evidence to the issue and the question that I raised, if we consider that the decision I mentioned to you in my prototype, 2015, speaks of the concession to the Municipality of Corfu to be used for school buildings. So, in fact, you come to tell me today that by mistake or - if you would like - by mistake, this document and the 2015 decision that said that once the building was released, it would be delivered to the Municipality of Central Corfu, it cannot be done, because the Ministry of Agriculture had it in its use and that it would be returned to the public. What I would like to stress is that we are entering a process now which is a labyrinth and which will have no effect on local society. In view of the existence of the 2015 document, the local society and the Municipality of Central Corfu believed that, with a concession that you would make with the building, it could use it and make use of it for the reasons I told you earlier, for school buildings, due to the fact that the school buildings in Corfu are too old, because one of Corfu's largest technical high school - which counts over five hundred students - has been on abandonment for about a month on stagnation, heating, etc. It's too old for the building. So they thought you would give a way out in this direction. Today, and given your reply, I would just like to point out that we are guided by the logic that this is now an asset belonging to the EBRD or the WID or - if you like - the big fund, where with the agreement that has been made in memorandum, there will be no possibility of using this land. I therefore believe that, in the context of the sensitivity that should be enjoyed by you, you should see the logic with which the Ministry, in this decision of 2015, provided - and if there is such a possibility - for the concession to be made to the Municipality of Central Corfu for school units. I think that in the answer you give us is some of the elements that we do not have in mind - I want to be clear to you - but you understand that the solution to the problem that the local society of Corfu is looking for in relation to the school buildings, given the issue of the land in Corfu for school buildings is very difficult, it becomes even more difficult with the solution and the turn that takes this issue. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. Mr. Screka, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u60	First of all, Mr President, we are open to consider whether there is any other property that could be used for the use that you say, which is very important. We will consider, if this is not really used, whether it could play a role and satisfy some of the needs. Unfortunately, as I told you about the property for which you have asked our Ministry a question, the former Ministry of Agriculture had granted in use - not by ownership - part of the property, so since it stopped using it it it is back to its master who is in the Treasury. So you may be addressing your question there. We, in any case, are open to see whether there is any other property that is managed - and is a gentleman - by the Ministry of Rural Development and to see if it could satisfy the needs you are referring to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. You were the best twin ever. Fifty-nine seconds, that's never happened before, I haven't written anything like that. We continue with the second with number 2809/20-12-2019 question of the circle of petitions by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Agricultural farming conditions and effects on health and the environment". Mr Arseni, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is a question which was unanswered, Madam Secretary, so we had to present it in time, because you did not answer it to us in the short term. We wonder why this question has not been answered, because it is a matter which is of great concern to society and to the public. It is about the issue of fish farming. You know about complaints made about the use of formol - they came to the press in 2017 - of a banned toxic substance. It's a huge issue, because it's about public health, about fish we eat for our plate. In addition to the complaint about formol, there is an international record of imminent additives, which are either antibiotics, antifungals or antiparasitics. The reason is that in these fish turbines a large amount of fish is accumulated, more than it is normal to exist, so there is a lack of mobility, lack of oxygenation, greater dissemination of patients and epidemics, and that is why pharmaceuticals are given to fish which are dangerous to humans and the natural environment. We are told by the European Commission's report on sustainable aquaculture in May 2015. This report places particular emphasis on the obligation on aquaculture not to pollute so that the relevant environmental legislation is not violated. It should be noted that in Greece, farms are located within the limits of protected areas such as the Ambracian, Delta Kalama, Achelou delta, and it is stated that the risks to the environment arising from the use of antibiotics insulating colours and other substances are not known and calls on the Member States to act. As there are - in relation to other areas of animal production - very few controls, we want you to tell us what measures are to be taken to strengthen the framework for the operation and farming of fish in order to protect the quality of food, water and living conditions of fish stocks. What are you going to do to activate the control mechanisms of each ministry and the conditions in which the fish are reared, the quality of food and water respectively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Fontaine Arabaji. Mrs. Arabaji, you have three minutes available.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I cannot imagine that our livelihood here and the dialogue that enables us to discuss the timely question to be the most enlightening thing about the questions you ask. The truth is that I am surprised, because you are actually coming and in some ways being at risk for one of the most powerful sectors, not only of our rural economy but also of our national economy in general and I will argue with numbers in this regard. Greece - you know - Mr Colleagues is a second in the European Union in terms of the volume and value of fish farming production. 80% of Greek production is exported and I am referring to popular products, such as cigarettes and sea bass, for which we must all be ambassadors of their reputation and their quality outwards. The value of Greek aquaculture exports in 2018 reached 450m euros and sales value of 550m. Fishery products reached the point in 2017 to question even the traditional sovereignty of olive oil, the flagship of our agricultural product in terms of exports. Aquaculture is active, Mr Colleague, many small and medium-sized enterprises, for which I am sure you are of particular interest. Even more interesting is the fact that aquaculture creates jobs and contributes to maintaining social cohesion, because, as you will know, aquaculture is developing in ten of the thirteen regions of our country between which many coastal and island regions give ten thousand direct and indirect jobs in areas where there are not many alternative activities. As far as the impact of aquaculture on the environment is concerned, we are very concerned about this issue, but what is worth mentioning in the opinion delivered by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries is of great importance. So what's he saying there? It says that aquaculture not only plays a significant social role by providing rural jobs in the poorest regions, but also an environmental role, Mr Colleague, contributing to the conservation of valuable wetlands and providing a wide range of ecosystem services that go far beyond its economic value. It should be noted that during the last decade a number of national and European research programmes have been developed for interactions between Mediterranean fisheries and the environment and despite the fact that all activities developed in the coastal area have an impact on the marine environment, there has never been scientific evidence of significant and permanent negative environmental impacts from aquaculture. In fact, since the 2026 research programme was drawn up by the Department of Biology of the University of Crete, which was ordered by the Ministry of Culture, "Affecting fish farming in the marine environment" it emerged, among other things, that "The presence of fish farming in a region increases the abundance and biomass of fish by two times." As you will also be aware, Mr Colleagues, the aquaculture activity is neither carried out uncontrollably nor, of course, without rules, but is governed by a specific strict and correct Community and national institutional framework. I shall therefore refer to the environmental dimension. First, the spatial planning, their vital area, which I am passing away, had to come the Government of New Democracy in 2019 to evaluate the marine spatial planning that had to be assessed since 2016 and provides for a strategic environmental impact study. For individual PDOs, i.e. organised aquaculture farming areas, their authorisation is subject to the approval of such studies. That is why, Mr President, since the first days we came to the government, we have introduced in cooperation with the expedited Ministry, the Ministry of the Environment, the committee for optimising and speeding up the licensing procedures for so-called PDOs, in order to allow of the twenty-five requests that were in existence - and, incidentally, only one of them was approved in the SYRIZA government, the other were fluffing - to permit those that meet the necessary conditions. After all, I must remind you - and I close with this - that we feel like a government not only political but also moral obligation, that we implement policies that are marine-friendly and consumer-friendly, which is why, moreover, with our wider political family, the European People's Party has created and supported the so-called 'Green Agreement', the 'Green Deal', an integral part of which is sustainable fisheries. As far as the individual checks carried out by our services are concerned, I will be allowed to refer to my denology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Undersecretary, Mrs. Arabatzi. As you know, I have been a member of the Committee on Fisheries for five years in the European Parliament, so these issues I have put them quite well with great action in legislation. You say, however, that you did not answer the written question of the text in order to reply to the House. That's not the process. The written texts are those which are in writing within a deadline, and that is what I imagine, and the mandate given to you by the Prime Minister and the oral ones, which we are making timely, is why there is a need for this dialogue. You did not answer a substantial part of my question. Do you actually give formol to fish? I really want you to give a clear answer, because the question is public at the moment. Citizens ask: is there a matter with the formol? If you want your position, you have to give an official answer. At the moment, the feeling is that something is wrong with food safety in terms of aquaculture. Please give a clear answer to the matter of the formol.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Arabatzis, you have the time for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u68	First of all, Mr President, I imagine that you understand that here and in public speaking we do not speak with sense, we speak with documentation and evidence. So I come to the complaints you invoke and answer. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food requested the competent regional veterinary service to carry out an on-the-spot check to investigate any illegal use of formol as antiparasitic treatment in fish preparations without the approval of the EOF. From the above check, Mr Colleague, there were no non-conformities found. In any case, it is worth noting that under the relevant Regulation 37/2010, which I am sure because of your inflammation in fisheries matters, you will know, the use of formaldehyde, formaldehyde, is safe, is permitted in all types of food production and leaves no residues in tissues, because it is a highly volatile substance, so there is no risk to public health. In fact, the use of formol as a veterinary medicinal product is indicated in fish for antiparasitic therapy and in 2015 the circulation of the relevant veterinary medicinal product was authorised in our country. In addition, the national residue control programme, so-called EPPOs, veterinary medicinal products and other substances in live animals and their products shall be applied annually in accordance with Union and national legislation on the basis of a risk analysis. All aquaculture establishments are controlled by the competent authorities almost every year in the context of the implementation of this ENPEC, and around five thousand samples of animal tissue are checked annually. In particular, from the current results of controls, minimum cases of non-compliance have been established. For example, six hundred and seventy-eight samples from aquaculture units were checked in the 2017 EPO. Each sample corresponds to more than one fish and only one case of non-compliance with a maximum residue level was found and six hundred and thirty-three samples were tested in the EPOE of 2018 and no non-compliance was found. With regard to the Commission's 2015 report, as you will have seen in the relevant article, no environmental risk is presumed, but due to our great environmental concern we support the European Commission's action plan to partially restore vaccine antibiotics to the level of prevention. As far as animal feed is concerned, it is noted that our Ministry is implementing an annual national control programme for safety and hygiene at all points of production, movement, marketing and their introduction. The national control programme for 2019, which is adjacent to the Ministry's website, includes, inter alia, sampling in farms, as well as in the components of farms, fishmeal, fish oil, in order to check for the presence of dioxins, antibiotics, heavy metals. According to the results, no non-compliances in the livestock sector have been detected that raise concerns regarding their safety. In addition to audits carried out in the context of inspections by the European Commission in 2015, it has been established that feed manufacturing companies are one of the most organised in the feed sector in respect of compliance with the hygiene rules and the HACCP principles as provided for in Regulation 183/2005. In any case, Mr President, the growth impetus of water farms, which we regard as repeating - and we will be helping by every means - our national wealth must be based on a quadruple. Environmental commitments which we fully respect, rational use of the vital area of aquaculture, consumer protection, animal welfare.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 31 January 2020. A. FURTHER QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). Under No 428/27-1-2020, Mr Christos Boukokouros, Member of the European Parliament, asked the Minister for the Environment and Energy a question on 'Home dozens of landowners'. The question by number 423/27-1-2020 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Design and develop the infrastructure of the airport "N. Kazantzakis’.’ The question by number 434/28-1-2020 is a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis to the Minister of Health, on "For the problems and shortcomings of the General Hospital of Chania". The Question No 413/22-1-2020 by MP B2' Western Greece Greek Solution Mr Maria Athanasios to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "WHO: Extensive convening of the World Health Organization for the new Coronovirus". The Question No 417/23-1-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Reports of anti-neoplastic drugs - delays and cancellations of treatments'. B. PERIODICALS second-round Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) The question by No 440/28-1-2020 was raised by Mr. Athens, Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulos, to the Minister for Health, on 'Strict health problems'. The question by No 441/28-1-2020, by MP B2' Western Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Current problems for delays and cancellations of chemo therapy in public hospitals". The Question No 395/20-1-2020 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct integration into a financial programme on Hania - Oxylinthos - Kymi Beach, Evia". The Question No 392/20-1-2020 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In the red clinic of the Panarcadian Hospital - closes the pediatric surgery section". The Question No 399/21-1-2020 by MP Evia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Georgios Marinos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Unforeseen continuation of the operation of LARCO, safeguarding all jobs, workers' rights and their necessary hygiene and security measures". The Question No 403/21-1-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Addressing the smog through the "drug" of the heating allowance". The Question No 396/20-1-2020 by MP Rethymno of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the process of completing psychiatric reform". The Question No 401/21-1-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Previous delays in disciplinary procedures relating to the Zak Kostopoulos case". The Question No 410/21-1-2020 by Congressman Piracy of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Tryphona Alexiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Definition of the Director-General for Financial Crime Body". Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Arseni for his excellent report. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) Question No 2813/23-12-2019 by MP Boeotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Geotas Poulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Public investment delays'. Question No 2369/4-12-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To pay directly to the recycling workers and reopen the Materials Selection and Recycling Centre (CIDA) of Heraklion Crete". So we continue with the third with the number 420/24-1-2020 top-level question of the first-round MEP Laurel of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The almond producers in Larissa are worth more than "the crumbs" of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food." The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Fotini Arabatzis. Mrs. Liikali, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, we waited today for the Minister, Mr. Voridis, to be here. Your presence is equally honorable. But Mr Vorides had announced too much about the case we are discussing today with the current question and we were expecting to see it in person, at least, confirm it. Still, I'm guessing he sent you to get us some good news. Great destruction in the Law of Larissa as regards the very dynamic cultivation of almond. Even with a positive sign. The quality of the almond in the Larisa Prefecture, which is already the backbone of the country's rural economy, should be strengthened and the Ministry of Rural Development found an ally. Unfortunately, despite the fact that we have suffered a total destruction in the cultivation of almond, both in the Municipality of Tempus and in the Municipality of Elassona and in the Municipality of Killere, despite the fact that a formal meeting has taken place in your Ministry on November 27th in the presence of the Minister, despite the fact that they met all the municipal councils of the three municipalities that I referred to and have taken unanimous decisions to ask the Ministry to come to this particular problem and to see from the very near what is happening, unfortunately we have not yet heard anything but the first decision of the Ministry. In other words, the standard of payment of EUR 80 per acre by the de minimis system. The request is to include the compensation in the ESDCs in addition or to consider the possibility of joining the ELGAs. I shall conclude, Mr President. It has been months since then and unfortunately radio silence. Just for the record, we have a cost of 300 euros per acre. You know that, too. So the EUR 80 per acre means that the future of production is completely undermined for next year. Because as you know - you are in active policy - there is no production at the moment that everything is not paid up, as far as working conditions are concerned, pesticides and so on. For production. There is no credit, that is, at the moment anywhere in the market. This is an additional issue, an additional problem that does not let them grow for next year. So tell us today that in addition to the 80 euros that you have been discussing since the summer, you are giving and PSEA or join ELGA, as the Minister was committed on 27 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali, too. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Fotini Arabatzis, will answer. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u72	Madam President, I do not imagine that the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, as well as all the heads of the ministries, are united and indivisible. It should also be pointed out here that, at the request of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, there is no parliamentary control that the ministers of this government are not present in order to give clear and concrete answers, contrary to what we have experienced in the clear devaluation of parliamentary control over the past four and a half years. I was therefore waiting for you to say a good word about the fact that, for the first time, de minimis aid was granted for the almond producers in the country, for the phenomenon of acarp, a colleague, who has never been compensated. On the contrary, it has been affecting producers and especially the country's almond producers in recent years, due to the effects of climate change. Since, therefore, you are concerned with agriculture and you come from an agricultural law, you should also know that it was the New Democracy that in 2014 voted to include the risk of incarinity in the safe risks of ELGA, so that producers are compensated by the ELGA and not expect any other kind of aid or compensation. It was the government that preceded it, which for four and a half years had the so-called proportionate study and threw it out in drawers. You refer to a meeting of the Minister in November. In December, therefore, with this joint ministerial decision on 19 December, totalling 19 255 000, we decided, for the first time, that 80 euros should be given to the drop horizontally across the country, to the producers of almond trees, of course, as foreseen, over the four years of age. The amount of funding involved is 6.5 million throughout the country. The beneficiary producers are seven thousand three hundred seventy-five. In your regional section, my colleague, the sum of EUR 2.5 million was paid to two thousand and thirty-four almond producers. In particular, 785,000 euros were paid to six hundred nine producers, while in the Municipality of Tempus six hundred thirty-eight producers received EUR 868,284. You are characterising the 80 euros aspirin. I would remind you, Madam President, that de minimis aid is not possible to cover an overall compensation, but is primarily intended to compensate for the loss of income of the producer so that the producer can respond to the next growing season. On the other hand, you will be aware that the aid in question is national money, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, has a specific ceiling. It's not anarchy and it's not that money. This particular ceiling is recycled every three years. The amount inherited from the previous government is EUR 43 million for all kinds of compensation, for all types of cultivation. Twenty million were therefore given among the others for almonds. Let me note that the almonds, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, have received the highest area support from all the crops we have paid for in this joint ministerial decision. I would like to close by saying that de minimis aid is also the most immediate tool for restoring income and the wider one, because it does not contain the other strict criteria of the remaining compensations. You asked me what further steps will be taken with the producers of the Sarantaporus. These people are, as you know, await compensation from ELGA for the frost on 30-31 March 2019. Eighty statements were made to the correspondents. The announcements have been made and these allowances will be paid at the end of February 2020. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Liikali, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u74	Madam Undersecretary, I really expected from you a different style in your answer. A different political style, which you do not have and I am very sorry. This is not a university, nor are you a teacher to come and shake our finger, telling us how good you are and how uncomfortable your leadership is and how, upon the mandate of the Prime Minister, you are working and that the 80 euros that you gave them "and a lot of are" and that you gave it for next year, to prepare. What you're telling us is out of place and time. It is as if you have never set foot in a field, as if you never know that an area has been cultivated, and you should at least know that 80 euros per acre, not just come to cover the damage, not just give stimulus to go on, not just give an incentive to continue agricultural production, but at least be limited and not expose them with masturbations, saying that it is a dynamic production of an extrovert and export character when you do not believe it because you do not support it. Well, because we all like Jerusalem and because we know well and the sizes that existed last time and what happens and the attempt to lower the tones and say that this is very little and people don't help them. So say it, because we also have to apologize to the political system to cover the damage of a sensitive production, which is also a monoculture. You know what monoculture means, I imagine. There's no other resource from elsewhere. And can I tell you something? In the area for example of the Municipality of Tempus, which I have repeatedly visited - and I sincerely urge you to come - there is so much power in production that these people produce products from the most quality almond - that is, we have tonsil butter, tonsilpasta - and they are trying to make their own way out of production. How? With 80 euros per acre? They've all disappeared. They can't even go out to the cafeteria to know what we're talking about. So I did not characterize it in my question stylish aspirin, native mirrors. That's what they say at the cafeterias. And if you want I take you for a walk, to see exactly what the situation is, and if I'm too much today I'm talking about. He also attended the meeting held at the City Council of the Municipality of Tempon and there beyond the official and usual on-the-spots which solve all the problems, were the only producers. People of labor and work that mix sweat with soil. And he was there to say, "We can't get through and we can't move and live." That is why I did not ask you to justify, Madam Secretary, the 80 euro de minimis and when you gave it and how good the government has given it. I'm asking to know and listen to your plan for these people. Specifically, leave them around - around, on the type of suns, will you give it, CONTROL? Can you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u75	I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u76	Can you help in this direction, so that people can continue, yes or no? It's very simple. Say no, because all the municipalities have sent you a document with the unanimous decisions of the municipal councils - I have them with me, if I have to testify to you - as well as the decisions of all the almond producers associations. What's going on? Will you include them or the 80 euros de minimis and end? That's what you tell us today, so we know what we're going to transfer to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u78	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, your various reports on your personalities and descriptions in your reply, telling me that I came here as a university teacher - I imagine you're underscoring the institution of university teachers - and that I swinged your fingers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u79	You're not a teacher in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u80	I have not proclaimed that role. I have given clear and concrete answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u81	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u82	So I'm giving your specific personal reports. I answered the substance of my prototype. I told you that these people took 80 euros for the first time, and they will receive compensation from those who declared their losses to the ELGA. And I told you at the end of February absolutely specific answer, so. As far as I am concerned, Madam President, your suggestions are that you go to the cafeterias and listen to the almond producers and the other farmers and farmers - I imagine - I just want you to know - you are not obliged to know that - that I am dealing with a country's main agricultural prefecture, which produces 10% of the country's agricultural production, the Serres Law. I have turned the whole country as the Head of Agriculture and I have been fermented with the world of primary production. I've been in many fields, I know how much crop costs are for each crop. So the relevant, let's say, suggestions are paralyzed by this particular question. I told you, Madam President, in the most absolute way, because you know we are realists and not populists, that the money that we received as powerful compensation for de minimis was EUR 43 million. We have chosen wisely, modestly, with real interest for the affected producers, my colleague, to give the 20 million of them. And do you know why, my colleague? Why would we give all 43 million, to get you to see how the de minimis works, in 2020 that we have just welcomed the new year, do you know how much money would be potentially left in the national corps to compensate for any crisis that might happen in the primary sector? Do you know if we've given all 43 million? Two hundred and ten thousand euros, my colleague. Those are the numbers. So here we speak the language of the truth documented. We respect the trouble and sweat of the almond producers as well as the producers throughout the country. That is why I repeat that for the first time we have chosen to give de minimis compensation to the phenomenon of incarnation. With regard to further State financial aid for RPAs, this is now the case. You know very well, the farmers there also know that there, the producers, who have spoken with the correspondents of the ELGA, who have spoken that their possibility of going to PSEA and NGO is subject to certain conditions. What are these conditions in the case of State financial aid? The production of the year of damage has been damaged by type of product in the prefecture by 30% or more, in relation to the average yield of the previous three years, on the basis of official statistics of the country collected by the DAGs and given to the relevant OGAT department, to be documented scientifically by a committee designated by the OGAT that loss of production is the result of an unfavourable weather treaty and not a combination of many, necessary for the initiation of the procedure. Official meteorological conditions must confirm the characterisation of weather conditions, such as unfavourable conditions, and finally approve the cost of damage by the General Accounting Office of the State. In any case, my colleague, it is assumed that these producers have received these eighty. I wish there was a chance we could give two hundred fifty. I wish there was a chance, who doubts that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u83	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u84	However, it should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that any further aid of this kind should not exceed EUR 2000 per producer every three years. You must keep these things in mind. Finally, we must say, of course, to break down every myth that is currently being noted here, that so far the relevant three-member committee of your regional unit, composed of the Director of the DAG, the head of the ELGA and the head of the PES of Larissa, and all the relevant committees of all the regional units of the country, my dear colleague, have not been formally recommended to the ELGA Board, in this regard and justified requests for these producers to be placed under a CEC programme, otherwise an REC. So at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, the suggestions are given and, if they are duly substantiated, we will consider the possibility of meeting the demands, taking into account the country's existing budgetary capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, fifty-seven members of the House. The House welcomes you. Have a good year and health! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the second question with number 439/28-1-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Resolution of the building problem of schools affected by the July earthquake in Aegeleo and Petroupolis". Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, this is a well-known matter. We have discussed the earthquakes too many times in West Athens. The problem that arises here is a little different from our debates so far. It is about the permanentity of school relocation situations. At the moment, we have an important issue, at least, in Petroupoli, the relocation of the second to the first, but in Aegaleo we have, in fact, a situation of chaos, full relocation of too many schools. To give you an image: The building of the 11th grade school and the 1st grade was inappropriately characterized - I would point it out again - by this small earthquake, while the buildings of the 7th and 17th grade schools, which constituted the special school and the preschools of 15th and 28th, have serious problems. The interim solution given was the 11th grade school to transfer and operate to the old 2nd grade on Thebes, which has problems anyway. The 1st high school was set up to date on an afternoon shift and is now being transferred to the building of the old 6th grade school. The special school was transferred to a building in the old 15th grade school, which also has serious problems and operates only in certain rooms. Parts of the 7th are moved and housed in some special school halls. The 17th has been partitioned and some departments were transferred to the 2nd high school, another four are taken daily by bus to the 5th Aigaleo Municipal School and one is doing in a very small room. In closing, kindergartens have been transferred into an annex to Leganas Square, with two of the three sections operating in a few squares. The situation is very difficult. You understand the disruption in the program of students who can no longer do their afternoon activities in the case of Petroupoli, during the operation between the two schools and the rest. Our fear is also how lasting this situation will be. It does not seem that the municipalities are able to cope with the time they need or with such a huge problem. Clearly, they need your own special support. The problem isn't common. We are talking about a complete collapse of the map of school buildings in Aigaleo and a major problem in Petroupoli. That is why I would also like your commitment to assist the municipalities with all possible means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Theodoros Lebanon for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Arsenis, as you know, we had the "fits" earthquake to take place in a period when the schools were closed and we also had a reasonable time to make the self-consciousness of the CIS in order to see which schools had smaller problems and what had bigger problems. Starting from Petroupoli, in fact, there were several school problems, which the vast majority were small-scale and needed small-scale repairs. In two schools, the PAAL and the 2nd GEL Petroupoli, there was a more serious problem. The first positive step is that the municipality's own resources were restored to small losses and the school began to operate to the vast majority. For the 2nd, which needed more specific funding and because the Municipality of Petroupoli is not in the best possible financial situation, a request was made to the Ministry of Interior for exceptional funding of about 1,100,000 euros. From this amount, the Ministry of Interior - now the procedures have been completed - will give EUR 300 000 as immediate help, so that the definitive restoration of the problem can proceed immediately. And I ask the Ministry of Interior for financial support there has been no request. It goes without saying that we are also at the disposal of the mayor and the services of the municipality in whatever assistance is needed. If a request is made, it will obviously be considered as a priority. But what I have to say is that, unfortunately, the July earthquake had a "traditional" sign, it hit the west side of Athens again. There was damage in Haidari too. That is where we gave EUR 200 000, at the end of August, if I'm not mistaken. We proceeded to strengthen the Municipality of Petroupolis and we are in constant contact with the three mayors of the regions, including Haidari. Unfortunately in schools, where there is great damage, the work could not be completed from one day to the next. In the Municipality of Aigaleo, which has started all the procedures for a study of static adequacy of schools, etc., it takes about fifteen months until the contractor's ends, so there is a period that will be required for the smooth operation of schools, and in dentistry we will see a little further in order to bring our schools into better condition. Already a school in Aegaleo, for example, is in a very bad state. We also need to see how we can definitively resolve these issues, mainly with the primary aim of absolute safety for both pupils and teachers working and in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you are honored to recognize the class mark of the earthquake. It really is. Western Athens is not an accidental place, it is a place where citizens have found refuge in their lives. If you want, society has often sent them across the river, across the mountains, and there are whole pieces of municipalities built on old coal mines and there are stagnation issues even with small earthquakes. That is why I would ask you, in fact, to look at these issues very carefully and also to appeal for a more thorough monitoring of buildings, schools and as much as possible of the public infrastructure and private infrastructure, for the very simple reason that it is a particularly vulnerable area, because of the nature of the ground floor, and of human activities sometimes also from a natural background. So, and as we have seen with the earthquake of 17 July, there is really a risk of small earthquakes - and unfortunately the place here is also causing great damage. That is why I would like to beg for special attention from the state on this issue, for impending control, but also to ask, indeed, for you to co-operate and support the efforts of the municipalities. I would like you to explain to us in dentistry, why in Petroupoli are you giving from only EUR 300,000 to Petroupoli? I would also like to ask whether you are prepared, in the event of a request for assistance from Aigaleo, to assist Aigaleo in this enormous work that the municipality has before him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u91	Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u92	To start with your last question, the amount given to the Municipality of Petroupoli, unfortunately or happily - depends on what we see it - the amount to repair natural disasters in the state budget is specific and there is no possibility of granting to too large sums. This is for the first rehab steps. In any case, the problem of school accommodation is particularly important. We are in the year 2020, and I think that one of the things that we need to set as a country in the coming years is to exist where there is a need for modern, safe schools, with environmentally friendly environmental standards, with good energy efficiency, bioclimatics, probably, and that we will do so for reasons, firstly, recognition of how important the issue of school roofing is. With the Ministry of Education, we are involved ministries. The Ministry of Education is responsible for the issues of education in our country. The Ministry of Infrastructure has the "Cypriot S.A." and we will examine the possibility of making a generalized access control. I will also convey the issue to the political leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure. The CFP is also working with its resources to be as close as possible. Its response in July and August with the earthquake was immediate, especially in the areas of western Athens and West Attica. Nearly all schools in the areas and Triasios and Florida and West Athens visited, in order to have a first autopsy of whether there is a risk or not. Apart from the Ministry of Infrastructure, there is probably also the Ministry of Development in the way of funding, to see what we can also integrate for the construction of new school units either from the NSRF or from the Public Investment Program. In any case, however, in both municipalities, but also in any municipality that it needs, especially for schools, there is a certain sensitivity to help in the context of our possibilities. We are working on the operational needs of the schools to be backward in the performances to the municipalities, so that they can meet at least their small, current, operating costs, and we are trying in the new investment programme prepared by the Ministry of the Interior to create a specific chapter on the construction and construction of school units, especially through the implementation of two-year pre-school education, where in particular in urban centres there is a greater need for new rooms, especially in kindergartens. We had done a few months ago a special talk about the Municipality of Petroupoli, which has a very large student population. Obviously we also need to make a view in the future to see what needs this municipality has, to make a plan for the next decade, to see if we need one, two, three schools in addition, so that we don't run again at the last minute, to ask you questions, to answer questions, and to say that we didn't have what to do. We must finally make a plan. Demographic data we have for all municipalities. We can and with the help of ELSTAT to demarcate the needs that exist, predict the future and see, indeed, what is needed throughout Greece in terms of infrastructure and school institutions, so that we can have the best possible learning environment for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-30-S1-commons.u94	With the agreement of the House at 11.38 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday 30 January 2020 at 14.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda.
