ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Structurings to speed up the trial of pending cases under Law 3869/2010 in accordance with the requirements of Article 6(2). 1 ECHR regarding the reasonable duration of the political trial, amendments to the Code of Lawyers and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 29 October 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and all. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request by the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. I would remind you that, in accordance with a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, the time will be strictly respected. I would therefore ask all the rapporteurs and the Minister, as well as the honourable speakers, to keep the time. I would ask the Secretariat' s officials to open the system for the registration of speakers, where you can sign up to the second rapporteur, i.e. until Mr Kalamatiano. Mr. Tsigris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating and voting on the sixth bill of the Ministry of Justice. A bill that aims at speeding up the administration of justice, modernising the Code of Lawyers, removing chronic malfunctions for the Greek legal system, but at the same time simplifying judicial procedures. This bill had to come today, we were asked to the committees. He had to come yesterday, because the great rock, the cross of Greek justice, according to all our contributors, had to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is no more than a slow award. This is not what Angel Tsigris says, the New Democracy does not say, the European Court of Human Rights, which has been permanently, permanently, over the last sixty years since its establishment condemns our country. We've got 534 convictions so far. This costs many millions of euros in our country. At the same time, however, it also costs the sense of law in Greek society. Greek citizens, according to all measurements, do not trust justice, because it is slow to award. There is a quasi-punishment quasi-punishment and a timeless suffering of people looking for their justice. So there's a good start. We are talking for over 100 thousand cases, which are part of the one we call Katselis law, in 3869/2010. We need to know, ladies and gentlemen, that these hundred thousand cases behind them have hundreds of thousands of families waiting, according to today's designations, even until 2035, for their case to be finalised before the Greek peace courts. Do you think that's right? Obviously, the answer to my rhetoric question is from all the good-faithed sides, no. So that ends today. And how does that happen, ladies and gentlemen? It is done with purely procedural intervention. We do not interfere, in the substantive matters of law, with procedural proceedings, in order to shorten the time for jurisprudence, so that cases identified from 2027 and 2032 may come as soon as possible and have been tried until 31 December 2021. This, ladies and gentlemen, will result, first and foremost, in the definitive safeguarding of the interests of weak borrowers, but at the same time, it makes it definitive - until now, the provisional net, the protection that the legislator has created to protect these families. Moreover, it does something else very important. It puts an end to the quasi-protection of strategic malpractices, people who have many, but give nothing to their obligations. But let us see how it is achieved to speed up the procedures and whether that is possible. It's absolutely possible and it's going to be done. In fact, here we will be consistent with the commitment made by the previous government, which promised that it would have completed the trial of the cases that have been brought into the Katselis law by the end of December 2021. We, ladies and gentlemen, will be consistent. First and foremost, to protect weak borrowers and also to protect our country's international credibility. The regulations are horizontal, but not all of them relate to the peace process. Of the total of a hundred forty-two pacifist courts, which our country has, only thirty have cases identified for after 15 June 2020. Of course, someone will say "doesn't need any staff and resources to get out this huge, new volume of work?" In the committees, the Minister has already committed himself that this will be done immediately, after consultation with the country's largest peacekeepers. Let us now see how the prompt administration of justice is ensured in these cases. First and foremost, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in practice that the diagnosis of the truth in Katseli's cases is basically the result of the written procedure. In order to be clearer and to be understood by our fellow citizens, who are watching us on television, it is basically based on bank and tax documents. So the judge sees the tax declaration, bank deposits, tax information, insurance information, and thus draws a conclusion on the level of the household's financial living. Therefore, a relevant procedure with the one followed in the ordinary procedure before the political courts would be the solution. And one wonders: Are we going to have a ban on the principle of orality? No way. On the other hand, the principle of orality applies and may at any time be ordered by the peace judge if he considers this to be beneficial to the interests of the borrower. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first procedural intervention. However, an electronic platform is also being established and we will see whether this electronic platform is necessary. In less than two hours, the Prime Minister will order. We all realize what's going on with the pandemic. With this electronic platform we quickly ensure, directly - with one click - that the borrower can take his bank and tax data directly on his computer, with a printing costless, with no hard feelings, no long tails on the banks and taxes. Imagine sending hundreds of thousands of borrowers to pile up in banks and taxes. It would at least be, in our judgment, irresponsible. And allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to add that we are ensuring this at no cost. In other words, all notifications will be made at no cost. What borrower disagrees with these arrangements? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, something very important. We thus guarantee the weak, first and foremost. I repeat that. Of our hundred thousand fellow citizens who have joined, the vast majority are people who have a hard walk. We are protecting these people with a definitive protection net, within a short time, with a reasonable duration of trial, in order to be consistent with our European obligations and with the European Convention on Human Rights, in order not to be a black sheep and not to be convicted of violating Article 6(1) of the ECHR by the European Court of Justice every year. All this, ladies and gentlemen, ends today. But I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am very happy and honoured to be the rapporteur of the New Democracy, the parliamentary majority, today, of such a reform plan for justice. Because it is not only about speeding up justice, which is the big rocky one, but also about the Code of Lawyers, the modernisation, that is, the outdated provisions governing the legal service. In particular, Olympians and Paralympian lawyers have the right, of course, like all the Olympians, to nominate the public. This means an automatic miscarriage of their legal status. When they leave the public sector, we do not allow them to return to the legal profession again. Do you see it fair? So today this obvious injustice takes a definitive end. The possibility of extending the exercise time of lawyers is allowed from six to twelve months. That's how we make better colleagues on the market. The new colleague will now be more prepared to deal with the legal reality in practice. And of course, with funds from the European Union, it will receive a salary of EUR 600 per month. But at the same time, the courts, the public sector and local authorities will be strengthened with the law-makers in need. The responsibility for conducting the examinations of candidate lawyers is also transferred from the central department of the Ministry of Justice to the competent body, which is not one of the legal entities governed by public law, to the plenary session of the associations of Greece. At the same time, the incompatibility of the examinations is ensured, since senior judicial officers, senior lawyers and prominent academics will be involved in the committees of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, we are increasing the legal matter. Lawyers will now be able to carry out checks on the property offices and the mortgage offices, and a number of other actions that they have not yet been able to do. I left it, ladies and gentlemen, last but not least: this piece of legislation enables the collective bodies of the country's lawyers to meet by means of a remote teleconferencing. We had a meeting of our parliamentary group yesterday under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister. They spoke more than thirty, forty colleagues. We had an excellent three-hour meeting, and yet there was no problem. Why are we politicians allowed while we don't allow lawyers? This, in fact, ends today and will serve the lawyers of the instants, mainly, and island regions. But, beyond that, the bill includes a number of other provisions. In particular, there is a reform of the Code of Judicial Officers. We are now able to draw up interrogative reports on facts which are carried out in the performance of their duties. I don't know if we all agree in this Chamber, but the curators agree. However, provision shall be made for the judicial curator to be assisted by a qualified technical consultant in cases where necessary. It is also supported by staff by the Court of Justice Finance Fund, which is known to us as law-makers as FTLs, who have been responsible for yet another task since 2012, to pay the orders of fellow lawyers who provide their services within the framework of the legal aid institution. Recently, he also took over the payment of the ombudsmen. Today, ladies and gentlemen, thirty-five thousand outstanding payment orders are stacked at the FFD. With the support of FIFG staff, lawyers and ombudsmen will be able to pay directly. Moreover, the organic positions at the Court of Auditors, in which with Law No4700/2020, which we have all voted on together, a new audit section has been set up from what you know. Yes, but this has created arrhythmias in the functioning of the other chambers, because it is not enough for the judges, with a decisive vote and there is a great deal of ruthless advisers, attendants and rapporteurs. And this arrhythmia ends today. Finally - to be absolutely consistent in my time - there has been a lot of talk, ladies and gentlemen, about the unification of the two prosecutors of special duties, the prosecutor of fraud and the prosecutor of financial crime. Do you know of there being in Europe - in Europe as a whole and not only in the European Union - another state with two prosecutors for these two related items? There isn't. We also have that specificity. We have in our hands and the recommendation of the Standing Committee on Monitoring the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure, which unanimously agrees that the two prosecutors should be consolidated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with these few thoughts. If, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that justice is the last fort of the weak, if we really want - and not pretexts - to protect the weak, we must fortify the fort, we must shield justice, we must speed up its award, we must agree on the big ones, we must now say a great 'yes' to this big government reform plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Cigri. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by addressing the critical developments in the health crisis. The situation is dramatic. Our society as a whole has become aware of the restrictive measures proposed by experts during the first phase of the pandemic. The government has eight months to prepare itself for the second wave, to protect the population health, to avoid or delay a second destructive lockdown. Unfortunately, you did not take advantage of this opportunity that the Greek people gave you with great sacrifices. This second closure of the economy is proof of your failure. You're looking for excuses for individual responsibility. Again, I say that the vast majority of citizens have been disciplined, has shown responsibility. So stop transferring responsibility and recognise your own enormous responsibilities, your responsibilities for opening up tourism without a plan, without tests and checks, your responsibilities for opening up schools without any measure of protecting our children. You only gave them giant masks, and that's not all. By more than 25 October, a thousand schools were closed because of the occurrence. Consider and accept your responsibilities for large crowding in public transport. Mostly, however, your responsibilities for your inability or refusal to strengthen with doctors, nurses and intensive care unit beds the National Health System, the NHS that is currently at the moment with a hundred and eighty tubed is already at scary pressure and is forced to limit surgery by 80%. Honestly, we would be pleased if you had succeeded in doing everything that had to be done to prevent us from getting here. We have contributed to this with positive proposals and practical solutions. I would remind you of the 'thank you' of the Minister of Health Mr Kikilia to Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, the former ministers of health, who have proposed practical solutions to increase intensive care units. He told them "thank you", you remember that. Unfortunately, however, we failed. At the same time as your inadequacy in managing the health crisis, you are not substantially strengthening the entire sectors of the economy and you are leading workers and businesses to bankruptcy, lock-up and unemployment. In this griefful situation, while you should support those without their responsibility, who cannot fulfil their obligations to maintain social cohesion, you choose to vote for laws that liquidate the property of citizens who are bankrupt by businesses and natural persons, who leave completely unprotected even the first place. After the new bankruptcy law you passed last week, you bring this bill today. And what are you doing? You are over-compensating the position of borrowers. That is clear, ladies and gentlemen. Of all the cases that have been delayed in their trial, you choose to shorten only those that are affecting the economically weaker, those who are trying to save their home. You only choose to bring closer together. Minister, you said that we were committed to legislating on the redefinition of these cases. First of all, we would not choose this way that you choose, this burdensome way for borrowers. We would not choose to punish and cause excessive burdens on borrowers, as we avoided doing so with relative legislation in 2015. In any case, in 2018, when this commitment was made, it was the year we came out of the memorials, and certainly, there was no pandemic. You could now take advantage of the juncture and the health crisis and avoid voting on these provisions. Many European countries have taken measures to protect and remove auctions. So you have had the opportunity to ask for and succeed in suspending this burdensome piece of legislation for thousands of our fellow citizens. But you don't want to avoid it. From the result, you do not want to help our fellow citizens who have found themselves in a weakness of payment. In three meetings of the committee, we hear you argue in favour of these provisions, that they are supposed to speed up the trial and everything is fine and everything is fine. The law, I would remind you, 3869/2010, which is of course true today, applies to those who have applied for subjection and protection in this law, was voted at a difficult time for the country and the citizens. The bankruptcy you contributed in 2009 had begun. The legislator rightly arranged for legal protection not to lose their assets for those who were suddenly and without their own responsibility for inability to pay, of course because of the rapid change in circumstances in the economy. Today, then, in the economic crisis with the economy in even greater recession since then, the difficult situation is no different. On the contrary, it's worse. The difficult situation of these people is worse today. What's different? That the country has been out of memory since August 2018. The institutions are not strangling us right now. The European Union is talking about quantitative relaxation and there is a lifting of the Stability Pact. There are therefore all these conditions not only to ensure that these provisions are not passed but, on the contrary, to extend the protection of the law. You're not choosing it, though. It is clear that you do not want it, because the banks want this bill to be passed as you have brought it. The administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Bay makes two important and essential points. It observes ambiguity about compliance with the constitutional principle of the natural court. Points out that the success of the contested provisions depends on the proportion of outstanding applications to be redefined in relation to the number of peacekeepers. It pounds the alarm and says "notice" the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay. I summarise the contents and consequences of the provisions you propose. First of all, the borrowers must redefine with an unacceptable penalty, at their own expense, their applications and, indeed, within a suffocating period. The information they are required to produce is not available and it is very difficult to find all these data in such a short time: tax documents which do not exist electronically and must therefore be sought at the appropriate IMOs. Banks have transferred many of these files to fund, so they may not have these elements or want not to give them. All that weight is on the borrower. Where will he get it within these deadlines and with lockdowns and pandemics without the services running? Where's he going to get them? How will he produce them? He'll lose rights. Further, remove the orality of the procedure. I describe to you what the burdensome provisions of this bill are. It's clear who you want to protect. It's clear who you leave exposed. And yet, move on. Do you abolish the orality of the procedure? Is that simple? Those of you who are lawyers understand that it's not simple at all. You're changing the procedural procedure. No witnesses shall be examined. If the judge wants to, he can call, you say. The right of the citizen to make it the judge's discretion, as to whether to examine witnesses. Isn't that a burden? Ladies and gentlemen, you are lawyers. Explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u6	The Code of Civil Procedure you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u7	Be careful with the provision, Mr. Plearis, you're a lawyer and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Flouris, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u9	Don't change the conversation now. That's all I'm saying. I say that it was the borrower's right under the law in force to date. And from now on, it will be at the discretion of the judge with the law you are voting on, not the Code of Civil Procedure. Don't say it like that. Read.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u10	You've changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u11	Now you're voting on this, Mr. Plearis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u12	Wait a minute, don't argue. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u13	But it says inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u14	It is regulated by the Civil Procedure, but it has other conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u15	Of course, he's regulating it. The right to a borrower's right to a borrower shall, however, become discretionary to the judge. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u16	You guys have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u17	Don't interrupt, please. I'll talk to you. State that you will be a speaker and say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u18	While these cases are now under the voluntary jurisdiction that helped the borrower to find his right, they will now be discussed in the ordinary procedure, a hybrid procedure. He has sixty days and not a hundred days to present his proposals. He's a burden again. The time limit for appeal shall be reduced. Someone had two years to appeal. Now, you've been doing this for six months. You know, how many cases will be lost? Do you know how many times they won't go to the lawsuit by this provision? Again, you're lawyers. Understand the situation. If the request for redefinition is not submitted in time, the request for settlement of debts shall be deemed not to be exercised and the provisional order of the court shall be automatically repealed. Finally and sudden death for the borrower. To sum up, with the provisions you propose, the exclusive procedural and financial burden is clearly transferred to the applicant borrower. At the same time, citizens' right to legal protection shall be abolished within the framework of the principles of equality, legal certainty and fair trial. In fact, it will be impossible under pandemic conditions to keep the suffocating deadlines for thousands of borrowers. Public services are down. In the banks, the physical presence is impossible, much more now, which, in two hours, will be announced by Prime Minister Lockdown. Where are the borrowers going to find the cards? Where will they find the evidence and documents by spring? It is clear that the bill only serves the interests of banks that have been recapitalised by the lack of the Greek people, who have made huge haircuts in loans from shipowners and big businessmen and benefactors in your party, New Democracy, as well as in specific businesses. Now, they're trying to get people's property too. Punitiveness and unequal treatment of parties in favour of the banks impairs all the provisions. At second reading, Minister, we made concrete proposals to improve the situation of this bill. Unfortunately, we see that you do not want to accept these few and perfectly fair proposals. You don't even want the people, the borrowers, to be relieved. It's not the pandemic, it's the lockdown, it's the economic catastrophe you're bringing for the second time. Minister, our criticism is also confirmed by the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. You got her. You saw her. What's he pointing at? It highlights exactly the same concerns. The Office refers to the burglary of equality between the citizens who have already requested a settlement of their debts, provided that those who will be tried on the basis of the provisions that you will be voting on will be tried by different rules from those who are in a previous period. Parliament's Scientific Service refers to an excessive restriction of arms equality between the debtors and creditors respectively. It says, in other words, that everything in favour of the banks. It refers to a violation of the general legality of the proceedings and of legal certainty. Truth and reality can't be hidden. Understand it. All these provisions create burdensome conditions for borrowers. Obviously, the banks want this to be done with these cases. Now let's go to the second place. We are constantly highlighting the reduction in the limitation of disciplinary misconduct from five years to three years. There is no clear and concrete reason to legislate a new limitation period. Furthermore, under existing law, as long as the criminal proceedings and one year after the adoption of an irrevocable decision or irrevocable negligence, the limitation of the disciplinary action shall be suspended. This must remain. With the provision you bring, we will have the paradox to impose penalties on criminal law and to dismiss disciplinary proceedings as a result of limitations. Our objections to Articles 28 and 31 are not repeated. We have already fully exposed them to the meetings. You seem determined to vote in spite of the reactions. In Chapter C, for the principle of ne bis in idem, that is to say, the principle prohibiting double sanction for the same infringement, the proposed provisions do not substantially address the problem. You do not carry out a comprehensive restructuring of the regulatory field. You only do so in cases of smuggling and tax evasion crimes. It's a fragmented legacy. And that raises many questions. You are going to apply that principle of resolving the issue that most favours all the provisions of criminal courts. The legislator, however, in accordance with the latest legal developments, may impose a double penalty, administrative and criminal, if the first penalty does not suppress the infringement committed in an effective, necessary and dissuasive manner. Also, Minister, listen, what the President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors said about the limitation of the offences of smuggling and tax evasion before 1 July 2019, i.e. before the new Criminal Code, which provides for the suspension of the limitation, and with the old Criminal Code, these cases will be subject to limitation. The President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors referred to in Article 40 as being a charitable photographic provision. You insist on moving forward. This is a serious complaint. He has to answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need another minute because there has been a interruption. With Article 65, for the second time you change the Code of Criminal Procedure. You're abolishing the corruption attorney this time. Transfer the powers to detect the financial crime to the new Department of Economic Crime of the Attorneys' Prosecutors' Office in Athens. In fact, you are expelled before the end of the term of office of the current prosecutor of corruption investigating the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. That's clear. The Prosecutor of Corruption was founded in 2011 and was staffed in 2013 by the Government of Samara - Venizelos. Two financial prosecutors who investigated the "SIEMENS" and Lagard list were then removed. Now, a major investigation is under way to investigate a scandal that has proved to have damaged the Greek State, professed by "NOVARTIS". You now choose to abolish the corruption prosecutor who investigates it and removes the file. You realise that you are suffering a great deal, a huge blow, to the credibility of the political system. But you don't fall. The aim is to prosecute the district attorney. You are disturbed by your government's investigation into "NOVARTIS" and you are abrogating its position. Besides, the top Minister, the Vice-President of the New Democracy, quickly welcomed the arrangement under discussion with a statement on social media. Previously, he had publicly said that the prosecutor in question must go to prison for many years. He's been through this. Now, it's time to get rid of her. But the people are watching and judging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kalematian. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law we are debating today comes at an extremely difficult time for the Greek economy, where income is suffocated, business turnovers in 2020 fell by EUR 50 billion, according to the report of the National Bank of Greece, unemployment reaches around 20%, job suspension and rotating work is even more pressing on Greek citizens. And, of course, there is some time before the Prime Minister's joint decree with Mr Tsiodra, where we expect to hear the imposition of a universal lockdown due to the eruption of incidents and intubated ones, with all the consequences that this might bring to the Greek economy. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, what we could have avoided, we will live after an unplanned approach, with fragmentation, with errors and oligopoies. Unfortunately, the government was deaf in our proposals, and it was quite clear that it was deaf in the recommendations of experts and scientists, some of which if it applied earlier, would certainly not have been led so quickly to this result. Now, then, we are being pushed into a lockdown basically because of the limits that have reached the announced weakness of the National Health System. We shall have, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the opportunity and the opportunity to discuss the causes, the responsibilities, how we have led to this. Don't expect silence. We'll fight against the pandemic. We will constantly make creative proposals, as we did in the first phase of the coronary. However, there is no way that the evidence, which has led us here, cannot be pointed out. Self-sufficiency, self-admiration and burying responsibility, Minister, in no case do they help. I'm going back to today's bill. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this draft law actually comes directly after the new bankruptcy code, a law - an abortion that is pushing for a supposed negotiation with creditors. And now this draft law comes to complete the job. You say you're trying to speed up the trial of the pending cases of the Katseli Act, Minister. In essence, however, what you are doing is to remove to a very large extent the procedural provisions you are bringing, the very essence of the judicial protection of Greek citizens. And the title, Mr Minister, is ironic, not to say challenging, that you are supposed to do all of this in order to comply with Article 6(1) of the ECHR Treaty, because you are doing exactly the opposite, that is to say you are seizing Article 6(1) of the ECHR Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, to say things by their name, Law 3869/2010 was the first and essentially the only law that provided adequate and complete protection in the first place. Of course - and we know it and we all recognise it - they had been embroiled - yes - some abusive behaviours, there were - some uncertainties of the procedural system which had led to serious problems. Indeed, the very timely assumptions of the Katseli Act, which were identified after 2027, 2028 and 2032, Minister, were - and remain - a very serious issue, which, yes, requires a solution. No one can argue with that. And in order that we do not have a selective memory, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officer, the truth is that it was your government, the SYRIZA Government, committed since June 2018 to close all outstanding cases by 2021. So why is all this wrath, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Is it or isn't it hypocritical? However, we believe that any necessary corrective action, which you say you are trying to do with this draft law, cannot in any case lead to the demolition, deprivation, deprivation, if you like, of the right to first residence. And the procedural arrangements you bring, that's exactly where you lead us. So we have told you in the committees, and here, in the House - against the changes made to Law 3869, as you bring them, because we absolutely believe that under no circumstances can they solve the problem and, in conjunction with the new Bankruptcy Code, which the House voted on in the last few days, they will simply lead to the suffocation of thousands of weak households. Minister, while the country is sinking into the second wave of pandemic and economic measures lead to a large number of businesses, workers and households, auctions are continuing at an unsatisfactory pace. We therefore believe that your obligation is self-evident and we expect to hear it shortly with the announcement of Lockdown, the suspension of auctions throughout the country. And, of course, Mr Minister, we expect to see what the government's comprehensive plan will be and what is going to happen in the post-Lockdown era. Because you understand that suddenly not everything is going to be perfect after the lockdown. Debris and ruins leave these. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to resolve the problem of delays in the ruling of the Katseli Act, as has been seen today, we must first be able to understand what the cause of the problem is. So, Minister, have you wondered how it is possible for the peace-keeping parties themselves to respond and deal with a huge volume of cases - thirty-seven thousand outstanding cases - within the six-month suffocating timetable? Do you think it is possible, when, as I have repeatedly said, there are already too many gaps - almost forty places of peace in 2019 - for which we have not heard anything specific from you? And, of course, we consider it self-evident that the positions which have been vaccinated, as well as your basic obligation to increase the organic positions of the peacemakers, should be fulfilled so that the process can be speeded up. So, to speak clearly here, the essence of the problem lies in the inadequacy of infrastructure and human resources, not in the procedure or procedure that you change in an unfavourable, unfavourable way for Greek households and behind which you are trying to hide. Minister, this bill is suffering from everywhere. There is, first of all, a series of very serious legal issues. The first is that we consider it unconstitutional and extremely problematic the provision that, if these entries and redefinitions are not made on the platform, it will be considered - listen - as if the request for assistance has never been given. Colleagues in particular can understand that. In other words, the retrospective view as non-exercise is causing too many and serious problems. Also, this bill suffers from unconstitutionalism both in relation to Article 221 of the Code of Civil Procedure for the change of procedure once the law has been enforced, but also in view of the fact that there will also be two procedures of overdue households, one on the basis of the voluntary procedure for borrowers whose affairs will be dealt with up to 30-6-2021 and the other on borrowers whose cases will be discussed after 30-6-2021 with the new procedure you bring, the regular procedure. There was a solution, Minister, and you put it before the Change Movement in the Committees. The redefinition of the cases should have become housewives, as took place in cases relating to COVID -19 and the closure of the courts at the time and, of course, on the basis of the provisions of Law No.4336/2015, where the redefinition is made not with the responsibility of the borrower. In any event, it should not be considered that the debtor has not applied for a redefinition of the debtor as having never been exercised. I wonder, honestly, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible, while we experience a lockdown, that we discuss the suffocating deadlines of this bill, especially when it requires the collection of a large number of data, many of which are not electronically, from taxes, from banks and many more. They make it extremely difficult, not to say forbidden. Nor can I stress the procedure that it is not possible to apply at least proportionally the provisions of Law No4335 and limit the period of submission of proposals from the hundred days to the sixties, as is also the case that you are limiting the exercise of the abuse period from two years to six years. There is absolutely no reason to justify this shortening of deadlines, or rather, Minister, there is one, the facilitation of banks, as your Government has exemplarily demonstrated, that it cares and is cut. In any case, it is clear that the Change Movement is absolutely in favour of speeding up procedures in relation to the judiciary in the Katseli Act, but not in these suffocating timetables, not in the case of the only written procedure - if you like - and excludes the vitality and guarantees of the oral procedure and not the shortening of the deadlines. In relation to the cases that have to do with the prosecution of corruption and its incorporation - if you wish - with the prosecutor of financial crime, ladies and gentlemen, there were little objections - and that is what we all know in this Chamber - about the creation of an ever-powered public prosecutor, which was not part of the prosecution hierarchy, as is guaranteed and defined by the law. In fact, there are some very serious cases which are already being investigated by the judiciary for abuse of power in the handling of pending cases, such as the 'NOVARTIS' case. The Prosecutor has worked, lost her independence against executive power and ultimately was a crucial link in a chain of actions that are now in the microscope of justice. We'll repeat, Minister, that when a law is good, we don't just change it to put our signature under as ministers in a new piece of legislation. We therefore believe that if we want to tackle the issue effectively, we must return to the original regulation of Law 4022/2011, which provided for the primary interrogation and trial of the acts of corruption of political and public officials, which had been passed unanimously by Parliament. The return of citizens' confidence in justice and the strengthening of our entire institutional function by quickly clarifying the criminal proceedings is absolutely essential. Of course, it is right to regulate the abolition of the prosecution of corruption by merger with the prosecutor of economic crime. But, as we have said many times to the committee, you continue to make the same mistake, in essence, that is, 'you're putting' a hat again to the natural judge just now the prosecutor of financial crime. And, of course, if there is absolutely no misunderstanding, there is absolutely a need for transitional provisions for the completion of cases which are currently being handled by the competent prosecutor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this draft law cannot in any way lead to speeding up the ongoing procedures of the pending cases of the Katseli Act. Nor do you care, Minister, that there are convicts in our country by the courts of the European Union for delaying the administration of justice, because very simply, if you really cared about this, then you would have led with a comprehensive draft and a comprehensive bill of intervention to address the problem as a whole, not just to cut off for speeding up the procedures of the Katseli Act, but for all the chronicles that are the great cancer of the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u21	Please, finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u22	Instead - I close, Mr President - you are effectively abolishing citizens' rights to legal protection, in the context of the principles of equality, the rule of law and fair trial. You do the favor of the banks. We are not surprised, after all, that you have done the same in the Bankruptcy Code and in most of the bills you have brought and, unfortunately, you are faced with as an unnecessary burden - and that is sad - the cases involving thousands of weak households. So at a time when everything is suspended, taxes, insurance contributions, obligations, in no case can it be your main concern and your government's wish to satisfy just the banks at the expense of a seated society after ten years of crisis and two coronary crises, two pandemic crises. As a Change Movement we have tabled concrete proposals to address the problem, to which you have been deaf, and we shall therefore vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. I now ask Mrs Maria Konnakas, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Lord of Government, once again as a paper tower the story about the armouring of the public health system. They make the hospitals, in an official way now you turn them into hospitals of a disease, as if the needs of other patients can be frozen and you continue to ignore the serious demands made by the health workers themselves, which, of course, you have occasionally welcomed with the MATs. The constant negative records of cases throughout the country show in the most tragic way your enormous responsibilities. You have left the workers and the people exposed, without taking substantial measures to protect their health at the workplaces that have become incubators of the disease, the public transport and the schools, without, to date, saying a word about the need for large private health establishments to be required to provide adequate and complete services to hospitals. On the contrary, you show great importance and continue with this bill the pogrom you have unleashed, even in these circumstances, against the people's housing. Legislate the excursion of the pending applications of Katseli law so that without the slightest obstacle the router of the new bankruptcy code can pass by the top, the "second chance", as you said, which at best makes the people tenants in his home and the slave of the banks. Of course, the two instruments did not happen at random. They are the implementation of the same strategic choice: to solve for the benefit of the banks the great problem of private overcompensation by tightening the nipple once again on the workers and the people. These bills have diverse extensions and targets related to wider restructuring of the Greek economy, contribute rapidly to the concentration and concentration of capital, with the destruction of small businesses, literally crushed by the monopolistic groups, while at the same time facilitating the concentration of real estate and land in less and less hands. That is why the thirty-seven thousand outstanding applications that were identified after June 2021 have really shown impressive consistency with the commitments made by SYRIZA to the European institutions and you are trying to implement. You do this by violating even any urban-democratic insurance, basic principles of civil law. And that is what you call 'conformity with the principle of fair trial'. What do you say? The state may be responsible for the long delays in the administration of justice, the gaps and the undermining of the pacifist courts, but in order for the State to fulfil that obligation, to ensure the reasonable duration of the trial, the borrower will pay it. It's like, "Keeling, you're losing letters." Not only do you charge borrowers the responsibility for speeding up and the cost of redefining the cases, but you also impose a suffocating timeframe on them, in which they must gather a huge volume of supporting documents and documents with the threat that if they fail to end the'marathon' in time, their application should be considered as not being exercised. Even the provisional orders of the courts which have been issued and temporarily regulate payments to debtors will also be considered as lost. And all this while the pandemic's hovering. By the time the Prime Minister announces to announce a new lockdown across the country you choose to create an excessive stress on borrowers and lawyers to respond to deadlines anyway unenforceable. It was itself the association of judges and prosecutors who pointed out as insufficient even the sixty days to collect the volume of evidence which does not allow for effective and effective judicial protection of borrowers. However, there is also an inappropriate reduction in the right to appeal from the two years in which the decision is not served in six months, making there is a risk that the right to appeal will be lost for a multitude of borrowers because they will not even have time to take the decision. The unconstitutionality of these rules is therefore justified when in practice legal proceedings pending before the court are effectively withdrawn without being brought before the judge when the right to access the natural judge is violated, that is to say, one of the crowns, as you call civil democracy and independent justice. Even more critical and dangerous incision is the abolition of the hearing and examination of witnesses in the patterns of the new written procedure. You betray on every occasion your intentions, which are common objectives, your own and previous governments, for generalised reactionary changes in the field of justice. It is characteristic that, initially, the special differences in the exclusively written procedure were also attempted. So what? In the labour disputes, the worker with documents had to prove that he did not pay overtime, overtime, and that it was impossible to prove himself. And while at the expense of the outcry you were forced for these special procedures to take this misery back, your intention of the direction you are trying to give to justice is confirmed, a justice that, as the Pissaridis report points out, by a factor of uncertainty, should be converted into an investment factor. Of course, we do not have any illusions about how the constitutional protection of the principle of public trial can be done at any time. It is characteristic - I do not know how satisfied it is - that the declaration that the limits of constitutional protection are tested in the written procedure. However, it is not a question of having the backing of constitutionality, of saving, that is, the lost value of the constitutionality of the provisions. The question is whether the substance of the provision is salvaged, the core of the rights to protect the orality of the procedure. Is the judge really able to form a proper judicial conviction, i.e. to create a real picture of the reasons for overcharge, inability to pay, only with documents and tax statements? Minister, such issues of particular social sensitivity cannot be judged in the logic of computing tools and numbers. The living evidence procedure, the testimony of the witnesses, the examination of the party itself many times are the ones enabling the judge to form a more correct direct picture of the situation, and this procedure cannot be replaced by documents and sworn statements, known for their insufficient evidence. If you want, even the narrative of the so-called strategic malpractice, it is easier to prove when he suffers the suffering of questions, because you know very well that the real strategic malpractices, the big businessmen, the shipowners, the canalarchs have a great deal of competence. After all, you also systematically treat them as economically helpless and on every occasion strengthen them with all kinds of gifts. But for every one of them, who does not have an organised legal service behind him to form an appropriate tax picture, how can it be ensured that the judge does not judge on the basis of documents alone that the elements of inability are not proven and will reject his application, when there is absolutely no commitment to examine witnesses who could justify his financial weakness? Much more so when you actually obligate the debtors themselves to prove that they have not been driven into over-lapping, a convenient theory adopted in recent years by the courts in order to obscure the real causes of overcompensation of the people's strata. But all that, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is indifferent to you because you are seeking to uncover the cases, the loss of any protection of the highly indebted people's layers by demand at all times of all the banks and the needs of the economy, for which you, of course, are concerned. In relation to the Code of Lawyers, there is indeed a lot of discussion over the last few years about changes to be made. But what really concerns and must solve any amendments to the code is how the rights of the majority of the wages and self-employed lawyers with the lowest incomes will be protected, the safeguarding of working and insurance rights of the lawyers who work in the large legal corporations or other lawyers and who are being baptized "cooperatives", and the democratic procedures in the operation of the legal associations really need to be strengthened. These are changes, of course, which are in the opposite direction to those promoted by this bill. For example, one of the top-level requests put forward by the legal world over time is the abolition of the anachronistic institution of the exercise. Instead, you legislate on extending the time spent in courts and public structures from six to twelve months. Of course, none of your arguments - at least at least any of those who have been through these procedures - are convinced of the fuller knowledge of those who are employed through them, when it is known that the only thing that contributes to this regulation is to fill gaps in the state mechanism, which of course should be recruited, which, with the dropper and opportunity, you are doing. You are defending the maintenance of a regime that holds a hostage and recycles a flexible and cheap scientific staff, with disgusting working relationships, to the benefit of large offices and major law firms, and the rather useful offer of the exercise is their systematic education to work without hours and rights. On the other hand, the exercise could indeed have a substantial content, in terms of academic processes, by reforming the undergraduate curriculum, so as to put an end to this terrible situation for thousands of young scientists. The diploma may and must be the only condition for obtaining a professional licence without examinations and other additional conditions such as qualifications and skills. Truly, can the examinations of objects that have already been taught and examined by much more demanding examinations at the university be a criterion of science and competence? All these processes in the name of allegedly upgrading the scientific level of lawyers are part of the direction of the creation of multi-speed graduates, of ever-increasing obstacles to obtaining permission and for chasing lifelong learning. Even the arrangements introduced in the code for teleconferences at the general meetings of the island regions may solve an objective difficulty in these areas, but they must not be extended and established on a wider scale. Teleconferencing, electronic votes and others do not protect, but rather degenerate and undermine the collective functioning of their associations and organs. Moreover, the most comprehensive guidelines for controlling the activities of unions, for the intervention of the State and the employer in them, as reflected in the subsequent changes in the trade union law, show the feasibility of the trends involved. Accordingly, for distance conferences, by electronic means, the judicial officers are concerned about the risks posed to maintain the secrecy of the conference. It is characterised by the association of administrative judges that it is easier to exchange views at the conference in a natural presence and therefore request that teleconferencing be a possible only option in exceptional cases, in the judgement of the majority of the composition. Overall, there is an attempt to present the extension of electronic justice through the bill as a mere positive tool, but this does not develop into a neutral environment. It is an integral part of the reactionary changes that are being promoted in the urban state as a whole. In addition, there are areas where interest in critical sectors in the economy and investment, in the real estate registers, in the auctions, in the various registers for businesses and in the platforms for cross-border information on the debtors' profile and, of course, in the suppression of the urban state implemented primarily through the Criminal Law. A click will literally present all information about a particular person from all sources and databases held by the urban state and various private enterprises. Such procedures are also working as a vehicle to extend the removal of the oral procedures. It is not possible, of course, to allow time to refer to all the articles in the bill. I have referred to a large number of these in committee, and, of course, to the fact that the bill is once again the stitching of many unrelated issues, which you have literally taken off with the storming of amendments, continuing with unacceptable tactics. I am not going to place myself on them now, but then. However, I would like to make a reference to just a few articles, such as, for example, the amendment to the criminal treatment of limitations when insurance debts are regulated. The regulation can indeed deal with an issue that has arisen at the expense of self-employed professionals, but there remains the risk that the immunity of the great-fashioned, that is to say, those who concentrate most of the debt on the insurance funds and who of course benefit from the various regulations and remain unavoidable. In other words, it is shown that these horizontal arrangements often create the greatest inequalities when applied in the same way to unequal subjects. We also consider Article 51 to be inadmissible once again to treat the press bands. We cannot understand why it is planned for them alone - no matter how many times we have asked the question - the self-justified lifting of the seizure after the eighteenth - for seizures imposed only on offences by the press - we cannot understand why you are only choosing to lighten the structures of the press. Of course, in relation to Rule 65 next, in relation to the merger of the financial prosecutor with the prosecutor's office of corruption, we do not agree with the political purposes that you obviously wish to serve, but more importantly for us, we disagree on the creation of special prosecutors in general, let alone this creation of a supreme prosecutor operating as a chosen unit in the judiciary. The JRC will vote against the bill at first, which is another link in the barbaric rupture and the attack you have made against the people's strata, but it is also the application, dangerous and reactionary, of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have every right to legislate, to do whatever you want. You are a government, Minister and rapporteur of the New Democracy, but you have no right to play with our intelligence and to rape our logic. It cannot be said in this Chamber that "we are doing you and thanks to a pandemic", rapporteur, "and we are bringing this good bill to save the homes of the world". That is what you said before and in the middle of a pandemic we are speeding up the procedures to end once and for all. You can't rush our logic. Legislation. Do what you want. You're a hundred and fifty eight. You will be judged by the world, but you will not rush our logic. Because if what you said is not the case, then what the Minister said in private in committee does not help. So either it doesn't help Timing and it's wrong you bring it or it helps because you're done. Decide, because you're confusing each other. You will not rush our logic in this Chamber. Two years ago, Minister, when you claimed the vote of the Greek people, your government, not only you, spoke of a government of excellence - I remember it - which would get Greece out of the stall. A year and a half ago, when you took over the country's helms, Greek citizens, Minister, invested in your promise and handed over the wheel of the country to you. Today, when we talk about these issues, the blood of the Greeks is frozen because the excellent technocrats, who would be you, have mutated into exquisite Mavroyalures. That's exactly what's happened. Today, then, the Greeks see the hands that hold the wheel of the country, the captain, or are ready to drop the boat on the rocks. The economy - so you said - would be your strong card. I won't say the asset, asset was Tsipras's, but you're both very good in the economy, and you, and you, and PASOK, of course, went bankrupt. Your strong point is the economy! Alas, we're not talking about it! With policies - so you promised - and economic theories inspired by Harvard - you would speed up my speed, Mr Minister, the strengthening of Greek households. That's what you said. And you'd do it how? Armoring the pillars of justice. That's what you'd do. But what justice are we talking about today? But one and a half years now, Minister, you are going without compass and without any political morality. No political morals! With the recent Acquisition Code, which we voted on a few days ago, you handed over thousands of first homes to the bloodthirsty banks. With today's bill you are giving a charismatic shot to make sure that none of the houses get away with this project. Nothing stops you, you don't listen to anyone, you don't count on anyone. You have the Greeks in the Balaur, you condemn them to unemployment - in half an hour from now, at 12 noon, we will hear the mistresses from the Prime Minister - take their homes and get them homes and really do not hesitate to forge, as it suits you, even justice. And I wonder: Do you not listen to society? And don't tell me after that, when you talk, that you hear it, and that you want to unlock it, because it's been waiting twenty and twenty-five years to solve these cases. You're wrong! Wrong people, you're listening! Can't you see the eyes of the small- and medium-sized Greek citizen? But it's more obvious! Can't you see what's going on out there? Are we the "spooked" who see conspiracy theories everywhere? We have another picture, unless we're "sprayed" and see another picture, you guys! All right, what do we do now? We see another picture outside and we get other messages. Is it not the case that Greece is a breath of another economic Armageddon? And that's our theory? Is it possible on this day, today, that the country will close for the second time in world history, to vote for this bill? For God's sake! I really don't understand! And at least it's disgusting to say that you're doing it to make it easier for citizens. There are no such things as that, Mr. Rapporteur! There can't be any sound of that! Wrap it differently, say something else! Amid COVID, shame and mockery! And now we go to the bill and government priorities. What, then, is the government's priority in the midst of pandemic, while society boils, while business closes and when the armies of the unemployed are growing? I'll tell you what your priority is. It is one: the protection of creditors - and they themselves have admitted it to the committee - in every way. It's unbelievable what you're doing, giving one more lifesaving to the banks. It's inconceivable! You are so tired of meeting the demands of the banks that nothing stops you! You should be stopped by the recession, unemployment, the pandemic, but nothing stops you, you don't understand anything and you go unsuccessful. Clearly legislate on legislative criteria, everything for the needs of the banks. Now we are going to the first residence and the 'fair trial' you call, because here you invoke 'fair trial'. What is the 'fair trial' that you call for? You have targeted the first residence of the Greek citizen, take his home and make him a tenant. And you have the courage to tell the Greeks that they should thank you from above for exempting them from this time-consuming process. That's what you tell the Greeks today! Afterwards, then, citizens' massive bankruptcies, it is time for the mass liquidation of the cases of the indebted households. And it really lacks political seriousness the argument that we are going to a 'fair trial'. It's funny that you're talking about "just trial", speeding up justice and decongestion of the courts. Is the mass liquidation of these cases "fair trial" in any way? What kind of a fair trial is that? Each case is also a story of a poor man who has filed papers, spent money, gave his soul and asks for a "fair trial". It is not his fault if the justice system is such, it is sick, which is provided for twenty-five and thirty years! It is not, therefore, a "just trial" to get over with, that is to say, a maniac with the households. These cases aren't simple, I'm not going to the CPI to get a piece of paper and finish. These are life's affairs, they're homes, dreams and hopes! So we cannot talk about 'a fair trial'. We are talking about highly indebted households and Greek citizens who have appealed to justice, because that was their solution to save their home. They wanted to go to justice to save their home and want to be tried, trial done, as predicted and not a fast track. You know, here's a difference. We're talking about trustworthy debtors. You're picking side. We choose the trustworthy debtors, which is the majority of them, as the President of the Banking Federation confirmed the day before yesterday. However, there is also a 10% malpractice, who are, yes, mocking. But for the sake of them, is everyone gonna pay for it? You're going to a horizontal smack on the "cut head"? That's not how it works! Why? Because I told you, in each of these cases, you might see cases, paper, work volume. But every one of these cases is a bitter story, it's a little or a long path in a man's life, it's a small or large human drama and you need to understand it. You cannot level them all and indirectly remove the procedures, the judicial authorities and the deadlines. That's what you're doing! You say these cases have been overdue. We agree! There's no man who doesn't agree to that. We say so, too. Is it possible to have a case from 2010, 2011, 2012 and to be tried in 2030 or 2035? For God's sake! But here, not to say that we are throwing everything at you, I would like to say that they are responsible too! I don't know what SYRIZA will do today, whether or not he will vote, but SYRIZA was preparing it. But he didn't even get to do that, just as he didn't get to do anything. It wasn't enough four and a half years. I guess you'd like a 30-year-old to finish something. You were slow. You didn't have time! And that's what I'm saying, so you don't think we're throwing everything at you. They were preparing it, and you're completing it. The state's always in it. That's why you're the same! But that's why we're telling you you're the same. Nothing's changed! Minister, nothing really changed. The flag's changed from pink to blue, and that's it! Politics are the same, it is the same! But you're giving the same chief an account. Who's the chief? Europe, the troika, the institutions, the comitology! That's what you're doing! These are not your initiatives. Because if they were your own initiatives, you would not say that we need to regain our lost international credibility and that Europe, the troika, is waiting to do what it has asked us to do. So you don't legislate Greek, but "Troikan"! That's the problem. Do what the gentlemen do! Nothing's changed! But this is not the case, Minister, it is not the citizen's fault. If Greek justice was really dismantled by the state and the governments, so that they accumulate cases for thirty-five years later, it is not my fault. What am I supposed to do? Where's the civilian going? He's got a way, justice! There's no other way! What am I supposed to do? Where am I supposed to find my point, guys? The Greek citizen has been inside me at the moment and says "Where can I find my right?", "Where should I go?", "What should I do?". May I say thank you, Mr. Rapporteur? Let me say thank you. Good! Is it really a 'fair trial' to force the citizen to re-trialise - I will have to go into technical details now - an application on the platform? Again, man! Is it a 'fair trial' to oblige him to produce supporting documents that is now extremely difficult to find? Even TAXISNET itself - listen a little! - he doesn't have the records all those years ago that you're asking him to find. In some cases he doesn't have them. Where does the man get these? We've been talking about files that are since they got their original loan, i.e. years ago. And the tragic thing is that you're bringing all this in the middle of a pandemic. I think you'd politically go through the bill. But, Minister, you had to put a brake on it. morally, politically and by listening to society, you should bring it in two, three months. Would it change something? You bring it into the pandemic and into the padlocks. We can't talk today about padlocks - we're all going to throw it in the psychopharmaceuticals, people are going to be closed again! - and we legislate that way! It can't be today, on this day! It can't be done! It really can't be! And I go further, because time starts and pushes. You do not think that your objective with this bill is the mass rejection of applications. That's the target! That's the goal of the banks and the carpet in the banks. You set it up. You establish complex procedures, you put obstacles, obligations and stumbling and trap the citizen in fasttrack procedures, forward cliff and back stream! And what about it? What happens now? Either the application will be rejected, because it has not been able to do what you have to do, or you are preparing the arsenal of the banks to reject applications, because of not doing so. It's one of the two. You baptize all debtors as strategic malpractices to get the excuse ready. And here's our difference, as I told you before. We see frightened Greek citizens who want to save their home while you see poor payers. This is the different viewpoint with which we and you are seeing this particular problem! And you know well that poor payers don't exceed 10%. However, all that is cutting you is - something you say and admit in here - that the country, as you say, recovers international credibility. Where? To the troika! With what you are doing you will indeed be trustworthy in the troika, Minister! You will recover your credibility in the troika, but you will be unreliable to the Greeks! Select on which side of the story you want to be! Reliable to the Greeks or the Troikas? There's nothing else. And I come to a very brief comment on justice, in which you say that of course you do not intervene, and that you do not interfere with the training of the surviving judges at their school. No, there is no line, there is no tendency to reject these requests as soon as possible! Tell us something else. What can peacekeepers do? I asked them peacekeepers. How many more do you want? How many to hire to run these issues? This is where you oblige the peacekeepers to stand trial for these cases. We're talking about over forty thousand cases! Unbelievable. They do not all, I repeat, refer to a 'fair trial', but to a mass rejection of applications, just to get this over with. It can't be done. And why, really, don't you show the same sensitivity in other cases? Fast track and other cases. Why not, let's say, in a civil action against the public? And put a fast track there to compensate the poor guy he's waiting for. Why don't you do it in a pension application, for example, fast tracking process for man to get his pension. Only in the homes? Aren't the pacifist courts imposed on these cases? Have they only been charged by the houses? Put those in there too, I'll say, there's a sense, and I understand it. Let me now - and I shall end, Mr President, very briefly - at the Otta. Now listen to a sample of how sloppy, sloppy and handy you are legislating. You bring an interpretative article today - for people to understand what I'm saying - in the bill, you are rushing to ball the gave you did a few days ago with the discharge of the abusers in the OTAs. It was the Kaklamani amendment - and it did not close a month from voting on this amendment - which relieved all local government officials. And now you are either legislating or not too much on criminal and disciplinary discharge. You did this and you come today to clarify this and save it somehow. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And of course - and I'll close with it - and here your journalists couldn't stay out. It's not my fault, the media will tell the press. "Let the reporters be my colleagues twenty-seven years in badges. For one part, people go into difficult conditions." I'm talking about the press and the funds and the heads. You continue your favourable attitude to the media and give legal privileges and exemptions. Here's what they're doing. Why are you setting time definitions in compensation for moral harm to what was justified by the court following an appeal against the newspaper? Say that for me or Mr. Mylonakis writes something in this newspaper. He goes to justice and justifies him and you give the right for a year and a half, eighteen months, to go back, not to pay that instrument. What for? Why is there provision for a self-righteous end after eighteen months in the forced confiscation submitted? Is it possible to claim that freedom of the press is above, is it superior to the right of judicial protection and fair trial? And we are not only talking about this, the Scientific Office of the House says so in its report on the bill you submitted yesterday. And I close, saying your bill doesn't promote, Minister, fair trial. It is a brake for fair trial. The people's confidence is shaken once again against justice. Think of what harm you will cause, how the ordinary Greek citizen will see the courts, the judges and the justice after this troop that will suffer. Think. And what proves once again - and I am closing with that, Mr President, because it is a permanent position of the Greek Solution - is the need to establish a constitutional court in our country. The constitutional court would best resolve any ambiguities, uncertainties, conflicts, any unconstitutional issues that arose. The constitutional court would strengthen legal certainty and act as the rule of law. It is something that our party has as a basic faith. I close, saying it's time, Minister, to choose on which side of the story you will be, the Greeks or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Please beg the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mrs Adamopoulou Angeliki to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the second bill of the fifth memorandum is being discussed in plenary today. Expectedly, it comes as an implementing annex, we would say, of the recently adopted Banking Code, a grid of provisions that moves into the same logic, the same philosophy and the same philosophical approach as the previous draft law, the bankruptcy code. So, like the new bankruptcy rules, they are being directed, in fact, misleadingly, as provisions that provide a second chance, so this bill bears the mark 'accelerating pending cases of the Katseli Act and of the European Convention of Human Rights', when what we ultimately observe is that in fact this bill is being circumvented by many fundamental principles of the Constitution, political trial, many foundations of our legal culture and, of course, the basic principles of the European Convention on Human Rights. Minister, the only thing is that the Ministry and the government had many available alternatives. I am thinking of the counter-proposals which have been presented in detail and on several occasions during the public consultation and during the hearing of the bodies. These are proposals which have proved far more effective in relation to the government's acrobatic medals and, of course, much more modest in terms of the affected rights of the parties themselves. So under conditions of political normality and government seriousness, and I say this, because if we were talking about a government's seriousness, which wants to listen to the will of the citizens, as expressed in the public consultation, then the counter-proposals of all these bodies and the parties involved, should be the subject of today's debate and today's vote. This is because these proposals meet all the requirements of the principle of proportionality, the principle of subsidiarity, first of all, as regards the aim of the legislature which is to speed up the administration of justice, but also to satisfy the requirements of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but also meet the need, in relation to the measures taken by the Government, without at the same time undermining the foundations of our legal arsenal, our legal culture, without even being so unilateral and so unequivocally and unequivocally affected by the rights and positions of the debtor. Finally, it seemed that the Ministry, the government, is not moved but is deaf to the reactions and fair demands of the borrowers, clearly taking a place at the side of the banks, the funds, because, first of all, all the'reds' debtors are implying that they are regarded as strategic malpractices, who are deceiving innocent and honest banks, these banks which you think should be blooded permanently with public money, should be recapitalised by the Greek taxpayer with public money, without even the public having the slightest participation, to be a shareholder in the administration and strategic choices of banks. I would also like to inform the citizens who are listening to us, but also you, Minister, if you are not aware of this, that the Greek taxpayer from 2008 to 2015 has supported the banks with EUR 106 billion and it is expected that by 2023 citizens will have given more than EUR 120 billion, only to rescue the banks, which are currently targeting over 80% of the small and medium-sized enterprises' real estates and homes of about six hundred thousand families. This is for this reason the Government of New Democracy, on the one hand, on all the crucial issues of today's period, such as pandemic, to deal with the issues of relics and an amateur cursory, and on the other hand, on issues such as red loans, to provide internal enemies and to identify with banking interests. In this respect you are diligent and conscientious. The bill was even advertised for a above-mentioned reason, the so-called broad consultation and consensus of stakeholders and bodies. It seems to me that you broadly mean the satisfaction of the banks. To be clear, then, I shall convey the statements to the hearing of all those who have spoken. So I say to you that in your proposals for the Katseli Act, the findings are generally common and are as follows: The Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations of Greece declared the following: "Objection and deprivation of citizens' right to first residence". That's what lawyers say. "We are basically opposed to the amendments, as in 2022 a series of mass auctions will be closed from residential houses that were today in the protection of the Katseli law. Secondly, the anti-constitutional and highly problematic provision which considers that if registrations and redefinitions were not made on the platforms, the application will be considered to be never exercised. The redefinition had to be made home and in the face of a pandemic and with L.4336/2015 and not with the responsibility of the borrower. Where the State has to ensure the interests of individuals or the State itself lets justice go at turtle rate. But where he wants to raise his first home and get back to auction homes, he speeds up the procedures. In addition, the requirement to produce documents with a penalty of inadmissibility of the application must be withdrawn immediately because it is destructive for both the borrower and the lawyer.’ They told you that everything went back, insurance, public, ECA and only the banks went ahead, as if this was the most important and only problem that Greek society has today, namely that banks should be paid. What the Union of Consumers and Demonstrators said: "The cases were unable to be cleared within three years because only the Athens Peace Court had the appropriate logistics infrastructure and the proper staff to cope with. The timetables are particularly suffocating. In addition, there is no compliance with the principle of fair trial and the deadline for appeal from two years to six months is limited. In fact, at first you had predicted the quarter. And six months after the reactions. Article should be amended in order to be considered a constitutional.’; The Union of Consumers and Loaners continues: "There is absolutely no reason to evade the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure for these cases. This will create two speed parties. So we consider this to be procedural and constitutionally unacceptable. Furthermore, there is no proportionate application of the regular procedure and, at the same time, there is a limited period of time for the submission of proposals from the hundred days in the sixty days. It is incomprehensible for such cases, as all the actors and the Bank of Greece and the courts know that these cases are particularly detailed. The hundred days should therefore also apply here.’ What about revocation of the provisional order? Someone who has applied since 2012 awaits a trial, for which no responsibility lies with him because he is called upon to pay for the lack of infrastructure, the lack of judges, this man is considered a strategic mispaid man. THE EMCDDA and the Pan-Hellenic Consumer Association Federation say: "Only 10% to 15% are strategic bad payers." In the question I personally asked if these two unions were invited to a consultation, the answer was: 'No, we were not invited to consultations'. The bill is a sad setback for our legal culture. It is possible, while we are discussing lockdown in Athens, to talk about suffocating deadlines! It is rather impossible to observe everything that needs to be done in this bill. The Marios Ice, in fact, in his earlier opinion, states that any manifestation of the constitutionality of the provisions presupposes that all the peace courts in the country will be sufficiently staffed. What did GSEW, the General Confederation of Professional Crafters of Greece, say? He said: “Why does the citizen have to seek tax documents three years after receiving the first loan? What's he doing? In order to establish the claim of the banks on credits and to reject the application. They deliberately stated when they would recommend the Ecumenical Patriarch to sanctified the banks. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors: "With subordinated pacifism there is no way that this process can proceed as well as the bankruptcy proceedings. The abolition of orality shall test the limits of the constitutional principle of the publicity of the proceedings.’. He proposed that the deadline for the redefinition should be increased from forty-five days to sixty days, that the deadline for submitting proposals from sixty days to a hundred days and that the parties should be exempted from paying the wrong appeal. Even the chairman of the Committee on the Management of Non-performing Loans of the Greek Banking Union said we have a shift in the burden of proof to the borrower whose position on the substance would deteriorate in this case in a way which is procedurally and constitutionally unacceptable. He continued: "I don't think it makes sense when we have a binary, like the bank, to ask the borrower and his proxy lawyer to report what the first year of withdrawal is. The year in which the first loan obligation is committed shall be something that is inconsistent with both logic and basic procedural provisions.’; This is how your Ministry perceives broad consensus, with so many and extreme disagreements, other than banks. I'm continuing with some articles. Let's go to article 40. What the government owes us in plenary and in citizens is to tell us who the prosecutor is ultimately the public prosecutor you're taking care of him, so that we can legislate on his secondment abroad in such circumstances, when, according to Mr Sevastides, he himself mentioned by posting him on social media that in June 2020 he prepared this regulation and requested it in two months' time, in the summer, and his request was accepted by the Minister. We believe, Minister, that this is where you have been publicly exposed. For the financial prosecutor and the prosecutor of corruption offences referred to in Article 65, we are associated with the association of judges and prosecutors who says: "It is an irregularity in our legal system and it is imperative that it be abolished. The choice of these prosecutors is not based on any legal specialisation in this area, which is not characterised by legal difficulties or complexity. The need for any prosecuting officer to assist in interrogating and collecting the evidence shall be given as well as possible.’; Now in relation to your reply, Minister, on what problems we have raised concerning the violation of fundamental principles of the political trial, such as the principle of equality of the parties, the principle of fair trial, the principle of proportionality, the principle of the orality of the procedure by observing the evidence through witnesses, the abolition by law of the validity of judgments such as the retrospective withdrawal of the provisional order granted if all of these custodial procedural deadlines are not complied with, which is, in any event, a direct interference by the legislator in the work of the judicial officer. Your answer is to invoke the opinion of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Region, which I told you was suffering from legal deficiencies and which, indirectly but clearly, is the legalisation of the circumvention of these fundamental principles of the political trial, the legalisation of the procedural strangulation of the debtor and the legalisation of the mass arrest of the claims made by thousands of debtors who will lose their homes as well. In fact, you said that we were referring to procedural rights and that the essentials are not being violated. It's not like that. Where such custodial procedural time-limits are provided and where the debtor cannot be procedurally protected, the exercise of his essential right shall be effectively abolished. Therefore, as you have said, it was not our position or our interpretations. We have simply put forward legal arguments which have not been answered in concrete terms. It is a matter of law that the government in question is legislating. According to this, it interprets the return of our legal culture, as was rightly described by this bill, which you bring with it, in order to follow the bankruptcy code, with a view to remaining faithful to your international commitments to the institutions, as the previous government, the government of SYRIZA, has committed itself to the institutions. So the only attitude that we are going to take against such irresponsible, against such a punishing and dangerous bill, is to vote against it. And we call on all my fellow Members, who are judged by the common good and not by the orders of the Memorandum of Understanding, the interests of the banks and the predatory positions of the banks, to vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u29	And I thank you, Mr. Adamopoulou. Before entering the list of speakers, I have to tell you that from the calculation we have made, in view of the number of Members who have declared themselves to speak, the Members of Parliament and the time that will be necessary, it is estimated that we will still be around nine and ten hours. I would say this in order not to protest against the next Members: we should do the speech six minutes without meaning that they will not speak seven minutes, but simply not to break the seven-minute period. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to reduce speaking time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u30	The House agreed. With the consent of the House, it is accepted. Mr Ploris has the floor, who is the first speaker on the list. He will limit his time to six minutes, although he usually speaks less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we are really at a critical turning point, and we must talk to our citizens that we have a critical period of time with the measures which will be announced, the tightening up of these measures, so that we can, as we remain in the countries with the least problem compared to all the countries of the European Union, remain at this level and with the efforts that have been made so far, because we have also referred to the increase in the SYRIZA beds, where, for days, we have waited for the ICM beds and Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, when there was no COVID and today we are debating that we are constantly putting beds in the system so that we can deal with it, as well as with the financial support for the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone listened to the opposition here, they would think that we are talking about another bill. We come and say, let's see how each side faces the borrower. You're dealing with the borrower as someone who's come without the guarantees of the Katseli Law and has entered the law of Katseli. And, in fact, you say: "He's settled with dates until '25 in '30 and so try to have it in this process." We're dealing with it differently. We say that within these people who have taken provisional orders there are people who want to solve their problem, who knows he's going to court and has the evidence to prove what he needs. And this man doesn't want to be a felony and exposed ten and fifteen years and then a judge come and judge against him. He now wants to come with all the evidence to deal with the problem. So having any objection to quick trial is something that is contrary to legal logic, where the person making an appeal wants to be tried quickly, but also to reason. We're going to the objections you raised. An objection shall be raised as to whether the oral proceedings are infringed. SYRIZA can't put that on. Because SYRIZA has brought the Code of Civil Procedure where the main instrument of regular procedure is done by the same procedure. And it has not been decided by anyone that there is a matter of constitutionality. And jury statements can be given instead of witnessing. And yes, and if the court judges that she must have a witness, she must have a witness. To object, as the JRC had, to the other parties that existed since the beginning of the procedure that we should never enter into procedures that do not provide for witnesses, I could say your remark is correct. But when you have opened up the procedure for the tactics, that is, for the crown of litigation in Civil Law, do you think that this is a matter of constitutionality if this is the case? So he's not standing. Even the time, which you mentioned, in the hundred days that you say the suition to the opponent can be done in the seventy days. So, it's been seventy days. He says if there's enough time to gather the evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about people who have basically been ordered, provisional order or who have been refused the provisional order, suspension. But once they went to court, the files are ready. All the evidence was packed up. They went to a judge. And one judge assessed that the conditions are met or that the conditions are not met. And they have a margin at the moment, if we also have the sixty days margin we are talking about which is to put forward the proposals, to concentrate on the fact that the other is actually the product of an electronic procedure. And do you disagree with the lifting of tax secrets? Shouldn't we see what's wrong with him? Does it bother you to see three years ago what the financial situation was when he went to get loans? One who is a borrower of sincerity, has nothing to fear of it and, on the contrary, ensures it because it produces it and in this way solves its problem once and for all. Someone else who didn't want to pay possibly is bothering him with the process. Let's go to a second part, which you've raised. You mentioned the part in relation to the financial prosecution as it formed. And I have to say I hear the position of Mera25. I don't understand as a lawman because there's got to be special prosecutor bodies. We could stay in the normal structure that exists. However, once this had been chosen, it is very right that the Ministry comes and has a body that is of four people, there is no all-power of one man. They have four alternates. They've got assistants. More importantly, it is the oldest in the department that falls under the structure, which exists in the prosecutor's office. And because a colleague flew here, you, Mr. Polakis, and you said, with reference to who wants and who does not want, and if you refer to Mrs. Toulouse, and you go: 'Mr. Samaras wants to be abolished', I would like to remind you of something: Mr. Samaras's case has been filed, so it is not controlled. On the contrary, files about you have come from the corruption prosecutor here. So if anyone is being controlled right now, he's not Mr. Samaras. These are, therefore, provisions which come and fully reflect the European framework as it works. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Last one. It is a very important provision that at last there is a felony, with the amendments which come, the murder and torture of animals. It's been an effort since '12. The framework was up to six months later, ladies and gentlemen, it was a shame. It's time to have a felony because it's not possible to see these scenes. The bill is moving in the right direction and we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u33	I'll give you one minute to tell you what the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u34	I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u35	But there's no staff here. But say it, because it has not expelled you of any form.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u36	How isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u37	Unless it altered your statement content. That's all, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u38	Listen to me, Mr. President. In his agonizing attempt to cover the enormous cynicism of the New Democracy, which has political content, namely the fact that at the time the public prosecutors of economic crime, which I controlled by SIEMENS, were disturbing, I built the prosecutors of corruption. Now that Mrs Toulupaki is bothering her because she is looking for 'NOVARTIS', she is deleting her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u39	That's not personal. You'll tell them in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u40	And he dares and Mr. Plearis says...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u41	You'll tell them in your speech. It's not personal, that, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u42	...that files have come for me. Yes, Mr Ployer, it has come - and I challenge you directly - to sue the CEDEFOP gang by a copy of the procedure you have done for 'NOVARTIS' that a service has been set up that has been fired on them and has 30 cases open in court.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u43	Yeah, all right. Justice will decide about them. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u44	No, no, because this is where they say we criminals are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u45	Tell them in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u46	I didn't say you were a criminal, I said you weren't in control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u47	No, wait a minute, Mr. Plori, you will dip the tongue deep into your mind and then you will speak. I challenge you directly, find thirty Members of the New Democracy and set up a pre-examination and special court for me and Blonde on the subject of CEDEFOP. If you have the legs, do it. I challenge you directly. Let's see who's looking to hide. Do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u48	Don't yell, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u49	What if I yell? You've heard nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Polakis, this isn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u51	How isn't it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u52	In your speech, you will say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u53	Does Floris say they've come from the corruption attorney for me? Half New Democracy has her hands on honey? But are we talking now? What are you talking about, are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u54	Come on, Mr. Polakis, you're done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u55	I'll speak soon, Minister. I give you a margin to withdraw Rule 52 until I speak. Withdraw until I speak. This is where you'll be humiliated as long as it doesn't go. Withdraw it until I talk, because I found out who's behind with evidence, and it's embarrassing to do that thing. It's a disgrace! I give you twelve speakers to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u56	Mrs Christidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to debate in plenary a bill of 30% increased in relation to what was in the consultation. Once again repeat your constant tactics, the one in secret, with the help of silence from friendly media, so that very few people really understand government regulations, only when it is too late to react. And this time your first goal is to serve the banks against protecting their first residence. In the first part of the bill, you are attempting a new violent intervention in the n. 869/2010, i.e. the Katseli Act, to the detriment of borrowers, following the bankruptcy code that you voted for last week and speed up pending proceedings. Remove the orality of the procedure - if possible! - by preventing the judge from forming a personal image and being able to take into account the true situation of the borrower, you are cutting the appeal procedure, you are obliging borrowers to redefinite the applications exclusively at their own expense and you are asking them to collect information which is in the DUs and banks within a very short period of time. In short, you do everything possible to ensure that borrowers lose their assets as soon as possible. And all of this at a time of pandemic where unemployment is hovering, underemployment has been launched and the economy is sinking into recession. Instead, in this difficult period of time to support those who have no resources, those who see their incomes falling, you do exactly the opposite. Find people on the edge of the cliff and instead of their help hand you give the final push. But that is not your only concern, that is to say, the snatching of the property of the many in favour of the profitability of the few. Be careful to take all those steps it takes to protect the outbreaks of corruption in the country. You seek, before the end of its term of office, to abolish the current prosecutor's corruption, a prosecutor appointed head of the fight against corruption twice at the choice of the Supreme Judicial Council. Let us remember that the prosecution of corruption was founded in 2011 and was assigned in 2013 to the Government of Samaras - Venizelos. At that time, the two financial prosecutors, those conducting the "SIEMENS" cases and the Lagard case, were abolished and were obviously annoying about the then government. You were disturbed by the financial prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because they were approaching to revealing certain interests. So you abolished them and made an attorney for corruption. You are disturbed by the prosecution of corruption, because she too, in doing her job, is investigating in turn specific interests and that is why you are abolishing it too. In addition, the Minister of Government, who is investigating the 'NOVARTIS' case, has said publicly that the Ms. Prosecutor who investigates him must go to prison for many years. Does that follow, ladies and gentlemen, the distinction of powers? Or is it legitimate and is this also in line with the distinction of functions, a minister to visit the President of the Council of State only a few days before a matter relating to his ministry is dealt with? I'm asking a question for you to tell us. We believe that you are benefiting from justice. You undermine its authority and protect, without pretext, scandalously specific entrepreneurs. You are, in fact, blocking retroactive criminal prosecutions for smuggling and tax evasion, in accordance with Article 32, until the administrative act is finalised, the imposition of sanctions or the irreversible decision of the administrative court in question. Because smugglers and tax-raisers are allowed to have a time-consuming comfort and falsification. Loaners are not allowed. The President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors also pointed this out to you, speaking in the committee. With regard to the amendment tabled a moment ago for the aid from the Ministry of Culture, this aid concerns owners of premises and producers. Nothing for artists. For the art workers, nothing. Only if a contract had already been concluded must the employer keep and maintain jobs. A little shame. And what do you answer all this? Nothing essential. You are not interested in responding even in advance, it is enough for you to be applauded by the Greek Banking Union and secretly by those who move in the semi. Those who take advantage of the arrangements you bring to the detriment of the rest that these other people are right to feel not just unprotected but targeted at what you do all these months. Eight months we ask why the National Health System has not been strengthened, why does it sound again that we are going to take strict measures and ban and lockdown? Why are you closing the world back into his homes and destroying the Greek economy? Why can't he withstand the system that you used so much over the past period? What for? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With what you have been doing all these months, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are cultivating anger, you are multiplying the deadlocks. You sincerely believe that the Internet trolls you pay are enough to cover up the arrogant way you govern. You think that coronary masks can hide this political arrogance. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the masks - and above all, your political masks - have fallen long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Kegeroglu, from the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement from 22 January to today warned and urged measures to prevent, has tabled a draft, but also individual proposals to deal with the pandemic, but also the economic and social consequences. We have urged solutions and prevention measures to prevent an uncontrolled second wave, with substantial support for businesses and professionals, producers and weak ones, and at the same time to adopt the scientists' recommendations. With the right of this responsible attitude to the proposals, criticism and control of the government, we are telling you very clearly today: you have failed and failed. You failed to take advantage of the experience from the first wave of pandemic and society, all people, are in new danger. You did not strengthen, as you could and we proposed, the National Health System and all health units. Applause for health workers, but today you are bringing another postponement for their integration into heavy and unhealthy. You did not pay due attention to our proposals for over-concentration in public transport and in schools. You left the units of the elderly in their luck. Unfortunately, even now that the pandemic has escaped, Mr. Mitsotakis continues the same violin. On Saturday, and not even today, announced by Catholic lockdown, he found not a single word of self-criticism, he did not have the courage to write a word of self-criticism for himself and his government. It does not understand or does not want to understand that the rams of the negligence of the citizens, to which it has been referred, are not to blame, but are mainly to blame for the cracks of government indifference, which have produced relaxation and reassurance. Citizens must, of course, do everything they can to protect public health, their own health and the health of their families. Not only did he say nothing again about strengthening the ESS, dealing with the crowding of public transport and the schools, but he has recently recruited the first-class ministers, since the secondary ministers have failed, as Mr Gerapititis has said, to revolve the black propaganda, which has entered the communication staff as a weapon, instead of the gray one that failed. It is dissatisfied with your courage, Mr. Gerapetritis, to compare the huge work of PASOK in health in Postpopulation with the caricature of Government Mitsotakis. Why are you on your way, Minister? For the simple extensions of previous government contractors? For your inability to create an ICU, but especially for the delay in serving the private-private ICUs, even the House? For the lack of funding for the RIS and for the exceptional expenditure extensions of hospitals and hospitals, which have been continuing since 2015? You apologise to the Greek people for your inertia and purpose, which faces problems every day. Businesses and employees. Brutsis amendment abolishes, for seasonal workers, the thirteenth and fourteenth wages to the extent that they are to be taken into account. Support measures are fragmentary and weak and are limited to hotel workers, who operate permanently throughout the year, which are also a minority. There is no support measure for seasonal workers in the focus. Workers do not benefit from regulation in the vast majority of other tourist activities, tour operators, tourist agencies, tourist buses, seasonal workers at airports, car rental, small and very small businesses in the tourist regions. Three hundred and thirty thousand workers in the focus are not just in the government's target, but in the executive excerpt. Once again, the government's measures to support the eighty thousand entrepreneurs and thirty-three thousand workers in this area do not work. The worst thing, however, is that the New Democracy, in fact, leaves them in their luck for the second time in the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u60	Come to the bill, Mr. Comrade, because it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u61	The Change Movement proposes targeted and substantial measures and calls for their adoption. A specific programme of 1 billion in support of the focus sector and a refund of only 50% of the repayable advance for all enterprises. Fee 100% of workers' insurance contributions for six months. Modify the decision on “take away”, which causes unfair competition, as it provides for a different function depending on the category. Revenue subsidy of 40% from the State for a semester. Transfer of all liabilities to the public, insurance funds and banks, at least until 30 April 2021. Reduction of municipal fees and other measures. Also suspension of first home auctions. And therefore, instead of suspending first home auctions, the government rules are in place to speed up auctions in the pandemic, in the suffering that citizens experience, in this critical situation. Mercy! Put a transitional provision that all these provisions will begin to work after we have finished with the pandemic. All of us unite against the pandemic now! It's unacceptable what you're doing. In addition - and I conclude - the Change Movement has tabled amendments, which will be mentioned, both to restore the injustice of judges and to guarantee the justice, to claim German allowances, but also to make a reference to the application of the Court of Auditors' ruling, which equates the conditions for the retirement of men and women who had a minor child in 2010. The recent judgment is, essentially, in the implementation of a judgment of the European Court of Justice and while Law 3865 solved the issue for the period from 1-1 to 2011, there was a legislative gap before 2011. We therefore call on you to also adopt these amendments that we have tabled and of course to suspend the procedures for auctioning. Finally, we call on you to take back the arrangement that the Ministry of Interior was supposed to have brought in to resolve a matter that intergrouply, New Democracy and SYRIZA, you have brought to rinse large cases of corruption. Because the amendment brought by the Ministry of Interior does not solve the problem for those who are unfairly suffering, for the people of self-government who are unduly suffering, but try to legalise the laundry for large cases of corruption, take it back. The Scientific Council is a catapult. And here to place all parties directly, to tell us what they want to cover, what cases? The fat or the weak? If it is for the weak, that the Minister should come, as we called upon him, to discuss a real arrangement that will protect the people who are unjustly suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Georgios Kotonias from New Democracy will speak after Mr. Kotrias of the Greek Parliamentary Group. Mr. Kotraya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, you know, I really feel that I am doing my duty towards the Greek citizens when I hold bills like today. Because I believe that it fulfils what is, and must be, the purpose and essence of politics, what is conducive to the consciousness of the citizens, that is, to improve the functioning of the state, so that there will eventually be growth, to make progress, but above all to benefit citizens. This draft law speeds up and improves procedures for justice and the whole of the legal world and let me refer to those articles which include such improvements. Article 1 aims at speeding up the pending applications for debt regulation under Law 3869/2010, so that the protection status granted to all who are entitled to it and, on the other hand, lifting the protection of strategic malpractices, who, in order to avoid their obligations towards the State, rushed to be subject to the Katseli Act by extending their jurisdiction until 2032. Articles 2 to 26 provide for the modernisation of the Code of Lawyers, through a series of reforms, which simplify procedures and facilitate the enforcement of the profession, while ensuring the resolution of chronic issues of the industry. I am particularly aware of the following articles: Articles 2 and 3 concerning the specialisation of the conditions for the acquisition of legal status for holders of third countries and the extension of the period of law from six months to twelve months, with a view to more fully qualified future lawyers, who will also receive such financial aid. Articles 7 and 8, which form the framework for the proper conduct of the competition of lawyers. Specifically, it is now laid down that the supervision of the tender is now entrusted by the Ministry of Justice to the Plenary Assembly of the Presidents of the Associations of Greece, which will also be responsible for the proclamation and follow-up of the entire procedure. Articles 12 and 13, aimed at removing bureaucracy in key procedures, as it proposes the adoption of a single pre-confidence note, both proposals and the representation in the regular procedure before the Tribunal, the monopolies and the Multipartite Court of First Instance. At the same time, the authentic signature of the lawyer presenting the draft contracts by the competent lawyers shall be abolished. Articles 15 to 19 now include the profession of lawyer in the new digital age through teleconferencing, resolving chronic operational problems of lawyers' collective bodies, particularly in island areas. Article 33 provides for the suspension of the criminal prosecution of debtors who have not paid insurance contributions where they are regulated and are consistent with the payment of the relevant instalments. Articles 34 and 35 further strengthen the important institution of legal aid to low-income citizens, as well as the institution of mediation, and now define a competent authority to examine the application for legal aid in the cases of Law 4640/19 that are subject to mediation. Article 43 provides for the possibility of posting to the Court of Justice Fund - the FFO - public service officials for the rapid adoption of legal aid payment orders, as is provided for the immediate strengthening of the FFO with the staff required in order to carry out more than thirty-five thousand applications for legal aid pending over the last three years, but also the ongoing studies of judicial buildings. In order to include the legal sector in the new digital age, Article 36, which introduces the teleconferencing conference and the conferences of judges on a permanent basis, and Article 37 providing for support for the functioning of the Integrated Management System for Administrative Courts by adding twenty additional organic positions of the IT industry to the Council of State. Article 38 gives the possibility of setting up working groups for the implementation of projects within the framework of European Union programmes and actions on electronic justice. Article 40 is to cover a legislative gap so far, which concerns the maintenance of the family balance of judges, by means of special arrangements for the employment of spouses, which applies to most of the categories of civil servants. Finally, Articles 46 and 47 once again seek to deal with the question of subsistence of the sector and in particular: With the first, Article 46, provides for the possibility of recruiting additional judicial officers from tenders already carried out, while Article 47 seeks the rational management of the Court of Auditors, since the newly established audit division is currently covered by the existing Vice-Presidents and consultants, creating a problem for the other departments. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill that speeds up and modernises judicial procedures. It helps the hundreds of thousands of households - which have often been mentioned in the Chamber - of L.3869/10, which is locked up until 2032, while harmonising judicial and legal procedures with modern electronic age, at the same time creating modern working conditions for lawyers and judicial officials. It is a bill of modernisation that must benefit from the unanimous support of all the wings of the House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u64	Thank you too, Mr. Kotroya. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today with the Prime Minister's letter. And I will start like this because I heard him a few minutes ago the Prime Minister of the country announcing some measures. Listening to the Prime Minister, I also realized that you proved yourself inadequate, proved unorganized, you are panicked - I saw a Prime Minister panicked - and, therefore, all this together making you dangerous for the country, killing the economy. The Prime Minister has understood that all the measures that the government will take from now on are being taken under organizational planning, so that the Greeks will not die from the coronary. It's a logic - I'd say - an excuse for incompetence. It's a justification for her. But you will die of hunger after the coroner. Because with the measures you're taking, you're killing the economy. With Lockdown, with the closure of the normal life of the place, you are killing the Greek economy. Finish seven hundred thousand jobs from the focus. You're finishing them. And your fellow Members are not speaking to you now, which many of you in here may not even be entrepreneurs. But I'm a businessman, and I know what business means. Business doesn't mean giving 500 euros to five hundred employees of mine as a state and ending the fairy tale. This business has to pay VAT, it has to pay tax, it has to pay special taxes, it has to pay suppliers. It doesn't jira. The problem will, from now on, be passed on to the whole spectrum of the country's economic life. What is surprising is that Merkel just said a week ago 'lockdown across Europe', you also booked Greece. You have such good ears that you only listen to Merkel. You can't hear the help coming from the Greek society. You executed the Greek economy. With Lockdown's decision today, you executed the economy. And when you execute the economy, you will have hungry, you will have unemployed and unemployed Greek citizens. The Prime Minister is apologetic today. In fact, apologizing, frustrated, tired, and above all of the inability of his ministers, who probably do not understand that a man cannot be the authority and responsibility. The ministers of government, especially the finances, especially health, screwed up. I'll prove it along the way. In the apologetic attitude of the Prime Minister, I constantly heard Mr Tsirda invoking his first name: 'Sotiras', 'Sotiras', 'Sotiras'. I'll tell you something very simple. You won't have one with the Saviour either. You and Saviour don't even save yourself. You're on a run. And this escape is due to your inability to take serious measures in the summer, which now come and sit on your inability. If you really wanted us not to disperse the coronary - which is a virus that is really dangerous, like all the viruses - should have all political leaders arrested outside the courtroom along with the director of your party. Because that's where thousands of people conspired. Along with the events that take place. All the events that are taking place should be banned. You would never do that. And you're talking about individual responsibility when you don't have government responsibility, when you uncontrolledly let Constantine and every Constantine march with Pakistani and you don't arrest anyone. And you close the Greek at his house. The Prime Minister himself - today I heard him with my ears - talked about increasing cases in pyramid form. The Prime Minister's right about that. And that is why it says, because Europe has a huge increase, it wants to take a quick step, that is to say to make a closure of normality - lockdown is said in the barbaric dialect - for only one reason: to save lives. May I say that I agree here? I agree. But why not do what other European countries do, ladies and gentlemen? Minister, did you inform the Greek Prime Minister that in Europe the auctions were all suspended? Why don't you do it, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u66	It's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u67	To suspend auctions now. It cannot be invoked by the Prime Minister for Europe, saying that we are taking measures of a European nature, but when the whole of Europe has been suspended, you should bring in a bill for auctioning for a quick process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u68	They did earlier Lockdown.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u69	No, in June the auctions were suspended in Spain. By the time you mentioned it now, I should like to tell you about the suspension of evictions for six months in Ireland, Belgium, Hungary, Spain. There is a protective net in tenants of dwellings, shops in Germany, Spain, Portugal. In the three countries I mentioned, it has been in force since June. I have companies that rent shops, Minister. People, business people rent shops. Where will they pay their rents for six months? They're not treating anything. The Prime Minister will pay a bonus of EUR 500 - it is good and welcome too - but the company is not saved with EUR 500. They're not saved. To be suspended. Inhibition of tax, suspension of VAT. Take specific measures. Let me tell you one more thing, Minister. Do you know that there is a postponement of explorations and real estates in Hungary and Poland for one year? There's a freeze on everything for a year. Do you know that there is a Solidarity Fund for first residence in Italy and cover loans for those most affected? I'm answering this because the Minister caused it. Because the Greek Solution came here to argue and make suggestions. He did not come to make criticism, such as SYRIZA, who forgot that he had been ruling for five and a half years and is now criticising and they are even more polite than the JRC. When you rule, you must have a good opposition. The opposition must be constructive and lead you to the right path. Minister, what you've done is a direct murder of the economy. You have murdered her, not with your current lockdown or the closure of normality, but with the inadequacy of prevention measures. I won't tell about the ITHs we don't have anymore. You say fairy tales in the world. We would have a thousand two hundred in November, December, and we have three hundred, four hundred, five hundred. Nobody knows how many we have. If you ask the Minister of Health, one day he says two hundred, the next day he says three hundred, the next day he says four hundred, the next day he says five hundred. We don't know how many IDs there are. I will also tell you about what gives a special impression to your bill, Minister. He's the one with the smugglers. What a joy with the smugglers you have all the governments. All governments have joy with the smugglers, the intertwined, few-girled and curious types of offending, because justice - he says - is stalling. The complaint by the President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, Mr Sevastides, who read it understands that we have a huge laundry here. The House is a huge washing machine that washes people and washes people, not the ordinary citizen, not the back door, the worker, not the retired, not the unemployed. You guys rinse off. That's the big problem. If it is not seen as a laundry that you made haircuts through the banks on some pedestrians, on some other businessmen, shipowners - ninety million haircuts in the hundred million loan - what can be said? You tell me. So you bring the bill and say that all the outstanding cases are frozen, many of which, Minister, are at risk by way of limitation. They'll be offline. They're going to go out for limitations all the time. That's not governance. This is laundry. You are also fleeing criminals who have damaged the Greek state with hundreds of millions of euros. The bill, therefore, instead of serving the Greek citizen serves the sponsors of political parties, friends, friends. That's the reality. If you want to see her, see her. If you don't want to, don't see her. And that's what bothers me. As you rinseed all mayors with the amendment, as Vassilis Kegeroglu, who is not here, brought in a few days ago. They stole and broke. We've deleted, deleted. It's over. We are bringing an amendment, and we say, 'It's okay. What you stole, you stole." That's not the logic. Then on the same basis, those who owe their banks the money and the end of history. Why don't you do it there? And it's not populism. These are repulsive for Greek citizens. That's why they turn their back on politics. He knows what's going on. The Greek has realised that some of them serve in here. Fortunately, not everyone, Minister. Because you are one of the people I value very much and I have said so publicly too many times. You're one of the most remarkable ministers. We've known each other before. But some in here, they serve friends and they expose everyone else. Why would that happen? Tell me. Of course, we also have the rapid procedures. You are rejoicing, Minister, you and your government, that this is being done quickly. Indeed, since Otto’s time, a bill has been coming for the first time that really speeds up. There's a state that's finally a refreshment state with this bill. But that is what is done to get the houses of the Greeks. Do something good to end bureaucracy in other kinds of issues, to say that there is an ultimate state. It can only be done to speed up the creation of the Greek property of Greek citizens. And I say that, because you legislate for a group of people, like the bankers, who are all joyous. The bankers are glad. And just from that, we should be troubled. I'm talking about the bankrupt. Bankers drink the blood of the Greek people, the blood of the businessman, the blood of the Greek economy. Because they're actually drinking it. We supported them. We gave them billions of euros. But the banks are back on track again. When the bankers rejoice in a bill brought by a government, be vigilant, ladies and gentlemen. When the loan shark is pleased, the worker and the businessman die. Banks operate topics. They don't give loans to businesspeople. They don't give loans to businesses. I'm saying that because if you ask small businesses, they weren't helped. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you know that half the money provided by the European Union will go to your wind turbines and your best friends, to five businessmen? The EUR half billion provided by the European Union will go to 'VOLKSWAGEN' investments. And yesterday the "SCAI", Minister, - how liars can be - and the Prime Minister, too, said: "VOLKSWAGEN" investment. And I take my Uncle Stelios in the village and he says, "You see, the car industry will invest in Greece." The poor did not know that VOLKSWAGEN has a subsidiary that makes wind turbines and has two jobs. He thought his kid was going to get a job. Who are you kidding? You're going to make the Astypalea windmill. What a green island you're telling us. They'll fly ten electric cars - and well - the Germans - that's the way the Germans always do - and they'll confiscate the region. These are not investments. I will also say something very simple: Minister, when you remove the right from someone to go apologize, to go to the bank and to speak as a beekeeper, to plead, to argue, because you must not take the loan away from him, to him, to deny him the right to beekeeping. And this is an insult to the personality, to the dignity, to the humanity of a state that does not respect the right of a accused, apologies - as you say - to apologise. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In other words - sincerely, I say this - you are really leveling up - I say this straight away - the entire Greek fountain. Because the home is sacred to the Greeks. In closing, Minister - before I go to the next theme - I want to ask you: Steve McCann? You don't know him. You don't have to. He's the best photographer in the world. Worldwide, he's the most famous. It's a portrait photographer, though. He's making portraits. Today, with this bill you became better than Steve McCann. Because it's photographic. Articles 32, 40, 60, 65, 45, 49 are photographs, portraits to businessmen. You're good photographers, though. Check out these articles. Because if you look under the articles, you will see some interests in particular that I mentioned earlier, but you probably didn't hear them. And I say it with a lot of sympathy to your face. So let's go to the mistakes and misfortune we have, friends and friends, as a state, in relation to the coronary. I'll tell the Prime Minister something with a lot of sympathy. I cannot want to hear the Prime Minister yesterday morning and have the Minister of Health come to me to "AND1" and empty the Prime Minister. To what government is these things serious, to announce a proclamation by the Prime Minister of the country and the Minister of Health comes out last day and empty the Prime Minister by announcing what the Prime Minister will say? It's never happened before. Is that a government? Is that how you rule the country? The next day, the Prime Minister had to take his head off. I don't know why the Minister did it. And I don't care at all. This, however, shows an amateur mood to deal with serious issues such as coronary. And the next one - and I say this again with sympathy to the New Democracy, as to the other parties - when Mr Tsipras began to swear the Greek people about the Prespes and the rallying and mocking, the beginning of his end had begun. Now the prime Prime Minister starts talking about fakes for those who react to the measures taken by the government. When the Prime Minister of a country exalts, slanders, slanders a people, the people that governs - little or a large part of it doesn't matter - then there is a problem of an incompetence of leadership with the people who are ruling. That's what the Prime Minister has to understand. The Greek people must not conspire him, you must not swear him, you must not call him "inhabited" because he reacts to your anti-grass measures, the measures that kill the economy. That is why the Greeks are reacting, because the government is not convinced that what it says means. I'll give you an example. You sent the police to a rally held at the White Tower - the New Democracy did it - for the lockdown. People disagreed on the closure of normality. I'll call it Greek. So you've arrested people. And you did well. There's a law, you'll tell me. Well done, you've arrested people. You cut fines. You did well as a state, because there is a law. But you did not go to the Court of Appeal - I repeat - and to other gatherings that have been made - at times in Athens. This is unfair to Greek citizens. Here opposite the Constitution was Constantine - the Antarctic One - and told the Prime Minister to arrest him and kick him out of Greece. Constantine wasn't arrested. Nobody said anything about him. I mean, when you punish only the Greek and leave all the others, ideologically similar or, if you want, other guys, various groups of solidaritys to do whatever they want, you have a matter. People don't believe you. I saw yesterday at "SCAI", the channel, Mr. Minister, the channel my friend Thanos, because that's where you go often, every day you're there, you and Adonis and the rest, "Have New Democracy" the channel, Mrs. Cosoni from America. Three attendants without an interview mask. When it's in Greece, in Greece, all masks. When we go out to America, Yuk mascara. Why? How will he become convincing after the journalist, your partner? The new Republic's partners are, after all, these journalists of the 'SCAI'. What can we do now? The truth is. Every now and then I see a little SYRIZA. I can see a change movement. There's no other party after that. In 'SCAI' there is no other party. There isn't! The New Democracy. Four New Democracy, one SYRIZA. We see the next day, four New Democracy, one PASOK. We see the next day, four New Democracy, one 'Pothide'. This is SKAI. How, then, will the argument of the necessity to wear masks be persuasive? I'm asking you. You're not being persuasive. When your partners in "SKAI" are unable to make them a zafti - so they say in my village - do not expect you to make a people who are not and who are not obliged to know all the consequences of the non-shooting of the squirrel. I like the murmur. We all wear it to protect us from the coronary. All right! Anyway! There are others who say other things. And to be convinced that there is no need for meetings, gatherings, etc., in public transport like sardines are Greeks. How can he then believe that the state is really interested in prevention? You knew that since March. Since March you knew and haven't brought buses and one is on each other. Isn't that where the coroner sticks? All you were interested in, of course, was getting 42 million euros into channels. Each ITH costs 33,000 to 50,000 euros. Isn't that right, Mr. Polakis? That's what it does, 50,000. So, 42 million euros for 50,000, how many units would we do? You know? Eight hundred. Eight hundred new IDs we'd have now. But you broke down Mr. Alafuzo and the rest of the channels with the 42m euros, where to find money for the ITH! Well, that's not the way to conduct a serious policy. I'm saying it straight away. And there's a premiere to close the churches. Close them to the end of the story. Become my child, you people who close the churches will shut it down. You've opened the mosques, Mr. Pleari. Nice mosque. I liked it. Smile, Mr. Comrade. But you were saying a few years ago and you and the rest in the New Democracy. "Outside the mosque from Athens", "No to the Botanic mosque". What happened now? Scarlets and that? What about the Botanic chariot? Is everything slutty? The French are closing mosques, we're opening mosques. Find the mistake. And because you're and naive - I won't say you're half-learned, no - you don't know the most basic thing, that an Afghan with a Pakistani don't go to the same mosque. You don't know that. So we're gonna need another mosque, open up more mosques. The Shepherds want different mosques. Athens will be filled with mosques. Greece will be called "Aladistan" shortly, not Greece. You understand that this is where you make mistakes, big mistakes. I won't say any more about the ICUs, I won't tell you about your uncertainties. You've made a lot of mistakes. We have tabled specific proposals anyway. But listen a little, so relations can be cleared up between you and me. Do you know who is at ease by measures to close the economies? Have you searched which country wins from this story by the Merkel command and voted lockdown? And you did well. You voted for the closure of normality. For what? It's your view. You didn't do well. I'm against it. Let me tell you. Because the German economy in the third quarter developed 8.2% and the German economists, colleagues of the New Democracy, say that as far as Europe closes, Germany wins so much. Check it out. Why don't you look into it? Why did Merkel say a week ago 'close Europe', did you close Greece today? Why are we closing Greece? Why don't we die of the coronary? I tell you, the Greeks will starve to death. What else do you want? You will die of starvation to the Greeks. It's over! You are destroying - I honestly tell you this - the economy. Go to the stores and ask people. And I don't tell you as a politician, but as a businessman. The fifth Memorandum comes from Brussels shortly. This House will keep coming memorials. As long as our country does not produce wealth, we will produce memos. Also, because you do not understand what crimes you are committing, Mr. Skylakakis, the Minister responsible, was asked, Minister, about the influence of focusing on the economy and could not respond. Do you know how much money is lost every month? Five billion euros. Greece will lose over the next twenty-five days that will close four billion euros. Where will it come from when the GDP of about 300 billion went down in total? Seven out of ten businesses, one out of two employees, one out of four euros in our town - in Thessaloniki, that is - are affected by lockdown, from the closure of normality. In November, they will be lost from the local retail trade in the city of Thessaloniki - we did a survey of ourselves, we have a study of about 120 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u70	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u71	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a serious matter. That's what I'm saying. I would really like to refer to the real epidemic of the crisis, which has not yet come. The coroner will be gone sometime. We all know that. The pandemic of the crisis will come, though. And the pandemic of the crisis and the consequences will be dramatic. And I'm afraid you'll have a bomb in your hands, Minister, you and the New Democracy, which you can't, honestly, disarm it, because you triggered it with the mistakes you made in the process. Why don't you do what happened in Taiwan, Slovakia? There are countries which have performed more tests. I have been saying, ‘Take a test everywhere, so that the coronary can be isolated’. You weren't listening. You did yours. And Taiwan's model moved on three specific axes. If you don't know them, we testified them in the Minutes here. We have it in Greek's proposals. These are concrete proposals. And of course, I would like to close, because I am also pressed on by the President, to tell you something very simple. What scientific study shows that the virus is passed on from restaurants, ladies and gentlemen, not from public transport? You tell me. If you find me a study that tells me that in restaurants, whose distance from each other is two meters, I stick to a coronary, but in the public transport that we are at thirty, forty, fifty centimeters, sardines, I don't stick a coronary, we talk about it. Seriously, let's talk about it. But with fireworks incapacitated, we won't have a dialogue. You're only fireworks accepting your inability. I could quote Sweden for other reasons, but I do not. Mr President, I will only need one more minute. I'd like to go a little bit to Trump. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, history with Trump needs to be a lesson - and I say it directly, ladies and gentlemen - about the plight of the polls. Because it's been a punk about the polls for ten years. And they think it affects the electorate, but it doesn't affect it. It seemed from Trump. Fifteen points of difference Biden a week before the election. And now he's refreshing with the predicament for Biden to win the election. Because it's a limp and it's proven. Who? The man of ANTIFA, illegal immigration, terroristism, green development and stories of Halima. But I'll say something. The new law we brought here, there's a letter vote. New Democracy brought him. Minister, it is a very serious matter, because in the United States, I have the figures before me - there have been four thousand seven hundred eighty-eight-fold entries in one election station in the United States, two thousand five hundred three dead, one voter born in 1823. These were proved this morning. So the letter vote depends on those we will send to our consulates. So I want those who will send over to the consulates to be from the Arena Ice correctly positioned, because the bags are carried from them to Greece. Am I wrong? During the transfer many things can happen, to vote SYRIZA, for example, someone coming out of New Democracy, to vote for New Democracy and to come to a Greek solution, I say. The second is out of order, but I'm saying. I would like to say to you that she needs special attention. You're smiling, Minister, but that's the way it is. The validity of the letter vote is very important not to have what we have, unfortunately, in the United States. And a question to all political staff: You once joined the Republicans and became more "Obamamians" and democratic than democratics. Why did you all find Trump? The whole political system - I came to a certain distance - all had it with Trump, all of them, SYRIZA, KKE, New Democracy, Change Movement. What if he's elected? What if he becomes President of the United States? I disagree with him why he has Turkish-friendly attitudes and attitudes for his own interests, but you cannot pre-election. And I saw Mrs Bakoyannis in "SKAI" and she said raw, dry "I want Biden to go out." And I wonder what kind of logic that is, when we need America, which we do not know the result, to vote or to support and to prosecute someone who can help us sometime instead of manoeuvring. Is that how the political system works? When your ideology - says - enters over your national interest, then you have a problem and you have a policy and be Minister and rule the place. It's just stuff! Just serious policy stuff! It cannot be a small country like Greece, which has a strong worldwide presence, to play between the buffaloes, because when the frog enters between the buffaloes, it will pay for the frog. You don't understand that, unfortunately. And I'm going down here, Minister. You're an archaic, archaic. What's the matter with you? For the Acropolis, didn't you see it? You heard what Mendoni said! Fairy tales! Tell me a country, ladies and gentlemen, where the restoration of the Acropolis lasts 60 years! If we become a government - I tell you right now - we will abolish both the CSCE and all these bureaucrats who call them strange works and desecrate our national and historical dignity. Cement on the Acropolis? Even the Turks wouldn't do it! Cement in the Acropolis, when are there other ways? Whole study we testified to the Ministry of Culture! Here she is, and I'll testify to her for the Minutes. They gave 1 million euros and put cement on the Acropolis! And our study of 200,000 euros - 200,000 euros! - with ready footage, like in Rome in the archaeological sites, without having the cement, and you're not embarrassed? The Acropolis, the Parthenon, have you desecrated? And the excuse is the LEADER. Clearly, HEIs will have room, but there is another way with special structures. This is the Greek solution! We work and fight, but with proposals. But you cannot forget the obvious. You are the defenders, you are the people who must preserve as an eye crown and as an eye crown sincerely the Acropolis. You desecrated her with a concrete! Cement to be done! All right, your right! Now you tell me - and I will tell you, although I have nothing with the lady, I will close here, Mr President - a New Democracy that suits Diamantopoulou and the daughter of Panagiotarea with 35 grand a month! Ladies and gentlemen, that's fine! Who is Mrs Panagiotarea's daughter - to understand myself, she is, of course, in ELIAMEP - and you will take her to Papoutsis? The New Democracy put his Papoutsis "SAMINA", the New Democracy will put Ms. Panagiotarea's daughter, I have nothing with the girl, it can be the best of everyone. Did it become a competition? Is something wrong? Where's your final state? Mrs. Panagiotarea comes out with the daughter, she puts the daughter, Mrs. Diamantopoulou comes out, puts Diamantopoulou. Where are your contests? Where's your SAAP? Where are your exquisite men? Unless you think Diamantopoulou is excellent with the photocopies she gave to the Ministry of Education. You're making fun of the world! I'm afraid there's a storm coming for the New Democracy, not just because of incapacity, not because of the ivory mutation of your ideology. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You have all become mutants and - if you like - 'Language left'. You are wrong and you are driving the line and yourself to the rocks and the bottom.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u72	I would ask that the Step be taken sanitaryly so that the New Democracy MP, Mr Zetta Makri, can speak and then the President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, will take the floor. Until you take the floor, Mrs Makreres, to read exactly the record of the last meeting of the Conference of Presidents, as regards the measures which are now needed, health. By unanimous decision from now on, the observance of the speaker's time is a matter not only of rules but also of health, because with the health orders the Chamber must be cleansed more regularly, more regularly depleted and more stringent protection among us of the whole population of this Parliament from the coronary pandemic. That is why you will allow me to make it understandable from now on to everyone, that for the six minutes there is a warning at five that you have to finish at six. Therefore, keeping time, in order not to become bad from the Bureau, must be well known for everyone from the outset and kept. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to say - my colleagues will take it to their President - I did not know about Mrs Eleni Panagiotarea. It is certain that Mr. Velopoulos also does not know Mrs. Helen Panagiotarea's CV, and it is certain that he did not read the announcement of the Federation of LEAs, which welcomed the initiative of the Ministry of Culture to facilitate their access to the ancient monument. And, of course, I would like to say that - unwise, it seems - I expected in today's debate that there would be better points, Minister, and I was waiting for a responsible opposition. When I read the bill, I realized that it does not offer for excesses, such as banks benefit, for inaccurate cases that there are trolls who propaganda, nor for unholy comparisons of politicians from representatives of parties who see the power and influence of their sometimes state-of-the-art movements to collapse. Of course, we have heard the unworthy, unjust, tax-free, easy criticism of the management of the pandemic when the Prime Minister himself just said that scientific evidence is unnecessarily unnecessarily needed. In the bill under discussion, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional and in line with the European Convention on Human Rights, the provisions of the sixth in a series of legislation of the Ministry of Justice on speeding up the trial of pending cases of the law codified by Katseli, with express provision and expressed the political will of the Minister to help and strengthen, with all the available means, the thirty-five-two-five-treaty of the country in which cases are pending on a trialable basis after 15-6-2021. It was clear in the debate in the committee responsible and in the views of our Minister and rapporteur that the essential content of this law is not changed. No right shall be denied to borrowers who have appealed to the courts to protect their first residence or to change their legal coverage. Only procedural changes are made to the case for a more rapid decision, so for a fuller safeguard of the right of each applicant to be judged by his natural judge in a reasonable period of time, thereby giving an end to a tortured pending and uncertainty. The bill under discussion seeks - and it succeeds - to ensure that the first home of the weak, who have a long trial, and also to remove the legitimate protection of strategic malpractices. We received more than 100 thousands of pending cases in June 2019 and without abolishing the oral procedure, we ensure by procedurally tested and effective procedures that speed up the proceedings of the pending cases. Perhaps it fails to mention that the previous SYRIZA - Independent Greeks coup d'état had tried to deal with the seriousness of the pending cases, but did not have time to do so. He didn't catch that either. The use of the electronic platform with full and complete protection of the personal data of the borrowers - following the adoption of the proposals and comments submitted - contributes substantially to the success of the planning of the legislative initiative, which is no other than the facilitation and protection of the borrower. The same is true of changing the way in which the legal status is acquired, as is absolutely necessary and the competition of the candidates for lawyers from the plenary, which has not only the necessary know-how, but also the possibility of giving the procedure the prestige and the necessary guarantee for the proper conduct of the examinations, without, however, overlooking their consistent and rapid execution. The arrangements for Olympics and Paralympians, for the functioning of the collective bodies of the legal associations, for the enforcement process, for judges, for the application of the fundamental right, whereby no one is persecuted or punished criminally, are in the right direction and facilitate the proper, rapid and modern administration of justice, as are the arrangements for strengthening the FIFG with staff, but also for increasing the organic positions at the Court of Auditors. I will, however, focus on the consolidation of the two prosecutors, namely the prosecutors against corruption and the prosecutors of economic crime, which unification is not just completely changing the data for their operation, but also harmonises it with the analogy of all the other European countries. You see, Greece was the only country that had the European originality for the same issues to have two prosecutors. This initiative was a programme commitment from the New Democracy. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiaras, had specifically mentioned her in his own programming statements and is currently recommending it on the basis of data and data for the best functioning of this important public prosecutor sector. It has nothing to do with faces. It neither helps nor seeks to withdraw functions or to remove responsibilities. I think it is wrong for the quality and importance of the bill, which essentially adopts a consistent demand for judicial associations and was correctly included in the current bill by the Ministry's leadership. In our country where justice must speed up its operation, decide on the small and large, on the bourgeois and criminal cases that the cases must not be dealt with when the evidence has now been altered or lost and the dispute at issue makes no sense, the legislative initiative that we are discussing today was necessary. Finally, justice mechanisms must function in good time and efficiently and this is not without them. It is fundamental for the economy, for freedom, for democracy, for the survival and dignity of our country's citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u74	We would also like to thank Mrs Makre for the time she has taken. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Prime Minister. As you know, Mera 25 in March, in the first phase of the quarantine, we have strongly supported the restrictive measures. That means responsibility for opposition. At the same time, however, we had warned. You remember that. We said that the period of the two-month quarantine period had to be used to prepare for the exit of the quarantine, in view of the second wave, and we said three very specific things that should have been done: firstly, the creation of a genuinely public system of mass tests to control the whole population free of charge. We have said that since March. We said: "Organize, you have two months, do it." Secondly, the immediate recruitment of seven thousand permanent doctors and nurses for the real immunization of the national health system. Thirdly, the immediate order of the intensive treatment units of private clinics and their incorporation into the national health system for as long as the pandemic lasts. What did you do with it? A hole in the water! Absolutely nothing! You have not only failed in three of these, with the result that what we have today. Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you chose not to do it, as I have denounced in this Chamber. Doles, designed for oligarchy failure, to avoid upsetting the clinical masters, private diagnostic centers, who do not allow you to do mass appointments to the national health system. If that's not the case, tell me why you don't do them. Did Brussels not tell you that the extra costs for the fight against health pandemic - for example appointments to the National Health System - do they not even fall under the suspension of budgetary adjustment measures? Last night, waiting for the Prime Minister's announcement today, we made a announcement. We said: Mr Mitsotakis, we warn you and we challenge you, if in the communication - today, the one we have heard - for the new restrictive measures, you do not include a commitment to the immediate implementation of these three more basic measures, Mera25 will denounce you as a conscious partner in the undermining of public health. That's what we're doing today. We will support the restrictive measures, but the 'boss' will not go along with it. We're clear. You do not have our support, you do not have our tolerance for the fact that you do not apply these three basic things. Public mass test system. It is a shame that you have neglected it. Seven thousand appointments. Did you appoint four hundred staff to the ERC for two years? This is a disgrace! And I'm sure you can't, on a personal level, be ashamed of yourself. Check your government. They don't have the right to act as agents of the clerks. And a requisition. Is it possible to rent private clinics, even doubling the price, in such a period? Retirement. So, while you are not doing this, you are accomplices to the undermining of public health. As you are, of course, not just collaborators, but campaigners of the undermining of the economy, the majority of entrepreneurs and families. You are orchestras of a Memorandum of Symphony Orchestra that today presents in full another work in the context of this large plundering contract of private property, which has its roots in the first Memorandum and which is now enriched with what we call the fifth Memorandum, which started with bankruptcy, continues today with this bill and is evolving. You have heard of the republication of Piraeus, ladies and gentlemen. It's a puzzle this, a composition. Today's bill is nothing but a little bit of a "colpo grosso" mosaic against the large majority, people out there who rely on us, the MPs, to protect them. With your votes, however, you hand them over to the worst, most challenging raid of the Luben oligarchy without frontiers. How's your bill? It ends the Katseli Act and thus any protection to borrowers it provides. It clears him by way of summary procedures, leaving the scope for the bankruptcy law that you have recently passed. But we in Mera25 will not stand up to the contents of this particular bill today. We will stand by what strengthens and facilitates what you are doing. What is it that solves your hands in total? Who are your greatest helpers today in trying to get the decisions and the statutes to go through with this great robbery of the property of many? Let me tell you what it is that solves your hands. It is the general, fragmentary and misleading opposition of the rest of the memorial arch, the former PASOK, the Movement of Change and SYRIZA, who, while the governmental thugs opened the way and prescribed what you are doing today, set the water on the groove, today shouting against you for the individual, distractively, with the sole purpose of invoking you for the details, without ever invoking you for the overall plan that you were partners in. I hear you of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, support Katseli and the need to protect the first residence. Do you not tell me, colleagues of SYRIZA, when you voted in 2015 to sell the red loans that included first home mortgages, what did you think you were doing? Why buy a predator fund a red loan that has first home mortgage if he can't sell it? You make fun of yourself if you think what you did in October 2015 was compatible with the law of Katseli. The abolition of the Katseli Act begins with that vote. Since you accepted the creation of a secondary market for red loans involving the first residence, the small and medium-sized enterprises' real estate. You launched the abolition of the 'Katsellis' today. I will continue to refer to SYRIZA for very little, because I read and was very interested in the announcement made by some of your Members, your representatives, for the republicisation of Piraeus Bank now under way by the Mitsotakis Government. The Prime Minister from what we read has already made his decision to proceed with this statism, giving virtually another 2 billion more to the predator funds that have also been taken by the Piraeus Bank. Because you know very well that Piraeus Bank belongs to Mr. John Paulson, a gentleman who should be in prison right now if Obama hadn't left him out. This gentleman you all put on the memorial arch at Piraeus Bank and this gentleman you will now support the alpha or beta way. I read your announcement. But what did I see? That you're accusing the government of handling. What manipulations? What the government is doing today, which we condemn, but we have the right to morality and reasonableness to do, is what you have prescribed. It is your contract that Mr Mitsotakis is energizing today. If someone was just reading your communication, he would not understand that it was you in the government, who actually had that government do what it does. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation we are facing. We have a government that implements a multi-annual plan and we have a Memorandum of Understanding, both the Change Movement and SYRIZA, which beats the government where the government does not hurt. You beat them where they don't hurt. You are appalled for the abolition of the Katseli Act and the protection of the first residence when the whole dunia knows that you put in front of the sales of red loans made by law in view of the abolition of the Katseli Act. Your focus on details such as today's bill and the criticism of the re-publicisation of Piraeus Bank aims, in the final analysis, to hide from the world your own participation in the crime that is being committed today. Ladies and gentlemen, Mera25 will not help your joint effort, of the three major parties, to ash the eyes of the world that is suffering right now. So I will not focus on today's bill article for an article, I will not concentrate on the technical parts of Piraeus Bank statement. What I will do today from this Step is to reveal how and why today's bill, the new state-of-the-art Piraeus Bank, the bankruptcy you've been going through recently, how all this is part of a more comprehensive memorial plan to confiscate the few people's fortunes, which began a decade ago and today in its final phase. Allow me a time, because it is important not to forget even here by the Members of this House and by anyone listening to us, the few who listen to us from Parliament's channel. Ladies and gentlemen, from 2008 to 2015 the taxpayers supported the banks with 106 billion. Of these, ECU 46 billion was made available to finance small and medium-scale projects. It was warm money that the Greek taxpayer borrowed from the troika to give them to the banks and about 60 billion was in the form of guarantees. By capturing SYRIZA in the summer of 2015 foreign "paracists" - I referred to a "excellent", famous gentleman, Mr. Polson - in a good cooperation with locals they acquired for the incomplete sum of 8.3 billion banks. Question: why did they give these 'predators' of 8.3 billion? You know, these "predators" never buy banks. They're not placed in banks, they're not strategic investors, Mr. John Paulson and Sias are not banks anywhere in the world. They only came here. Because they gave $8.3 billion. to buy the cut-offs of the Greek banks? I'll tell you why. Because they have pierced the property of most of the citizens of this country that exceeds, as far as objective values are concerned, the EUR 400 billion. Well, it's not a bad investment of 8.3 billion to put your target point 400 and maybe more, if there's one time - and we all hope - recovery. The message of Mera25 to the citizens who see us, to the few, is this: every time they call you by degrading you, threatening you with gods and demons for a loan that you cannot repay and which it drowns you, remember this. With an investment of ECU 8.3 billion. and support from you citizens themselves of the order of EUR 120 billion. "Practical" aims to grab Greek property of at least EUR 400 billion. It is not a personal matter, it is a national issue, because it is too big a stalk. The second message to the citizens of Mera25 is this: every time you hear the economic press coming forward, the institutional factors, for the good course of the Greek economy, while you know very well, you feel the collapse that prevails everywhere, remember that anywhere in the world - and I challenge anyone who wants to come to give me different information - do not make greater profit percentages of foreign "predators" than in our country. Nowhere else in the world! They buy a loan of 100 grand to 4 grand for a property that you, a citizen, had that loan of 100 grand may have paid back all 50 grand and 600,000. The loan of your 100 grand buys it for 4 grand, take out the hammer for 20 and have a profit rate of 400%! Such profit rates today, with negative interest rates, throughout the West do not exist. That is why they support the good course of the Greek economy. Is it not to be successful? But here, fellow Members of the New Democracy, in particular, who are in the matter today, are you not ashamed to ask your voters to celebrate with the "paracists" for these huge percentages of profits of the "paracists" at the expense of the Greeks, at the expense of your voters, the popular classes that voted for the New Democracy? Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill, the imminent stateisation of Piraeus Bank, and of course bankruptcy give us the opportunity together to take a look at the big picture, see the thread that goes through and hides behind all of this, from all these developments. But I will insist on time. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 all the banks of the West went bankrupt, all of them. There was no bank of the West that wouldn't go bankrupt in 2008. The Greeks, who of course had given so many "seawaters", including those in your parties, could of course not escape. Abbreviations were followed directly in 2008, giving at least 50 billion liquidity to the banks, with a public guarantee. Do you know that? Do you know that since Mr. Aloscouf's time every Minister of Finance, including me up to Mr. Stakoura today, you know that you, us, the state of 56 billion at the moment we're talking about the four banks? Do you know how that works? I'll tell you why you might not know. Why, you know, ladies and gentlemen, - and this is a reproach for our parliamentaryism, what I am saying to you - the guarantee given to bankers has never been passed by this House. Do you know that? Feeling good to have given bail? Would you ever give a guarantee not for 56 billion euros but for 560 euros, without knowing it yourself? That's what happened here. How'd it happen? I'll tell you. Piraeus Bank, the National Bank, was taking out an IOU of some billions, which, of course, as a bank bank bank, would buy? Nobody. It's a bond, IOU. Do not confuse, the same thing is, a promise that the holder of this old paper has received so much billions from me. That's the IOU. This in itself has no value. Piraeus Bank took it, took it to the finance minister in question, put the bogeyman in the public guarantee, the banker took it, went to the central bank, deposited it as a guarantee, took cash. We currently have 50 to 56 billion of such guarantees. These are normally added to the Greek debt. You know that the IMF adds them to its mind, says "you have them too", because that is also a debt. Let us not forget that today people are losing their homes because they have guaranteed each other's homes. I address the citizens once again: when they call you and humiliate you, do not forget that. Since 2008 you have been paying them guarantees. Of course these tens of billions did not come and so it followed the second memorandum. But let's go just before the second memorial, because it's worth remembering. Do you remember the movements of the common criminal law made by the bankers between the first and second memorials? Do you remember Mr Laurentiades, who, with the tolerance of the Bank of Greece, took 600 million loans from his bank and went bankrupt, 51 million of whom were found in his own personal account? Do you remember that? Do you remember the owner of Piraeus then and MARFIN who gave 110 million loans to each other through their banks and their subsidiaries in Cyprus and these loans used them to keep the banks under control by buying shares? And immediately after they crossed them, they made them red loans and they went through the governess. Do you remember that? And how was Mr. Laurentiadis and Mr. Sallas punished for all this? How did they get punished? They've put the Greek taxpayer, we're taxing you, borrowing $1.3 billion. from the troika to rescue PROTON and then give it a gift to the Piraeus of Mr. Sala, to which of course they gave other things, didn't they? Don't forget! They gave the entire Marfin Egnatia, the healthy part of the Agricultural, i.e. the 1/3 of the Greek land, which was mortgaged on the Agricultural and Greek branches of the Cypriot banks. It matters because you go back to Piraeus without any benefit to the Greek State and no benefit to the borrowers to whom you come to attack today with today's bill. That's why I bring everything together, because the big picture is the one that matters. And in 2012, that was not enough. With the second memorandum and the well-known PSI you received 40.6 billion dollars. a loan from the Troika on behalf of the Greek people and you gave it to the bankers. That was part of the triple crime. Do you know what the other two were? That you are giving them future 30-year-old taxes of at least EUR 10 billion, which you even allow them to count as banks. And despite the fact, of course, that these banks were basically nationalised in 2012, 2013, with EUR 50 billion. The Greek people, there was no public control over the banks. Nobody! And it was legislated not to exist, which is what you know very well. They didn't have a vote on the shares they took over from the government. Do you know what the worst is? The worst part is you gave 50 billion dollars. at the time, in 2012, in 2013, but this move reminded the following: It was like having a drill and putting water over it. Of course the water will go down. So, what are the holes in the Piraeus drill, the national, Eurobank, Alpha? It's the red loans! I'm telling you, and I'm telling you again to ask someone who knows. What's the chapter of a bank? They're not the depositors' deposits, they're the loans they give. When the loans are red, it turns into a drill. No matter how much capital you throw off the top, they're gone. We hear here very often ministers, Prime Ministers, Members of Parliament throwing bankruptcy, new bankruptcy, third bank bankruptcy, and the government that I joined with SYRIZA in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we can also say nonsense in the context of political confrontation. The question is if you believe what you're saying. Here - and I will put it out in the Minutes - I have an article by the favorite Troika journalist, Peter Spiegel, by the FINANCIAL TIMES which states clearly - this is a February 2014 article! - that the International Monetary Fund rejects the view of the Bank of Greece in February 2014 that the banks had already lost the funds you had given New Democracy and PASOK of 40.6 billion. Of ECU 50 billion And they needed, said the Bank of Greece," another 6 billion. And the IMF comes out - and here I'm going to submit this report to the Minutes - and what does it say? They were so angry that the Washington people were with you, with the Memorandum Arc, that you're hiding the bank's lack of funds. February 2014! And what does the IMF say? That 20 billion people needed recapitalization! This February 2014! Which they didn't give. They expected to come in 2015 to drop the costs of the new recapitalisation, the new bankruptcy, the first left government in the negotiation, the "no" of the Greek people. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let's go now to the third memorial. Immediately after Mr. Tsipras' conspiracy on the night of the referendum, Troika set up its plan for banks, for bankruptcy, for the Katseli law, for red loans since February 2014. So it starts, directly, in October 2015 - you of SYRIZA - the privatisation of banks with state subsidies. Isn't that amazing? Private privatisation with state subsidies. To reduce the amount of the loan they would give in the third memorandum, what did they do? Two things: First, they did what they were not aware of in 2012, that is, they haired the value of the shares of the bank owners. Why did they do that? Because 2012 was private and they didn't touch them. In 2015 it was the Greek State after the PSI. They had no problem surfing the Greek state, taking the bank's ownership rate from around 67% to 20%. That was the first thing they did. They have done something else that is in front of you right now and is darkening your life today. And that was forcing SYRIZA to do it. We have the so-called 'Cos', the bonds, the IOUs which are converted into shares. What did they do? The subsidy was only 5.4 billion in banks to attract the predators, as I said before, to sound good at 5.4 and not be 7.8, 10. So what did they do? They have defied what you are doing now, which requires you to do the third memorandum now. The government, in other words, gave Piraeus, National and other banks a loan, but it had such conditions that it was certain that it would not be repaid. And I'm becoming specific. These bonds, IOUs, had an 8% coupon rate in October 2015 when the Central Bank's interest rate was negative. He had an interest rate of 8%! In other words, the public loaned SYRIZA with 8%. Why? Because the troika told them. And why did the troika say so? Because they knew this loan would not be repaid. And what are they doing? They put in the contract of this loan the clause that if this money cannot be repaid by Piraeus Bank or if the European Central Bank considers that they should not let it repay it, because it does not have capital adequacy or because it is already living from the charity of the European Central Bank, then they will force you to go to take it today - which made you give them those loans - shares in a proportion of 6 euros for each stock, which today if you go to the stock exchange, you will get it for 60 minutes! We're talking ten times up! In other words, it was planned as early as October 2015 to recapitalise the banks by the government on behalf of the same taxpayer who is calling him today and humiliating him by the banks themselves and by the predicaments set up by the bankers themselves together with you and your company, to humiliate him and demand from him 100% of the loan back. So, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 banks were privatised with new public money and public subsidy of 5 billion, and if you put 'Cos', 10 billion. Once again, the aim was to attract the 8 billion, the 8.3 billion of the "paracy" that you put on the market of the red loans you set up, the electronic platforms you set up, to put a hand in private property, at least 400 billion with legislative tools, such as the "HRAKLIS" last December, such as the bankruptcy law you brought two weeks ago and today's bill. That's the roast, here's the essence! And you see how all this connects to each other. The right to be hunted today by the "paracists" citizens from 2008 to 2020, that is, until now, has been bought by the "paracists" with the Greek people's money. And now I shall conclude, Mr President, with a reference to the future, what will come of it. Remember, I will say once again, what was that, what was all it could cut, that Greece, the Greek economy in the Eurozone, particularly in the Eurozone financial system? The low private debt and the high percentage of home ownership and shops. Loans were given to us, you will remember, the Franco-German banks, and especially the German banks, in particular, for the purchases of their own products...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u76	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. You just stalled me. I'll tell my proposal from the beginning. Please don't delay me again. Financing our imports from the Nordic countries of the European Union through a banking system. They knew that if Greece needed to go bankrupt, they would at least have this private property. For what is happening today, the recent past, ladies and gentlemen, one has shown that the more bankrupt the Greek banks are the more complex the plans with which troika and oligarchy carry wealth from the citizens to the predators. Sometimes they privatize bankrupt banks, sometimes they stack them into bankrupt banks, sometimes they privatize them again. In 2012 with citizens' money they stacked Piraeus Bank, in 2015 with citizens' money privatised it, in 2020 with citizens' money again privatising it. Next year, maybe in 2022, they'll privatize her again with public damage. With all such movement of public money, it reinforces the predators behind the banks and brings them closer to their much-needed goal, to take your home, shop, Greek tax, Greek citizen. The pandemic today achieves two things: the reding of other loans - why is that not a pandemic, the economic pandemic? It also redundancies - firstly, it deepens bank bankruptcy and secondly, it creates a new glorious field for predators, as new properties are added to the pile of red loans that are the glorious field of predators. What does that mean? It means that pandemic will exponentially enhance the possibility of oligarchy and predators to extract public property and property from private individuals through the dire depth of bank and government bankruptcy. Poverty banks, more and more rich bankers and predators running around them. In two words, we are awaiting a reinforced debt regime, which today builds on the foundations of your legislation, what you are going through here, with the cover offered by the general fragmentary opposition of major anti-population. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a new failure in the government's treatment of the health pandemic, because the government has chosen not to invest in public goods. This is not about failures, but about a targeted attack on public goods that are evolving hand - hand, along with the targeted attack on the private property of many who have started many years with all your governments that are a port - a port - building a debt prison, in which the citizens of this country are systematically shut down. We entered the House so that you, the "architects" of the legislative side of the debt-court, could not be misled by the citizens, focusing on the individual and through your "courts" on the details, concealing what the very few are going to the detriment of the many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u78	And we thank the President. I call on my colleague, Mr Ljupi, to move to Stepma from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes as a follow-up to the law on settlement of debts and the possibility of a second chance that we voted on a few days ago. This is the last stage of the government's effort to tackle the private debt issue in an integrated manner. The draft law under discussion does not affect or amend the favourable protection framework applicable to those who applied for the Katseli Act by February 2019. However, a rapid decision on those cases that were initially identified is being reached by 2030. The speeding-up sought is entirely to serve those who are indebted to the final settlement of their credit cases. The only ones who are likely to be dissatisfied with developments are those who do not qualify for the law, but have tried to exploit the protection offered up to the stage of the main proceedings. With the new provisions, cases to be dealt with by 15 June 2021 shall be subject to an electronic request for redefinition. The request shall be made by means of a particularly simple procedure through the single digital portal by the applicant's proxy lawyer. The application is served on all sides by electronic means, even with SMS, thus contributing to speeding up the process and reducing the total costs. No parties shall be present in the court. An exceptional hearing may be allowed only when the judge considers that he has to examine witnesses. The decision shall be adopted within six months and the whole procedure shall be terminated with full respect for the rights of the parties. In the case of Greek judicial proceedings, the provision permitting any communication by the court and the parties to be communicated by e-mail to the declared electronic addresses of the lawyers. The opposition has spoken about suffocating deadlines that will cause a problem for the indebted. The truth is, however, that with great attention, successive dates have been provided for the submission of the request for redefinition which starts in December and ends in May 2021. Enough time shall be provided for interested parties to collect all the necessary documents and prepare them properly. The second part of the bill amends provisions of the Code of Law, with a view to better meeting the current needs of exercising the law. It is important that lawyers employed in the courts and legal persons of public bodies for a longer period, twelve instead of six months. It restores an injustice with the lawyers of Olympians and Paralympians appointed to the public. They can reappoint themselves as lawyers and continue their law. A more complete description and assessment of the actual value of an auctioned property is ensured. A certified assessor’s report on the commercial value of the property and photos of the property shall be added to the documents delivered by the curator to the official. This is how the bidders get a more accurate picture of the property. Technology shall be used in the interest of the Judges' deliberations which may be conducted remotely using electronic means, provided that the confidentiality of the procedure is of course ensured. The vision for Greek justice clearly includes moving to the digital age with less bureaucracy and more flexibility at all levels. Strengthening the use of technology within the courts is what is being asked. At this level, twenty organic IT posts are added to the Council of State to operate the integrated judicial management system of judicial justice. Critical to the legal world is the long delays that have been observed for many years in the payment of legal services, in the context of legal aid through the FIFG. In response to the need to deal more quickly with the tens of thousands of outstanding payment orders for legal aid lawyers, the Ministry of Justice shall establish the secondment of officials to the FMD for at least 12 months. Today's bill comes at the right time. A grid of arrangements for speedy legal protection is created for those who have applied for their inclusion in the Katseli Act. Those belonging to the category of truly overdue households will soon have a definitive settlement of their debts. In this way, the law on overdue households completes its cycle and opens the way for new arrangements that deal with the debt and other debts of the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u80	We also thank you for keeping time. He has the floor now, after a settled Step, the colleague of SYRIZA Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos. Now that we're wearing the masks, Mr. Xanthopoulou, we're not easily acquainted with and looking for you, I was looking for you. You have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first like to make a comment. I'm a new MP, of course. However, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament give it the privileged treatment of the Heads only in order and not in terms of duration. Mr Velopoulos has spoken for twenty-eight minutes instead of fifteen minutes. Mr Varoufakis said thirty minutes instead of fifteen minutes. So the time of the Members is limited. This is exacerbated by the need to deal with the pandemic, where we need to finish as soon as possible. I would ask the Bureau to make use of the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing so that it really can intervene and regulate the procedure. As far as the debate is concerned, we are following the second act of the drama resulting from the loss of first residence. Prior to the Bankruptcy Code. And now comes the suffocating restriction of the persons entitled to legal protection of the first place of residence. The continuing meetings that we held in committee have shown the clear distinction between what the government is trying to do and the objection of society which is under these circumstances. The New Democracy colleagues, above all the rapporteur, have claimed that the essential requirements of the law do not change. That is partly true. However, the procedural requirements are changing, i.e. changing the scope of its application. And that's decisive for changing all the philosophy of the law. Finally, Minister, we are not questioning the efforts you have made. We are criticising the objective, which is no more than a suffocating restriction on those who are entitled to this protection. And I say in the most unequivocal way to cancel, withdraw the unacceptable one accompanying the non-submission of applications appropriately to the electronic platform. It will be a very indicative placement and gesture on your part, because that is essentially the aim of the bill's major objective, to prevent people from being integrated into the protection of first residence. Minister, let me point out this. In the first debate we had in the committees you said about Chapter VI, on the independent authority. Refused?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u82	You'll see in law school. It's cleared. That's where it looks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u83	Okay. I was watching the text and I didn't get it. No problem, Minister. Obviously I accept your clarification. I would point out that Mrs Giannakopoulou' s reminder that this is the case and, in any case, we will see it. Basically, the argument put forward by the government is that it is a country's commitment and we have to listen to the deadlines. It's still half the truth. Of course, it is the deadline that has been signed by the country, regardless of whether it was the SYRIZA government in this case, that by the end of 2021 we will end its pending proceedings under Law 3869, what I say is the world 'Kateli - Stathaki'. But you are doing so with a completely different orientation. You have been able for about a year and a half to be a government to appoint peacekeepers, to strengthen the peace process. There is the list - we have said it another time - of the peacekeepers who have achieved the tests and you could get out of there. To proceed with the appointment of officials to strengthen the administrative structure of the courts. Move it from court courts to judges in peace who do not deal with the falls after the new Criminal Code. You have chosen a radically different path. Who's that? The way of restricting citizens' right of access. And you even have 'cries' conditions which are extremely difficult for the average citizen to respond. So what is the final state that you have been proclaiming for a year and a half since you've been government? And why is there no link through the platforms of public bodies or private bodies, so that the file you want is not updated home? Where did you find this written by the citizen looking for three years before the start of his contractual obligations with the bank all the evidence to feed his file and if he doesn't succeed, is that considered unacceptable and to leave? These are the targets. That's why you're being prosecuted. That's why we tell the citizens they'll lose their home. And even in the midst of a pandemic, no one will get it. It will not be understood that a huge mechanism for transferring property from citizens to predators and banks is being put to the detriment of them. I'm making a few points to be in the short term. Article 32 requires a limitation on the precedents of the Criminal Code of Smuggling. Watch it or we'll find it in front of us. If you have objectives like that, the National Representation must stand across and not allow it. Judges have said so. We call it that, and we made it known throughout society. There are limitations on major offences and you have a responsibility. Let's go to article 40. Tell us the name. Who is the chosen, in any case, for which an entire National Representation is legislating to settle in his personal choices and family peace? Do these kinds of services and put us in a game right here, the whole National Representation, to make people comfortable. We have told you in committee too, and the association has told you that it is purely discrimination and you are not saying the name. Is there a man behind which an entire political system is costly to serve? Article 51, press offences shall be automatically lifted after the eighteenth month following the adoption of a conservative segregation against the property of publishing establishments. What selective relationships they are with the press! The Pecha List isn't enough? The enhancement of the Pecha list, isn't it enough? Are we dismissing the property of people who have convicted decisions? Isn't it obvious that there are subspecies, suspects, underground routes involving you with a large part of the publishing establishment? For Article 65, we really want a documented response. Where's this story going? I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. Minister, and you, as Minister of Justice, and I, as chief of justice, have a matter to deal with. Tell us how you judge the presence of Ms. Mendoni as a party in the face of the trial in the Council of State to visit the President of the Council of State. It will be a very useful move in the logic of independence of powers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u85	And when Janakopoulos had gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u86	I should like to give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Pylakakakis, to put him on the amendment by a general number of 542 and a special 37. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for giving me the floor and Mr Voridis for giving him the floor. The amendment concerns the postponement of the date for the completion of the Committee's work on the unhealthy work allowance at the end of April. This transfer is for two reasons: one is practical. This committee was intended to finish its work in June and took a postponement in October because of the pandemic. We are now entering a new lockdown phase and there have already been serious issues and it is necessary to end the work of the committee more time and to take into account the experiences and experiences that have been gained in the pandemic. The second reason, very real, is that during '21 we cannot take permanent budgetary policy measures. The clause that has been abstracted in general terms, namely the possibility of spending additional money on the pandemic, is given provided that permanent budgetary measures are not taken. We therefore have time to take the results of the committee, to consult with the institutions, and then to be able to place ourselves on the allowance for unhealthy work ahead of the 1922 budget and the next medium-term. That is why this amendment has come, and I hope that the pandemic will be over by April, so that we can return to normality and also discuss this big issue, which I would remind you is an obligation arising from the previous phase, from the previous government - it had agreed with the institutions within the framework of the third Memorandum, if I recall correctly - it is a memorandum obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I see the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Vorides, who I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, as well as Amendment No 41. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. These are two issues relating to the Ministry of Rural Development in this respect. Very soon I'll develop the first. It concerns an extension to the full-fledged fishing licence. This extension is given for this reason in order to be able to obtain with the appropriate VMS satellite tracking devices our fishermen. The measure which finances the supply of these satellites has been lifted and will therefore participate in this measure but has not been completed. And that is why we need to give this small extension for a few more months to cover this issue, to be able to obtain this device. And then fishing will be carried out by the fishing vessels, which will have this device. But we need to implement the investment measure in this short period of time. And that is why we ask the House to approve. This is Article 6 of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of the Interior entitled 'Confidentiality Regulations'. It shall begin with Article 1: ‘Amendment to the exercise of powers by municipalities under existing administrative support’. It is in this amendment which is part of Article 6, this extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u90	Say the number, Minister, because I see you sign on to another.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u91	I do not have the number of amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u92	You have it under a general number of 548 and a special 43.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u93	So now that the extension is to be granted, will they fish or will they not be fishing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u94	Will they fish?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u95	Without the VMS machine?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u96	Yes, sir. They'll fish without the VMS. This is the extension we are making. In other words, we maintain, Mr Polakis, the existing regime for a few months even after we move into the new regime, where the VMS will not be allowed to fish without the VMS. But we are doing so so that we can get into the investment programme that has already been set up and finance the supply of this satellite system. That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u97	I just didn't realize if they'd fish or not fish until then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u98	Very good. I come to the second amendment, which is an amendment that is accelerating by the Ministry of Rural Development, concerning the major issue of penal punishment for increasing the plight of animal torturers. There have been incidents, we have seen them, over the last time that has stimulated the reaction of society, of citizens, to this appalling phenomenon. We are not talking here about a mere abuse, which was already a criminal, but which was a faulty one. We're talking about torture. We're talking about atrocities. We are talking about attitudes that are absolutely unacceptable to a civilised and favoured society. I do not want to hear - I am sure I will not hear it in the Chamber - that we are legislating in the heat. I think these incidents have already shown a change in a key size for our anti-crime policy, which is what? The size, intensity, the moral decency of this act. Our society no longer tolerates these behaviours. He wants to be punished effectively. He wants to be punished fairly. And fairly it means that they will be punished from now on with the perpetual punishment of ten years. This is the proper, proper and fair punishment for animal torturers. However, I would like to address and oppose one argument - I am sure I will not listen to it in this Chamber, but perhaps in the public debate - the argument of the so-called analogy. Is this intensification in the fact that we are turning an existing criminal behaviour - the torture of animals as a criminal behaviour - but perhaps the fact that we are turning into imprisonment, instead of a criminal penalty, is that we are going beyond the ratio, namely with legal goods which have to do with the corresponding protection of people. What is the corresponding provision of the Criminal Code, which regulates the issue of torture, torture against people? They are existing provisions of our Criminal Code - if I remember it well it is 137- which provides for a term of decay from five to twenty years. So greater intrusion. I therefore reply to that argument. The ratio is respected here. The locker's up to ten years. So what he wants us to take into account the principle of proportionality is doing so. And we are also making another change to Article 19, which says this, because a big issue which arises in these cases, apart from the punishment, in addition to the criminal punishment procedure for which there is a requirement, is what we do with the animal that has been tortured and, indeed, what we do with the animal that has been tortured and which belongs to its torturer, is its own pet, and yet it is tormenting it. Allow me only a small parentheses here, before I move on to this second issue, to further justify the need for this increase in criminal punishment. Studies have been carried out to demonstrate that animal torturers represent a social risk more widely. Their violence is not just against animals. It is, if necessary, beginning with animal torture and goes - we have such behaviour - to violence against minors and more extensively against them. People who torture animals will not stop at that. They will do even heavier and more obscene deeds. And therefore, apart from fair treatment and punishment by changing the penalty for severance for up to ten years, it also becomes social necessity. That we hope that this sentence will be reformed so that there are no offences that show that these behaviours will be passed by law. We still have one point that we are regulating, and that is that we are changing Article 19 of Law 4039 in a direction of further protection of animals, but also ultimately of concern and of imputation to what we are going to do with this animal, which has been tortured and which may belong to its torturer. The provisions of the law so far have been a provision that the prosecutor could remove this animal definitively or temporarily and be brought to the shelters. However, this carries an economic burden to the municipalities, because it must be deducted, but the financial burden above their health care for the animal, their preservation, their feeding, is transferred to the local government agencies. There is now an opportunity for the prosecutor to impose temporary removal on the condition that, however, and only then - the rule is the definitive removal, but the possibility is temporary withdrawal - that the suspect or accused person declares that he will bear the costs associated with the restoration of the animal's health, veterinary care and living. It is therefore essentially transferred to the automotive operator of torture and the cost of healing and maintenance of the animal under that provision. We will also submit a legislative improvement, where we simply add to Law 1997, in addition to the increase in the penalty for cathedrals and the financial penalty, which is legally applicable, and which is provided for in the other provision of Law 4039/2012, we did not put it here. That's purely legal. For fullness and equality of treatment this is done. I hope that the vote in favour of these provisions will also be a strong signal for the whole of the political forces, from all the Members to society that this type of behaviour is not tolerated in Greece and that those who do so will be treated with the fairness that they deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u99	For the completeness of the minutes, I would like to clarify that the initial position of the Minister had to do with the general number of 548 and specific 43 amendments, while the second and more detailed ones had to do with the general number of 546 and with specific amendment 41. I have been asked for the floor and I shall be giving it - and I shall go in the order requested, to be fair - first of all on the position of Mr Vorides, Mr Heta, then on the parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Mr Buga and then I see Mrs Adamopoulou's special rapporteur. Mr. Hetas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u100	Minister, I would like to congratulate you on a very sensitive subject to which the Greek Solution has been mentioned many times by Step. The Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy today, Mr Bougas, knows about it, we have had private debates. We have tried to speed this up with other fellow ministers. These are matters to which no one can say anything else or disagree. We're talking about cannibals, and you're right, and we've mentioned it in our speeches that whoever makes such instincts out of living creatures is very likely to make it out to people. So strict penalties are on the right track and I think we should fight both as a Parliament and as a state, Minister, as regards both changing attitudes and how we treat these animals and the municipalities. We have to control them, their subsidies, that they get the money and that they work properly so that we do not have any problems and organize ourselves in this part. We're with you. However, I would like to ask a question - we fully agree that we shall vote in favour of it, we do not discuss it - because you have spoken of a civilised society. We're talking about animal abuse. That is why I want you to reply to me - to put it to you today - what about Hallaal, Minister? Aren't we talking about animal abuse here? Aren't we talking about a civilized society? Isn't that where we talk about animal torture when they take the animal and slaughter it alive for Hallal? Shouldn't we legislate about that, too? Is there a European law requiring animals to be unconscious beforehand? What about Halal's case? They're slaughtering animals alive. We're talking vacant. It is a huge issue that we need to see. And this is animal torture. Clearly. And now, unfortunately, Minister, there have been too many of them in our country and Hallal has become fashionable and they have opened stores that are already advertised in Hallal. We need to see it and prevent developments. We're a civilized society, we're talking about animal torture. They're slaughtered on the knee without stunning them before. It's the Hallal process and I'd like a placement, but I'd like you to see it and more generally, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u101	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Buga, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that colleagues from all the wings of the Greek Parliament welcome the Minister's legislative initiative. Indeed, Mr President, man's behaviour towards animals shows the level of our culture. By stepping up the fraudulent nature of the act to a felony, it is in absolute proportion that the barbarity of the acts punishable and, of course, the provision of Article 137 of the Criminal Code mentioned by the Minister. I hope it works dissuasively. More deterrent, however, is going to work not so much on persecution or punishment, but on account of the malicious nature of the act, the perpetrator will be subjected to a major interrogation and there it is known that restrictive conditions may be imposed to prevent the same perpetrator's behaviour and, of course, to function exemplarily for society. Because it has been demonstrated, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone who displays such an attitude to animals repeats this. And the same attitude - the Minister said so - will show people. In defenceless human beings, but also in young children. Here too, Minister, I would like to propose this. By the initiation of the criminal proceedings and the formation of the case-file, the Advocate-General concerned must be immediately informed of the need for his own intervention in order to remove the parental responsibility in the event that he is a parent, his children, because he is an act of extreme, malicious and barbaric, which may, in order to protect the children, justify the automatic intervention of the Advocate-General in order to determine whether there is a reason. One more word, Mr President, and I will not abuse or exceed time. It is time to consider also the peculiar conditions of torture in shelters that do not comply with animal welfare conditions. I think, Minister, that you have shown sensitivity, that you have the will and knowledge of all these issues, which I repeat and stress are a criterion of our culture, that you deal with them and bring them to the National Representation, depending on today, in order to vote in favour of them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Buga. Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor as a special buyer of Mera 25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we too welcome the special sensitivity shown by the Ministry with this legislative initiative to an unacceptable phenomenon, the abuse and torture of animals. We believe that this initiative is taking place within the limits of proportionality in relation to the gravity and social decency of all these criminal offences. I would just like to express a reservation in relation to what you mentioned about the temporary removal of the holding of the animal from its owner, if the financial costs of restoring the damage to the animal are borne by him. Although I understand that we want to provide financial relief to municipalities from all these costs, I believe that giving an economic incentive to the owner does not mean that he has shown practical repentance. Here I think there is a risk, by giving this economic incentive, to do it just to show that he repents and then, when he takes his possession again, to show the same behavior. I believe that it should also be imposed as a penalty to the owner at the expense of restoring and depriving him of the property, or, in any event, if the possession is again assigned to him, to be under a system of long-term surveillance and supervision by experts in the relationship he is developing with the animal and his behaviour towards the animal. It is a kind of proposal and, of course, I agree with the proposal by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative that special attention should be paid to shelters for stray animals, because I too have become aware of many phenomena of negligence and abuse of these animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u105	Can I have the floor, Mr President, on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u106	I too, Mr President, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u107	I would give the floor to the Minister to answer. You have informed me that both you, Mr Ragosi, and the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement will take the floor on the draft law. If you want anything, I will ask the Minister to wait a while, so that Mr Raguss can take the floor on this matter. On the subject of the amendments, if there is one issue before the Minister leaves, either ask or add very gladly. If you want the floor for two minutes, you can take it, but that's why, and then you'll get the floor for your normal speech. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u108	It is, I think, expected and very reasonable that this amendment will be voted on unanimously by the National Representation, because without any doubt, Mr President, we have, in particular in recent times, experienced some incidents that have shocked all Greeks and Greeks. There is also no doubt that this is a first step in a direction in which we have no further need to go, but it must obviously not pass a message that this is enough on its own. We have as a society, and obviously we as a party system, a lot of work to do in this direction. Many more ministries and many more aspects of government policy, the overall government policy, have an obligation to engage in this effort, with the first and best of the Ministry of Education, which should find the way to lactate, to discipline, in a completely modern way, all these issues of animal awareness and generally everything that, when its existence is affected, is in fact not only affected by it, but also afflicted by human culture itself. In this sense, the message that we want, by giving our vote in favour of this amendment, to leave and testify, is that we need to start an overall effort and a comprehensive policy that will make us much more forward as a society in terms of culture, in terms of a modern approach to all these worthwhile issues, in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u109	We thank Mr Ragosis and I would like to give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Lykoulis, for the same amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome your initiative, Minister. I had to do this for a long time and welcome you to bring it and bring it this way, in this way, in a festive way, I would say, for your order, giving details. The level of our culture - as Members of all the groups have said - depends to a large extent on our behaviour in animals. There is still a long way to go, however, and you know that. There are two levels to which you should be necessarily involved. One level is what is really tormented. Cutting his ears, tail, poisoning him, leaving it homeless and fasting or even holding a big animal in a small balcony, for days, hours, winters, summers? What is finally considered to be torture in our own days? To take the pet as a game for his child, is that torture? The main court will judge, you will tell me. However, the state, as you can see, Minister, from your experience, has a duty to lead to legislation in order for the courts to have the substance in their hands. So many faces of torture and we are all concerned. A second level which concerns us is how animal torture is linked to human invasion. You announced this, seeing some activists - I was watching you when you made the announcements to the Ministry - and this year, therefore, it was celebrated on your statements, the world animal day, a few days ago. So, then, serious statistical studies have appeared to be made public, which said intrinsically related to adult life, when minors appear to have abused animals. This is a very interesting point and an element for an extensive sociological research, in which - why not - your ministry could have taken the lead, along with the social scientists and the relevant Ministries of Justice and Education, in order to be truly essential, and truly institutional and indeed to be seen with a view to the future. That would, in our view, be an integrated approach to the subject and time at this time, I wish we could also make such communications on such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, Mr Voridis, you have the floor to answer the points raised by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u112	I should first like to thank my colleagues for their positive response. I think I have heard almost all of Parliament's wings. The Communist Party has not been placed, but all the other parties want to thank them for their support for this legislative initiative. Just two clarifications. I think that the concept of torture is quite accurate and clear in the order. The torture of animals, with the deliberate provoking of severe physical pain or physical exhaustion - to cover a little the observation that comes from KINAL - dangerous to their health, particularly by poisoning, hanging, drowning, burning, crushing and mutilating. The ‘particularly’ is indicative and not a limited list. It's a general accusation. There is a general description which, of course, will be specific to the courts. There is also an indicative list of behaviours that are obviously behaviours of torture. So I think we have a full and well-informed legal provision here. In the remark that comes from Mera25 - let me do so - it really wants me to explain the grid here perhaps a little bit more. What did the previous arrangement say? He left the D.A.'s discretion, without distinction, without any conditions, the definitive or temporary removal of the animal from the owner who tortured it. So that was what he was staying in the prosecutor’s judgment. Now we come and do this: First of all we regulate the issue of the definitive removal that remains in the public prosecutor's judgement. We therefore restrict here the discretion of the prosecutor to give temporary withdrawal. We are linked to the temporary removal, which was before its absolute discretion, subject to the payment of the expenditure. So what's going on here? Here the provision states ‘In view of the interests of the animal, the prosecutor may temporarily remove the animal only if...’. The previous provision did not have that condition. So this is where we connect it on one condition. What will finally judge the definitive removal? For I have seen an observation saying: 'But the animal remains in the hands of the torturer'. No, of course not. In any case, the animal shall be removed. Once torture is done, the animal is removed. Is the prosecutor making a judgment: Definitive removal or temporary? The Advocate-General may, in any event, decide on the final decision. It is his right to pay or not to pay the costs. He can decide the final. He'll judge the facial characteristics. He'll see who that is. If he considers that he has to decide the final removal, he will decide. But he can decide on the temporary. A question arises: What will happen after the temporary? When is the temporary finalization finalised? Answer: By enforcing the sentence. If he's found guilty, he's obviously turned into a definitive. The guilty animal torture can't take the animal. So it turns into a definitive. If, however, he is found innocent, the temporary condition allows the animal to again. So this is legally the system of removal of the animal and I think it is right and fair. If the facial characteristics are so dangerous, the prosecutor will go to definitive removal. If it considers that it has any meaning to go to the temptation, it will give the temptation, so again the animal is removed and it does not remain in the hands of the torturer and we are waiting for the judgement of the court to be finalised. I should like to thank all my colleagues again for their support for this amendment. I would like to believe that today we are leaving Parliament having sent a very strong and clear message: the torture of animals cannot be tolerated in the Greek state and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u113	Thank you too, Minister. In order for colleagues to be able to schedule, as far as their obligations are concerned, I shall immediately give the floor - because I have been asked - to the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Giannis Ragosi and then to the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr Liikanoulis. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, the extremely unpleasant developments are taking place together, and I think that we have now reached a point which one must be on guard every second. We were informed a moment ago that Mr Mitsotakis' specific document - a press conference with Sotiris, as he called Professor Tsirda too many times, was followed by an cancellation of Mr Mitsotakis' duty to answer the timely question that Mr Tsipras has put as Chief of Staff on pandemic issues. The question was focused, as we all know, on the situation in the public transport sector. It is obvious: it is a cowardice of Mr. Mitsotakis to confront Mr. Tsipras and the Civic Opposition within the temple of democracy. Mr Mitsotakis, who has a duty to place himself, to explain and, above all, to assume his responsibilities for this dramatic development that now exists in the country, does not only suppress the functioning of the economy and society, but with this fundamentally unacceptable decision he puts Parliament in repression and the functioning of the dialogue, the possibility of opposing an opinion, the constitutionally-established opposition opinion of the Chief of Civilian Responsibility, to oblige him to give answers, to explain and assume his responsibilities. There is, frankly, no room to justify such a completely unfounded and in any case a totally problematic decision taken by Mr Mitsotakis, in essence'stopping'. A society, the Greek society was swept away some time ago at this peculiar press conference. But what was this society? It was the society that had given all its hopes to this government, which was almost literally - one could say - we had given them a white cheque for eight months. And what did he hear early November that we are still in the last month of autumn - winter starts in December and then - in a country with temperatures not in London with 1 degree of Celsius, but with 20 and 25 degrees Celsius? He heard that he now again enters a repressive regime, which is forbidden, where economic and social activity is frozen, apart from absolutely essential. Obviously, we are entering within three weeks, where all our citizens, all of us - zero excluded - and that is what we are going to do, because we are responsible for all Greeks and Greeks in the face of this society, in this place and in this people, we will do what has been decided. However, at the same time as this second ban, this second lockdown once again we are all going to do, that is to say, respect, at the same time, the questions are overtaken. Because, obviously, it was not a natural development that was launched today. In fact, what has been announced today as a result, that is, this second lockdown, has a basic cause. And that is why the government's pandemic management policy collapsed. And it collapsed because the government did not walk along the lines, with the suggestions of the scientific community. It did not scientifically address the opening of tourism. Nor could it be scientifically able to hide data in the summer about the cases on the islands. And neither can anyone scientifically explain that Mr. Markoulakis wrote "congratulations" to the Prime Minister, because he disobeyed the suggestions of the scientific community and made him the rushphetti that he had asked for at the time. That is why Mr Mitsotakis and the Government, despite our systematic challenges, questions, applications and demands, have not given - and it has not given - the minutes of the Committee on Infectious Substances to the public. Because it has been on many very critical sides of this case in violation of the common scientific logic. Actually, today, what's the point of what Mr. Mitsotakis said? It's like the National Health System's falling apart. Indeed - be careful, ladies and gentlemen - he said attributes that within the next ten days or fifteen days he may - he says - need not a thousand five hundred or ten thousand hospitalizations in intensive treatment units. If you listened to these doctors, you might say, "Actually, where can ten thousand intensive care be found?" One hundred and fifty intensive care units said expressly a moment ago that it might take after ten, fifteen, twenty days. For this reason, not only does it lead the country into this new lockdown, but it does not even let the results of the measures that the government has recently taken. So, today, the Greek society, the Greek real economy, is faced with a lockdown, because the government consciously decided both on the issue of the national health system and on the part of the public transport system and on the part of the schools, which are three basic, critical numerals of this effort, so that it could have achieved its own purely political choices, other than those recommended by scientists. Take care, ladies and gentlemen, today has opened up a whole range of issues. Mrs. Keramea to open the schools in September was the one who said that the scientists' decisions were unanimous to open the schools. And today, Mr. Mitsotakis said as if all of us had just begun our lives yesterday that the scientists' decision was not unanimous. You know, what people who don't have a chance to talk from this Step? They say that it is now the most incoherent government that could have in its hands the country at these critical moments of pandemic. You are told that you do not know what is happening to you anymore, that you have lost control and that you are driving society into a drama. But you say one day. But you say the second day. And other things you're doing on the third day. Mr Petsas said yesterday on 4 November: 'Attica is not close to the lockdown'. Mr Gerapitris, Mr Mitsotakis' right hand said on 3 November, two days: 'A universal lockdown decision'. In order not to mention these comic situations, however, which are deeply affected by a very critical relationship of confidence, especially in this matter, the government, the state, the state and the state of the state mechanism with the citizens at this time. Not to mention, then, in these comedy situations that took place in Thessaloniki on the occasion of the case of home distribution, the take away, the delivery, which one was announced, the other was taken back. Or the stadiums. Who will forget about the stadiums that came out to say that the competent ministers must have the fights with viewers so that they can also be forced, after one day, to withdraw it? So, here, we have the collapse of the government mechanism and the loss of citizens' confidence in this government at a critical moment in order to win this battle with this very difficult enemy and opponent that is the coronary. But if citizens call you an extremely incoherent government, are you incoherent why are you foolish or why do you have no brain? No, not at all. Very consciously, you're moving on. And you know, what is the Greek society's problem with the government of Mr. Mitsotakis? It is that since this coronary crisis broke out, it is a battle that will be judged in the field of public policies. In fact, the virus knows neither rich nor poor nor white nor black nor high nor young nor old. He's hitting wherever he finds. So the only defence that can be done against such a particular situation is the defence of public policies, namely public health policies, public transport policies, public policies in education. This is behind all your own explanation of your choice to go, as you go, without any support from the National Health System, without any support from the public transport system, without any support from the schools. In the end, you have made a profoundly decisive ideological decision. And the decision you have made, absolutely compatible with what you believe in the party that you are and with what you represent, is not to support, especially now that you have all the possibilities and no limitations from the European Union and from anywhere, these public policies in a permanent way. That's why you didn't make permanent recruitments to the National Health System. And that is why, today, the National Health System has reached the limits of the collapse as a result of your own policies. Mr Mitsotakis' government's responsibilities are gigantic. And if you think, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be possible this time to play the role of protecting the acceptance of his and the government's popularity, you are laughing at and misled. Because the Greek people have often shown that they have tolerance. He's got a good option. It has a good will to give room for trial to politicians, prime ministers, governments, parties, their politicians. But if he gets a mess of what he has to do with political forces, with governments and prime ministers who do not honor the confidence he has given them, then they are punishing him. And they are punishing very severely, especially when they see that, in the end, their misfortune is that hospitals are not banks, Minister of Justice. The media, unfortunately, are not banks for the Greek people. Schools, too, are not banks. Because if it were banks, the hospitals, if they were public transport banks, if they were schools banks, would not today bring this bill that speeds up the arrest of the first residence by the Greek people. You would not bring another bill dictated by the banks' legal offices, but you would have had it today and yesterday and the other day, and last month, it bears a bill to strengthen the national health system, to multiply permanent staff of doctors and nurses, to multiply public transport, so that you do not have children sitting in pieces, not only with more students per class - who have increased the number of students - but one side, in a country where otherwise, the basic rule for salvation towards this pandemic was the norm of social dismissal. And you have opened the schools. Today we find out that the Minister has falsely stated that the decisions of the Scientific Committee were unanimous and you opened the schools, making our children sit one at a distance of fifty centimeters from the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Comrade, finish up unless you want to get your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u116	Yes, I will take it, Mr President, to say a few words about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u117	Okay. Keep going, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u118	So, as far as the bill is concerned, I would like to say that what has been heard during the meetings of the standing committees, and today by our rapporteur, Mr Kalamatiano, but also by all the colleagues who have spoken - and not just by our party - from the whole of the opposition parties - I think they should normally make you think about you, Mr Minister, personally and for the government. You know, all this stays. All that stays!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u119	For all of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u120	For everyone, Minister, in particular for those who recommend legislation to the Greek Parliament, because all the rest also have a part of what we say is staying. But the law, if it's where they live. Now, you've even made a decision today - if you want, let me tell you anyway, you have been given a last chance today, because the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, the President of your Government, has announced that he is putting the country in a ban - to bring a bill that is made in conditions other than the ban announced. A fundamental political and social sensitivity would not have forced you to say that the vote on this bill is suspended, which was already adapted to a number of provisions that could work - many Members have told you - since the country would not have been banned? But today you are insisting here that this bill be passed on to the banks. At the same time, when you speed up the loss of the first residence for Greek women and Greeks, you take the initiative and - let me say this - you have the political courage - the courage to say so - to say that you are bringing in provisions that lead to the limitation of serious tax evasion cases, to tell you that it is not possible to ask the Greek Parliament to legislate explicitly, a specific provision for the secondment of one abroad with its wife. You have made Rusfetti, the client management of legislative power, not science, not just a university degree, but a postdoctoral. And, of course, this bar of unacceptable arrangements is culminated in your conscious choice to remove, in essence, the management of these criticals - and in the honour of the political world - the procedurals that exist in her hands, which have to do with either NOVARTIS or other assumptions from Mrs Toulupakis. Essentially that is what you are doing on the pretext of unifying the prosecutors, which has repeatedly been said to be a choice that anyone could discuss and agree. I remember that during the pre-review sittings - and there are also members here among us - even Mr Papagelopoulos at some point said: 'Let me tell you what I think. I too think it is more appropriate to unite." But you here do not promote unification. Here you are promoting the liquidation of Mrs Tulupaki in the patterns of liquidation on the basis of which the Romanian prosecutor, who today is very well aware of what price she enjoys at European Union level, has been cleared. And how does that prove? It turns out, firstly, because if this was a fundamental, a substantial political decision of yours, why did you be late for 15 months to enter Parliament? If the prosecutors had to be consolidated, why did they have to be consolidated now? And if the prosecutors had to be consolidated, why did they have to be stopped - why is it not only Mrs Toulupakis, is the economic prosecutor, and what ends their terms? By who? From the legislative authority, which he's doing? Basically, he intervenes in a raw and unobtrusive way in the judiciary. Because Mrs Tulupaki and the financial prosecutor in this post have not been decided on the basis of a government's decision. On the basis of judgments of the Judges themselves, Mrs Toulupakis and the Advocate General have also taken over. So there's something you want to catch up with. So what you're cutting is not the institutional unification of the two prosecutors. You want to take these forms out of the hands of these prosecutors. And that, of course, is what you would say, in the face of everything you have done in these cases, yet another small stone, which will in no way be forgiven by the Greek people when the time comes, the conditions will ripe and we will reach the end of this course. I will conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this: Today it is not enough that the country entered a new regime of banning, essentially, in terms of both the functioning of society and the economy, it is not enough that we heard a Prime Minister without a trace of self-criticism, with arrogant arrogance, with narcissism - to understand, he spoke of Professor Tsiodra next to him and said ten times, "Sotiris will tell you" -...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u121	But please, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u122	I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. And less. Thirty seconds. But we had more. We had a government, which even today did not feel the need to announce a courageous, brave support programme for the National Health System, a health system for which Mr Petsas said that, "If we had heard SYRIZA about the ICM, we would have thrown tens of millions of euros away." This was the monumental statement of the Mitsotakis Government. "It was money thrown away..." he said - "Strengthening the intensive care units" without which many people now die, many of our fellow citizens. However, we also had the recognition by Mr Mitsotakis today that, "37 billion euros are available, which he will be able to use, and so don't worry about it." These 37 billion euros, which when Mr Stavros sat in this position a few days ago, in the motion of censure we submitted, do you know what he said? I have the minutes in front of me. "Mr. Tsipras, you believe in waste of money. Hear what he said to me..." - says in addressing us - 'Mr. Tsipras 28 September. Mr President, I do not know if I have informed you of this. Mr. Tsipras called on me to waste money to save society." To waste money! I'll submit it to the Minutes. What money is that? The 37 billion euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u123	And this is what you're closing down, Mr. Ragosi. You're far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like to inform you and the House that there are legislative improvements. I did not take the floor, precisely so that all the legislative improvements can be made available to Members and to prevent the economy of time, because this concern was first expressed by the President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, on ne bis in idem. I would like to make it clear to you that, despite the fact that it was absolutely clear to us and would like a very extreme interpretation in order to see it otherwise, the transitional provision is differentiated so that there is no suspicion of derogating criminal offences. He's at the disposal of colleagues. I'll take the floor soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u127	I will call, as I have already announced, on the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mrs. Evangelia Likoules, to speak for twelve minutes. Since, of course, she's also telling me if she'll get her denture. And then the speech has been made by the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, why don't we take it alternately?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u129	Under the Rules of Procedure, because I see colleagues protesting - it is not my issue - it is a matter of the parliamentary representatives. Here you go, Mr. Liikoli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister and the Professor a little while ago announced the country's general lockdown, which the media had already announced yesterday. That is how I will tell them, because I have not yet acquired such intimacy, so that I can call them "Kyriakos" and "Sotiris", as truly impressive in such an announcement both made them. Obviously, the critical moment has not been understood exactly what it means to the Greek people and the majority of them, who are now numb at the corner and are thinking. Our President, the President of the Change Movement, the Fofi Gennimata, commenting on this interview of the two, said that, unfortunately today, we have a transition from "seeing and doing" to "do not know what will take us dawn" and that, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely serious. The country's overall lockdown is now a fact. It is an anticipated dramatic end to a battle that the country is fighting with the pandemic and at this stage at the beginning of the second wave of pandemic, unfortunately it is a battle that has lost. It's a battle your government has lost. The General Lockdown Communication creates new data on society and the economy. It's over and over! We are not going to set up a relay in the abundant hospital space to talk about the government's failed strategy to deal with the pandemic, nor are we going to scoop over the pile of people who left the coronary. It doesn't fit us either in style or morality. We lament the great losses and send out a message of support from Parliament's plenary today and support for all those who are fighting for intensive action. We are with them, we are with them, we give strength from our strength, courage from our courage to all and we commit ourselves with our President and each of us, the Members of the Change Movement, that no one will be left alone! The Movement insists firmly that it be the progressive political force that with positions and suggestions cares about the place and people, but first of all about people. People's folkism in the pandemic is as repulsive as the deadly virus itself. That's enough! In relation to the battle of pandemic, today we must calmly with realism and political honesty your Government, Minister, make certain assumptions. We have a lack of clear, elementary strategy. Giving a battle and not winning it is human and politically acceptable. But not going to battle at all, not giving it up and losing it, when you count victims, human lives, you have no right to do so. It is not just a crime - you know it better as our Minister of Justice - it is crime too. If you let me die in the intensive, because you don't have a bed to put me in, then you're a crime - just like that! - and indeed, when there is the experience of the first wave that taught us a great deal, which scared us very much, but which made us learn a great deal, which the citizens have disciplined and put back on. They are not bad citizens, they are not suddenly irresponsible citizens. Citizens put their backs, they went bankrupt, they put on a lock, many were depressed, they haven't been up yet, but they've endured and disciplined. How, then, has all this valuable time been exploited by you to do what you had as a political and moral debt toward disciplined and legitimate citizens? You've wasted valuable time, Prime Minister! You have to admit it! It is politically masculine to go out today and say "I had to take the measures earlier, so I do not give the Minutes of the infectious and the experts, because that is what they were saying to me". You built your throne, Prime Minister, on the success of the first period, which I was the first to recognise from this Step public recognition that it was a success, not as the Qualified Opposition said you failed. But what happened next? You have been snugly laid on your throne, crowned with the laurels of polling, which have brought you first in all discreetly and have not even been able to deal with the great and great things, such as the establishment of a strategic pandemic response plan. You opened the border without strict health protocols. You were photographed in the enchanting Santorini, quiet and safe, you enjoyed Boris Johnson's dad at the magical Pelion eating an american carpet, while his son was diagnosed with a coronary, and you all experienced a political spa of wellness and relaxation together. And then the relaxation came the chaos. Two 'ha', together with which they did not make us funny, made us 'ah and bax' for the people. And the strategic plan you didn't have is very simple. You told us that you were going to strengthen the ESS - our ESS - that you put it in the front line. Just before February you buried it - I remind you - and said "Who? Private initiative, PPP and see how the private person will take all of this mani to host with it." The ESS, our ESS, what we inspired and founded is now in the front line. And as far as we're concerned, you've got the private sector back in the foam, nowhere in this story you didn't put it, you've given him a deposit, but also because you're preparing him several gifts I'm going to say below. Did you support the ICUs? We don't even know where they went. We asked you over and over and you don't answer how donation money was used to build a IF. The meths you made aren't even worthy of speech. Last March, when Italy welcomed the pandemic, it almost collapsed. Then I remind you that the statistic said that 12.8 beds at that time had per 100 thousand inhabitants, while we now have ten per 100 thousand inhabitants. The public health system was abandoned almost consciously, then. Without investments in the public sector, you are still carrying out your private initiative. What did you tell us about the tests all over the country? I see here my colleagues in the health sector, Mr Poula, Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Mulkiotis, who told you about the tests then again and again. So, tell us the tests you didn't admit now, why are you running around like crazy to do four and five thousand a day in Thessaloniki? How did the Serres leave the level ‘1’ at ‘4’? How did Thessaloniki do so well and now it's not doing? How did Larissa, my constituency, have been fine and now she's not well at all? So how did all this happen? You fought, too, to convince us that it was not public transport and schools. Of course, you were swallowed there - to say it - the reports and live connections, that's where you really got them. When bourgeois passengers as sardines stacked in buses, you told them "but they were to blame, stuck with each other because they didn't wear masks" and wore them, and then you said "because they don't open the windows" and the windows that were closed for security reasons were opened, they were glued again. Finally, sardineisation seems to have been the problem, not the mask, Prime Minister and Minister. Schools? You refused that schools have any, nothing to do with the pandemic, and now you're closing high school and school and leaving school. Do they have or don't they? Your doctrine, too, was that "we are the best of all, the other countries are much worse than us." Another big lie! Are we in the same country all we have since the weather and the others have been wintering since August? Are we the same countries as the infrastructure we have in relation to the other countries? Do we have the same climate change, the same difficulties, or do we have the same social structures as the third age? And of course, what I can't hear in the last few days is that it's all the irresponsible citizens and the sprayed people. There is no individual responsibility in the country, it is the kiosks, the theatres, the secrets, the obvious parties, the crowd in the squares. Well, words clean and staggered: The crowd is crowded. It's over and over! There's no good crowding and bad crowding. It's not good your crowding in public transport that you can't deal with and now you're doing notices to hire people, eight months later. It's not bad crowding in the squares that the bottom of the scripture you can control. The responsible people of spring became irresponsible. How did this conversion really happen? Should you look into the word 'confidence', that confidence in the government no longer exists, has it been permanently lifted? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] But we ask for an answer, Minister, and Prime Minister, to the disclosure and document of the experts who published 'SEA' yesterday, which at least on a personal level, I have to admit from the Step of the House that it shocked me, when it shows from the statistics that simple-paid beds mainly result in older people over eighty years, that is, the elderly over eighty years are not assigned to the ICUs. Are they selected? We're asking the government. Are the elderly selected and not counted in the METH beds? So you're pre-selecting? Answer this document and this post, please. And, of course, this whole situation in terms of pandemic and economy creates a big question, both yesterday and today after your announcements, what is your strategic plan for the padlocks that have entered and the truly definitive packages of businesses that come into focus, entertainment, tourism and culture. The situation is in the "intensive" of the economy and it gets worse day by day. The proposal from the Change Movement for the focus has already been made by the Secretary of our parliamentary group. We have published a specific programme of EUR 1 billion, spread over a timetable and with a budget, because that is exactly what we want the proposal of the Change Movement to be, to help overcome the situation. We are not interested in conquering the government or, as I said before, in the body of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the suffering of the country is much. The question is whether the government can deal with them reliably and reliably. The American elections we have dealt with, but the pandemic and the general lockdown, although today, you know, are recorded historically. Like today, November 5, '40, Roosevelt, November 5, '68, Nixon, November 5, 1996, Bill Clinton was the presidents who gave the succession, we hope, to Biden. I say this from the Step forward, because it is precisely because we have to hope there, perhaps, for a better relationship which will mean things and developments in the Eastern Mediterranean for the country. In any case, Europe gives its own battle on the globe, within the world map, its own battle, and with the terrorism that appears as domino after France and Austria, which concerns us, but it also gives the great battle with Greek-Turkish relations, Minister, because Oruc Reis is now acting as if it were a ferry boot from Arkitsa in Ethiopia. So that should be very much considered by our Parliament, very seriously, your Government. So today in this context, in a political landscape very intensely, you bring a bill, which I do not know is true if you will bring it, knowing the general lockdown. That is what I wanted to ask you personally, Minister. I don't know if you'd bring in an accelerating bill and fine process, I'm saying. That is why I say 'and good'. It's not an acceleration. You picked a little piece. You took the part that was of interest to you, you did a lot of fun toward the banks again. So you took this piece and excluded it, put it into a 'trex, save' process, under the responsibility of lawyers and borrowers, without allowing the borrower, and the comfort of time and the possibility within coronary conditions, to collect the documents, to identify the problems that his case has and to respond with sufficient time and effort. Everyone today at first hears about the Katseli law. I'd like to make this comment, too. Well, you didn't vote for him. Now bless him, as you bless so much. The law of PASOK means. No Katseli law would exist, no Ragonis law would exist, if there were no great democratic party with its ideologies, which always creates legislation, which you invoke, of course, in order to improve. But here, Minister, what is happening is that in any case you are strengthening the trend towards the introduction of krone auctions. Unfortunately, while the focus collapses as many as eighty thousand entrepreneurs, as well as three hundred and thirty thousand workers in the area are in despair and those associated with them, because they are not few, such as logistics such as domestic winemakers, accountants, agricultural producers and farmers. So everyone is hurt, and unfortunately you are also in charge of this crisis, and you are going to add another crisis. The fact that you want to get material, as you say, and create a non-sufficient landscape now in the pacifist courts is a reason why you are not being convincing today and how you bring it and the way you choose it and as you "screw it through the pot", to say it in the populace. So you take this and you make it your flag, while speeding up justice for us who are thirty-year-old lawyers know how it is done, Minister. We know how you can do it. So ask us if you want to. You are actually consulting with us and not with us as you are consulting. Come and ask us how we accelerated our lives in courtrooms, fighting lawyers and not collar lawyers. So fly the ball well to the borrower and his lawyer and, of course, to the unconstitutionality and the highly problematic provision, it is evident that the matter will be resolved by subtracting. What are you doing? You hope that you will be rejected or filed or no one will care or anyone will be able to follow this process and that is why you choose this way. So all we can say at the moment, Mr President, is that the auctions are being suspended explicitly by your own ministerial decision throughout Greece, following the Prime Minister's announcement on the generalised lockdown. I want two things, however, to point out, Minister, and I want you to hear this because it is for you. In January 2020, Minister, I asked a timely question about your responsibility for the judiciary in actions concerning the families of Holocaust victims from the German and Italian Occupation. In these, Minister, you have responded and answered to the House live, and I have recorded your speech, as the inhabitants of the region know it, about the historic, martyr Domenic of Ellas, that you will be positive. You told us you'd take care of it in a while. We're coming back. The Change Movement, to see that we don't, Minister, and I'm sorry that you don't hear me now, because I wanted you to listen to me,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u131	Mrs. Liikali, continue because you have already passed your tritology on the basis of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u132	You weren't here. I said I'd get my secondary time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u133	I'm saying you're in your tritology. Listen to me. You've been talking for eighteen minutes now. That's what I'm telling you. The time you are entitled under the Rules of Procedure is nineteen minutes. That's why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you for the reminder, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u135	Otherwise you have the right to exhaust your tritology. No one forbids that. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u136	I do not think it is universal, Mr President, if you will allow me, on your side, while speaking and addressing the person of the Minister, you must discuss with him and not take away the time. It's not right. It is not institutionally right on your part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u137	The Minister didn't know the halls. The Minister addressed the Bureau because he wants to speak himself. And he contacted the Bureau on when to speak. He was listening very well to everything you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, take away your microphone time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u139	I'll keep him for you. Don't worry, Mrs. Lionel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u140	Very good. Minister, I was telling you that in January 2020 we asked you in this Chamber a timely question about the martyr Domenican that suffered a holocaust, a village of Elassona that was levelled. I would remind you that you have then brought the order for the law to be enforced in the actions of recog­nition. In one night you brought this, I don't want to remember, I don't want to remind you. But you already find this in front of you, because the Greek courts are slowly deciding on one by one that the provision you have brought is unconstitutional. People are currently claiming compensation for the disaster, the holocaust suffered by Italian occupation troops. You promised George that you'd bring it in as a setup. We suggested you bring it in. Unfortunately, you did not bring it as I see it today, Minister, while we first place the signature of our President and the whole of our parliamentary group on this amendment and formally submit it to your Ministry. I invite you to accept that at the moment, because it is fair, but it is also moral. To God, we're talking about compensation from occupation troops! What else can I say about this only too much? Finally, you have hidden in the bill - I do not see Mr Theodorikos here, I do not see him where he is - the laundry device. Powder, whiter than white! You almost got us crazy 15 days ago when we told you that you brought a device that is "washed" essentially everything, a device larger than Penis! Then you told us that we were not talking about this but about something else and that we did not understand well, because they are only the ones that have been audited by the Court of Auditors. We've got it all right. Columbia is the scientific committee. He's coming and what's he telling you? What did you do now? So that's not what you've done. You have brought a so-called interpretative provision to Article 68, which you have interpreted what you brought last time, the "washer" of all kinds of crimes and disciplinary offences of the authoritarians and you say that "only those who fraudulently and only those that have been said come...". And the Scientific Committee of Parliament comes to you and says: but what do you say? This is a device that shrinks the previous one, so the other is better and the other works. What are you going to do with it? Where is the Interior Minister? Who will support it, Minister? You will not tell us what you are answering the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and that we were finally right? And what's SYRIZA gonna tell us? You also voted 'yes' and the 'yes' JRC voted. What are you going to say today about that? This is second laundry, bigger than the first. Laundry in the laundry! But, you know, that even has one more value. It comes to build something that is already built, to tell us that 'no, we pour it out and take it back', and it makes it even worse, because we all know the basic legal principle, that the more favourable provision applies, that is, the first one that you voted on, which is 'washed' all but. Sadly, however, such 'blacks' illegally opened in your structure, Minister, are ultimately the ones that undermine the static nature of the building itself, and that will be your great political risk from now on. Will you last? You're already triangulating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u141	As has been announced, the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution will follow Mr. Villardos. Until the Step, Mr. Villiardos, could the Special Rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Konnakas, be ahead of him for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u142	Let him take the lead, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u143	Here, you have the floor for a minute, Mrs. Konnakka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I wanted the floor because when Mr Vorides presented the amendment on animal abuse, I was not in the Chamber and I do not want there to be any misinterpretation of the position of the JRC. We are assuming that we will vote for the tightening up of the criminal treatment of those who abuse animals. It's a start stop. After all, we were the only parliamentary group to vote to introduce animal protection into the Constitutional Review, which was not done by the other parties, and which is why, while there was a proposal in the Proposed House, it did not go through the revised articles of the Constitutional Review. I was going to put myself in my dentistry, but I will make a point of making sure that the Minister hears it, whether it will be corrected by the vote. They insist that the pro-zootic organisations for the matter referred to in Article 19(2), that the way it is formulated really allows the animal torturer to be able to pay and regain the property of the animal until the decision has been finalised. We believe that this possibility needs to be removed, because it reminds us of the logic of 'polluter pays', that you can pollute and pay, which is to date, and that the provision must be formulated as follows, that anyone who abuses an animal is obliged to cover the costs of the treatment and the costs of the animal until it is adopted, does not allow for the temporary removal of the animal, but for the definitive, as far as those who abuse the animals and our proposal are the costs paid by the fines, can also be for other needs of strays, such as sterilisation, feeding and others. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u145	Good. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the decision of the 'lock' of our country will prove disastrous for our economy without any overcompensation. Its most likely motive is to hide the government's wrong policies at all levels, behind the pandemic, resulting in the deaths of more than poverty, bankruptcies, unemployment and so on, rather than the virus. It leads us, literally closed in our homes, in the cliff and in chaos, only by the Prime Minister, without even asking the House, as is happening in all the favoured states and depriving us of our personal freedoms. It is truly sad for Greece and the Greeks, their complete disappointment by the government and especially by the Prime Minister. I'm coming to the bill now. As usual, it is a set of provisions behind which the violent closure of the Katseli law cases is hidden, which, in our view, lies within the limits of unconstitutionality. That is why the Minister took care to ensure his constitutionality from the Ice City Court, while his testimony immediately after the bankruptcy law - "excruciation" proves that there is an attempt to seize the Greeks' homes by means of the urgent procedure, of course at the request of the creditors who faithfully serve the government. In particular, with the termination of Law No.3869/2010, the Katseli Act, i.e. with Article 1 of this Decision, will accelerate the proceedings in progress with a view to their completion in 2021. The law covered the two thousand debtors with loans totalling EUR 17 billion, and today there have been forty-two thousand seven hundred nine applications worth EUR 56 billion, as we will submit later in the Minutes. Obviously for the banks, which have already depreciated over 50% with taxpayers' money, the figure is minimal, while the houses of all Greeks would have been saved with much less money than we have given to recapitalise them, more than 60 billion if our proposal, namely the United States model of 1934, had been adopted. In any case, in the midst of a pandemic and the second "lock" of our economy, the government is actually adopting a measure of analgesia, knowing very well that it is not the citizens who are responsible for their inability to serve their loans. The three consecutive Memorandums and the PSI, through which households and businesses were bankrupt, have been reduced by the welfare state, etc., without unfortunately doing anything with the public debt, which has also increased. We are experiencing today the fourth memorandum, which is simply not accompanied by a loan contract, and it will follow a much more painful fifth, since public liquidity is negligible and our economy runs from bad to worse. In this respect, apart from the unthinkable twin deficits and debts, households lost EUR 3.9 billion in the second quarter of 2020. In other words, their incomes have fallen again by 11%, while according to the EVEA, eight out of ten companies have fallen again in the first half of the year, as well as many other creepy features, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. A new wave of bankruptcies and red loans of EUR 8 to 10 billion is therefore expected to be expected during the Bank of Greece. In our view, much more. It is therefore reasonable to wonder whether it is time for the loans to be cleared up and the consequences of society, which is already being burdened both economically and psychologically. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will also take my tritology. Unfortunately, the answer is affirmative when it comes to the completion of the robbery of the Greeks, since the new crisis will help speculators to take their homes with the help of the former and current government as theirs. In order not to remain in the words and to understand that the state has continued, as long as it governs, subordinated to Chancellor - "internal troika", New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK, KINAL, in the sixth evaluation of the European Union of May 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, that is, on page 20 - which we will table in the Minutes - the following are written: "The authorities were committed to promoting the speeding up of the clearing of the red household loans and to replacing judicial procedures with an electronic platform". Replacement of judges with an electronic platform, which will supplement SYRIZA's electronic auctions which, as well as written in the evaluation, must be improved so that seizures and auctions from the pandemic are not affected. If this is not a crime and the full abolition of the rule of law, then what is it? In any case, everything will be done by pressing a button, while in today's bill there are arrangements that facilitate it, such as Article 29, where "gypsies" can now be updated with photos from a distance. We're talking about total misery. In addition, the sixth assessment states that the liquidation of the loan guarantees will be accelerated, because they are a brake on speculators, noting that there are guarantees for such loans of EUR 15.3 billion, as we will present in the Minutes, along with other creepy details. In the Seventh Review now - it is better to read the evaluations, it is better informed than in the budgets and bills - on page 14, which we will also submit in the Minutes: 'The authorities will present Parliament with measures that will speed up the liquidation of the red loans of households that have increased due to the closure of the courts and the pandemic'. They will introduce automatic resetting of remote hearings through an electronic platform as an online simplification. Also to check the eligibility of loans and filter the strategic misappropriations from credit institutions. We stress, automatically electronically from both credit institutions, that is to say banks themselves! It would be impossible for us to think about it. We do not agree anywhere, and it requires completely twisted minds. In simple terms, they are pretext for poor payers, as they themselves define, to introduce procedures that harm everyone. Known and filthy trick! At the hearing of the bodies, and the representative of the Association of Greek Banks and Chairman of the Management Committee for Non-Service Loans, Mrs.Johnou, established the strategic malpractices to 40% of the total, while the Chairman of the National Federation of Protection Associations - allegedly protected! - Consumers, Mr Cretan, at 10% to 15%, saying that many rejections are due to evidence provided by banks, as we will testify in the Minutes. Of course, there is no cost forecasts from the General Accounting Office of the State. So either he has failed or has agreed to control everything by the banks themselves, decide for themselves who will go bankrupt, who will be led to the liquidation of his assets and who in an out-of-court settlement. We would like to refer to another article, Article 42, which is probably about banks and is photographic. We're likely to be talking about Piraeus Bank, but there's no time. In conclusion, apart from the robbery of the Greeks, there are many other toys at their expense, which, unfortunately, we with ten MPs have no possibility of preventing. But we can control the government and tell the Greeks the truth so they can be informed and try to avoid their total impoverishment. All this, of course, does not mean that Greece cannot succeed, even as its governments have done. Of course, it can only be enough for a competent government with vision, with objectives and the right method to do so, without constantly succumbing to the Germans and constantly burdening its citizens with taxes, with bureaucracy and with the overcrowded public and so on, which are not at all, but at all liberal, and without being proud of the market in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u147	Mr Mulkiotis now has the floor from the Change Movement, and then the Minister of Justice Mr. Tsiaras will follow. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by reading and studying the positions of the Minister of Justice at the meetings of the committee responsible and the negative attitude of the Opposition on this bill, I would like to say that the Minister is right. I agree with him because there are obviously ideological issues in the whole process. Indeed, political currents, whatever their mark, are neither invention nor invention. Political geography is exist and strong over time and is translated into political practices. The Right, the Left, the Centre, with any internal issues, reflect beliefs, ideas, principles and values that exist in the wider social body. The New Democracy, the right-wing party, we know it well and she knows it very well. The so-called'reform government' of Mr Mitsotakis is not, nor will anything ever happen, because it cannot be, apart from a loyal expression of certain interests in our country, which can only offer a specific orientation. We saw it the day before yesterday with the Finance Code bill, and today we are seeing it with Law 3869 and the amendment relating essentially to the whole procedure and the method of annulment of Law 3869. It proves it daily with every piece of legislation, and it also proves it with the draft legislation under discussion which, as the Minister has told us, is trying to solve a pathetic nature of the past. When does he do it? While the country has been in a total standard lockdown for seven months, while a large proportion of workers have been on job suspension for seven months and rotating work, while the food workers - tourism - live with unemployment benefits, while the unemployment is on the verge of tens of thousands of businesses. And how does he do that, ladies and gentlemen? By setting the target of the highly indebted borrowers who succeeded in resorting to the provisions of Law 3869. Today he is dealing with borrowers as second-class citizens, but also with fraudsters and fraudsters until proven guilty. It is clear that the government now, in conjunction with the new bankruptcy framework, complements the attack on weak borrowers as well. He attacks all those who were victims of the economic crisis, lost their jobs or cut their wages and pensions and had taken up loans by counting and planning another procedure. Once again, however, the State’s inability to ensure conditions for fair trial and for its completion in reasonable time due to permanent deficiencies in the positions of judges and officials is transferred to the hands of the citizens and lawyers by subjecting them to additional costs. As if it were the responsibility of the citizen or his lawyer, because the court did not have a shorter trial when the citizen sought to settle debts and as if he did not want to finish the procedure himself to continue his life. As such, it is the citizen who was not finally able to identify the cases at home in reasonable time on the basis of the previous legislation, which amended Law 3869 with the amendments of 2015. Minister, in 2015 an effort had been made to redefined applications from house, but the peace courts - for example, I say to you - Croatia and Nice have not yet been redefined because they have not been able to do so. Today we are talking about the Haillands Peace Court has not even redefined the applications made in April that were void due to quarantine. The Chania Peace Court, today we are talking, has never redefined the applications that were to be discussed after 2024. How will these be done and how will they respond without a given infrastructure, which we know is not there? In addition, updates shall not be made for the first time. You know that. The one that happened completely failed. And why did he fail? He has failed very clearly because there are no judges to judge. That's the big problem. And of course this famous platform, for which you are being taken as government, failed. And the highly indebted households that were previously and the platform for the extrajudicial mechanism failed. The majority of applications are tried in the pacifist courts. In this bill, citizens' right to legal protection is abolished and the principles of equality, legal certainty and fair trial are abolished. The principle of equality of the parties is clearly violated. Paragraph 23 of Article 1, Minister, states that the provision shall take precedence over any other provisions of the civil procedure. I fully agree with my colleague Mrs Adamopoulou, as was put in the committee and today in her speech and, of course, with the views of both our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative. There are fundamental violations of the Code of Civil Procedure. We have forgotten here today what we have learned so many years and what we have experienced in practical application in the courts. It is a trick for us to come and legislate with such processes. We're in breach of the law. Whether you like it or not, there's nothing up. They're scanning everything. In any case, I would like to say the opinion of the Ice Bay plenary on which you are actually taking it. Shall I say on page 17? That the article on this request for redefinition is proportionate - you have heard! - 226(5) of the Code of Civil Procedure. Well, it cannot be tolerated by anyone who has at least elementary ties with the political trial in the courts, with the fighting lawyer. It is a procedural right, whereas Article 1 of the bill refers to a procedural obligation. We do not share these as much as the opinion of the Ice Bay House plenary. And I would like to say another thing that the opinion says: 'The charge of cases to each peacekeeper should be made in proportion to the number of peacekeepers, which makes it necessary to cover existing empty organic positions'. He said, instead of saying 'it makes it necessary', that 'it requires vacancies to be covered'. If there is no condition of covering empty organic positions, Minister? The cases will be left undecided. So what did you do? Nothing. Not to say what's commonly called. We're not doing anything. We remain the same and we come again and say that we have a thousand other two problems. Mr Minister, I think it is unfortunate that the views expressed, as they have been expressed, in relation to the references to the plenary opinion. I'll say the order's broken. It's specific. It is said that according to the Code of Civil Procedure - so we have learned, so it applies to all manuals and to all collective volumes of civil procedure - the principle that bringing an action is violated means that there is irreversible jurisdiction. What right are you doing today? What are you coming to get us to do here? Does the House have to legislate differently from what we've known for so many years? We're gonna have two yards and two stations? Where did we find this, how do we proceed and continue? The oral procedure is being destroyed. It's only written. Question: Protests of fraudulent bankruptcy, non-permanent non-payment, non-true statement, how will they be answered? With the writings? Oh, no. With the orals. How's that gonna happen? With jury statements. Nowhere is provided in the juror bill. How many jury statements do you want? Mia? Two? Three? Five? By the hundred days we're five jury statements with the suggestions, three with the addition. Here we want and burden the borrowers with a thousand or two other problems. I would ask - and I conclude, Mr President - that Article 68 of the bill be withdrawn. He's a dork. Remove it as early as it is. Article 32 with the legislative improvement you have brought remains Article 32. The President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors said: Specify it. They're in danger of deleting a thousand issues. And I conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. I would like to refer to the amendment which comes and concerns the committee on heavy and unhealthy professions. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many members of the committee are there? Seventeen members and alternate members, with the Registrars. Do you know how much money they want to get now? 35 thousand euros. Do you know when this committee started its work? Since 2015. Do you want to give her ten more years to live? Mercy! It can't be that heavy and unhealthy stay in the void and we sit there looking at them and giving extensions. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Change Movement cannot give consent to this process. It's unacceptable. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Amendment No 545/40 removes the third and fourteenth wages for workers indirectly. There is absolutely no protection for seasonal workers in tourism and foodism, and in any case it is half an amendment for half a job and half a life. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Tsiaras has the floor. Wait a minute, Minister, get the Step ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, has the speaking time changed from six to seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u151	Oh, no. I just didn't know that, and I put on Mr. Mulkiot's speaking time seven minutes. After the Minister, the other speakers will be six minutes plus one, with a tolerance, as decided by what I saw in the Minutes, Mr Buga, this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u152	In order to plan, Mr President, and colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u153	It's true what's decided. I just didn't know. He was the first speaker on the list when I took over and put the seven minute. Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand I had to wait for the legislative improvements to be found at the Step, but, of course, also the well-known first ten Members of Parliament, since I think we should keep the measure of a formal procedure which I think in a very specific way gives the prestige and also the essence of Parliament's debate. Parliamentary representatives of the parties were of course preceded, but I understand that because of the pressure and because of the events or, possibly, because of the interest of today's day, there was one thing to precede their positions of the Minister's speech. However, I think the first comment should be on today's particular day. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine we are all aware that we are faced with the second wave of the pandemic, a wave which has a much more aggressive approach, unfortunately with a very large number of cases and a very large number of imports into the hospitals of the country. The Prime Minister's letter, in addition to the measures announced, shows that the government is serious and accountable to an issue which I think concerns all Greek citizens and is obviously not a matter for political or micro-party confrontation. We are faced with a very high risk, and perhaps the visual through which we come to see specific issues needs to be differentiated. I will not repeat the reference to a well-known reality that has to do with the fact that, compared with all the other European countries, Greece has much better features and much better numbers. I will tell you, however, that there is a great need to deal with an issue that concerns the very lives of people, which is the ultimate value of all of us, and we must show both responsibility and seriousness and very much attention. In any other case, we will obviously be accountable to the eyes of the Greek citizens and obviously the contradictions which have been heard by many of the speakers who have been at this step earlier, will be the subject of a more general debate or, if you like, of inconsistencies between people in the political system and who do not see what to do at all. Finally, we are in favour of Lockdown, ladies and gentlemen, or are we in favour of a rhetoric that can be developed in the context of a populism that we must give to everyone, but human life is worthwhile when we mention it but does not have any value when we have to take the measures to safeguard it? This is, I think, a more general reflection that should concern us. He needs seriousness and responsibility. They don't need much. We must do everything possible as a Greek state to protect the supreme health of all Greek citizens. And if we don't understand that all this evolution is hitting our door, I imagine that all of you, all of you have people in your nearby surroundings that have been affected by the coronary. You see, it's a case that comes and touches us, which is close to us. There are issues which, I repeat, need to be seen from another perspective rather than from a point of view of the opportunity to politically confront what everyone thinks, what should be done and where we should go. There's a guiding factor in the government's choices. The guideline concerns recommendations, exhortations, scientific community directives. We have kept it from the first moment, we are still keeping it. And I think that today's practical presence of the Prime Minister and his reference to the specific issues of the measures to be taken from now on was simply a goal of being able to see seriously and responsibly at the moment. Really, what do you think? Is it not a more general reflection on the national economy about the measures we take on the coronary? Do you think there is a man in the government who does not realize that there is a huge issue that we need to deal with? But what should be our priority? Is there any other priority than the value of human life? Here we must stand, I repeat, in a very serious way, all against an overall effort that we call on Greek society to do in the next few years. As far as the draft law is concerned, the debate that has taken place in the relevant parliamentary committee I think that once again we have been able to understand how we are all approaching specific issues which are basically the main area of the debate - confrontation on the Greek political scene. I personally asked you of the Justice Ministry's bills to be a parliamentary exercise. I believe in the independence of justice. I believe that we must all do that we can preserve the independence of justice as a basic pillar, the basic power of our own democratic culture. And in this way I have asked for your contribution and your proposals and, of course, to a very large extent, the possibility of bringing together bills. Do you know what I have even now, after the previous four meetings have been completed in the relevant Parliamentary Committee and almost through our debate in the Greek Parliament's plenary? That each of the Members or representatives of the parties is creating an opinion before the debate begins, it has some specific positions which do not change them, even when they have been said and when the very opposite arguments have been put forward. Would you like, ladies and gentlemen, to see what the Katchelis Act is all about to put all this in order? In 2010, we have the notorious n.3869. This is an excellent law, based on a large part of Greek society in order to protect itself from justice, but much more to give a real opportunity to people who were in real need. How is that law evolving from there? In 2013 with Law 4161 begins - I will be honest and will not hide behind my finger - the first blow of the Katseli law. Let me remind fellow SYRIZA Members that at that time Mr Rupakiotis was the Minister of Justice. You know that Mr. Rupakiotis - and Mr. Kouvelis - did not give up either on the eruption of the Katseli law or on the anti-racist law, so that we can clear things up and know where we are. On top of that, ladies and gentlemen, Mr.4336/2015, at the legislative initiative of the previous government, Mr.466/2015, at the legislative initiative of the previous government, Mr. 4592/2019 and, of course, Mr.4605/2019, actually stopped the protection of the first residence in the law of Katseli. I'm telling all this to put things in order. However, that is not enough, we also have a follow-up which is very interesting and which, of course, is about the fact that the previous government with its own commitment in an earlier period of time, which is mentioned in June 2018, is committed to the European institutions that all outstanding cases of the Katseli Act will have been cleared up by 2021. Because that is why there was a very questionable question, or rather some people were questioning and said nothing, the first thing I will submit in the minutes is the “Report of the ESM, European Commission, July 2018”, which clearly states that there is the Greek Government's commitment that it will actually be a loss, that it will eliminate all the outstandingities of the Katseli Act not later than 2021. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That's as far as we know what's going on. So the debate on the resignation of the previous government and the current Capacity Opposition of the current government begins on what we have been doing for a year and a half. Really, ladies and gentlemen! What did you do a year? Tell me if you did anything, as I imagine you all realise that all legal proceedings require time. The judicial procedures, ladies and gentlemen, are not magically carried out, it is not by pressing a button. Don't you know how justice works? So did you do something to prepare for the next three years which created a specific commitment to any Greek state, since the previous government had committed itself to the institutions? You obviously didn't do anything and you know it very well. If you had done anything, you'd come and move the paper to me and tell me that you were doing something. I don't hide it from you that it was a very difficult exercise for all my partners at the Justice Department. We have made a great effort to find a procedural framework which, on the one hand, leaves no room for doubting constitutional issues, but on the other hand also to respond to this specific solution. So what happens to make it clear once and for all because I think they are repeated by this Step, which I will say once again that they have nothing to do with reality. We have said so and have repeated that the substance of Law 3869/2010 is not in fact changed. The essential rights of borrowers who have appealed to the courts to protect their first residence shall not be altered. All these imported regulations leave the substantive rules of Law 3869 intact, but they had already been put into legislative intervention, as I have said, in particular through the development of the case-law that existed. The only thing that is being attempted by the proposed legislation we are debating today is the quicker decision-making of the cases. And I would like to assure you that these arrangements ensure the borrower's right to assess his case by the natural judge, of course, in a reasonable period of time, as laid down in Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights for the reasonable duration of the trial. Does it really honor the Greek state to have cases that have been introduced in 2015 and to take a court date in 2028, in 2029, in 2030, in 2032? Where does that stand, ladies and gentlemen? Let me get this straight. And of course, should anyone not see the right of the real beneficiary of the protection of the first residence in a previous arrangement? I told you last time that, by the representatives of borrowers, the only one who was not a legal representative of the rest said that you should help us, we want to get rid of this bad reality. Do you think he had anything to do with us? I assure you, no. I've never seen him before. So let's go talk about the other issues. This is a redefinition. It is proposed by several, ladies and gentlemen. Knowing the legal procedure I think they can easily respond to it. Because when we talk about house redefinition it is impossible to catch the '21 target. There's no way and you know it very well. Because the cases that have been closed on the day of the new law will either be cancelled or resigned. And that's how the pins will be charged. With the platform we are talking about, it is avoided that the bottles are being filled with virtually non-existent assumptions. In addition, consider that there are thousands of cases where debtors have compromised with the creditors. And that's a reality. We know her. We know that this will not be the large number when we get to the end in order to examine these cases. Are some colleagues talking about costs, does it not seem clear in the bill that communication via the platform costs nothing? Some other colleagues are telling me about the documents, what they have to collect. Apart from the fact that they exist in the original file, I will tell you and repeat once again what seems to be the most clear way to produce the documents is not unacceptable. A file is not rejected if you do not produce these documents, it is simply an indication of the documents and, of course, it is concluded with the admissibility of the cases. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, are you critical of the tactical process? The introduction of the standard procedure with the necessary adjustments you know very well that it is necessary to speed up the proceedings. It does not contravene, you know very well, on the acceptable issue, since, above all, all these issues are judged by documents, with evidence. Do you really think that the presence of man alone, in any case, is the one to judge or the facts? Without the real evidence? Is that what you think? Look at the model of the regular procedure - we need to be a little clear - it has worked five years. And while today's Qualified Opposition should rejoice and say: "Good to adopt this tactic" comes and is actually faced with itself. Where is this consistency? Let me get this straight? Because here there are issues that, beyond existence at some point, will also create further questions and further issues. Instead of saying: 'Good use of a process' which we have introduced into our judicial system in a previous year, you are coming and condemning what you have done. It's really unthinkable to me, I'm telling you honestly. I think it takes a lot of effort to do it. I don't really have a reason to say anything, but yet it's admirable that you can and you can do it. I will tell you that the step I have taken - and I have told you at the first moment - was to ask the administrative plenary of the Ice Arrow for an opinion in order to know, since I believe in the cooperation of powers, the executive and the judiciary. After all, the Constitution requires it. And I think it is a reality that we should slowly adopt as a specific practice, especially in the Ministry of Justice. And I did it for other contentious articles - as you have seen - you have it in your hands. I put it in the Minutes when we discussed it in committee. It is absolutely positive for the regulations of this bill. Of course, the bills when they become the law of the state are again judged, you do not question this reality, but to question the judgment of the administrative assembly of the Ice Arena, obviously, it is an issue that also goes beyond me. I repeat this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And of course, in the basic question, how will we solve all these problems at the current rate of peace? I gave you the answers, ladies and gentlemen, many times the committee. I have already addressed the question to the Supreme Judicial Council about the placement of the forty-four peacekeepers. In fact, trying to ask again when this question is going to be introduced, the information I have is that it will be introduced into the new Supreme Judicial Council which will be held at the beginning of December in order to resolve this problem. In addition, I have spoken with the thirty peacekeepers about this issue. The problems of all these cases must be known to be found at thirty per cent of a forty an approximately pacifist court of the country. They don't have the problem with every court of peace in the country. I invited them. We've had an exhaustive dialogue. Did I ask them what I can do to help them to ensure that the country is consistent with a commitment undertaken by the previous government and that we close a chapter which, unfortunately, has been afflicting us for a long time? Of course people have agreed with me through proposals which they themselves have tabled, but of course I have tabled in this debate too. It is also planned that there should be training seminars so that this acceleration of procedures can be completed in the best possible way. All of these are issues that in total respond to the issue raised every time by any Member who is at the Step of the Greek Parliament in order to present his own views as well. That is what I think to a very large extent shows that the effort made by the Government and the Ministry of Justice to resolve a timely issue was an effort very persistent, very specific, trying not to leave gaps and not to create problems. Really, what do you think we woke up one morning and decided to trouble the world further? Who believes that, ladies and gentlemen? We want to close a problem, which is a huge pathogen in the Greek state and in Greek justice. Furthermore, we need to understand that this is a process of speeding up the protection of the real beneficiaries, who will be detached from a situation that is now in existence, but which, of course, we will also be given the opportunity to clear up with all these strategic misappropriators. Didn't you, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, really know that there were people who deliberately were there in order to hide themselves in some way? You think it's a practice that everyone knows about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u155	You have not listened carefully, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u156	However, I will not tell you that this is the majority. I'm not going to claim that. But I will tell you that in this way, in a completely fair and rapid process, the country will have responded to a commitment undertaken by the previous government, a matter that is a pathetic one and I think it creates a huge issue even in the European Court of Human Rights, but of course it will also have closed a circle which, unfortunately, has been uncompleted for many years, shows that we are not responding and showing that we are not so serious. I am very much in a hurry because I imagine that I have the opportunity to speak in a second time about the amendments and all of them, all the other articles that we have been concerned with. For Article 32. I think that the answer was given by the legislative improvement, I do not think there is a debate from now on, at least as regards the transitional nature of this provision. Apart from all these, ladies and gentlemen, because I do not know how much I need to talk about the dual 'trial procedure' or about the fact that huge revenues are actually being lost by the Greek state from such infringements, I will tell you that I addressed to the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State on this particular provision, for which there is not only a positive opinion, but there is - if you like - the best possible expression of opinion we could have on this particular issue. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] For the Article 40, a lot of reason for the secondment of a judiciary with a spouse's partner who may be abroad. Now really, all this debate is being called into question by questioning the independence of justice or not knowing the functioning of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Justice can now legislate, but what will happen to a Supreme Judicial Council decides. In other words, the only thing that is happening at the moment is that one of the judges or a number of judges who may, for some reason, have - if you like - the family cause of their service with his/her spouse abroad, just as is the case with many other branches: with soldiers, with teachers, to have that possibility, that is, what possibility? His case is to be discussed by the Supreme Judicial Council. That's not the Minister's decision. I would like to make it clear to you once again - and I would like to leave aside all these personal issues which you often know are the cause of a political position - and to understand that such issues do not exist. Article 51. There has been a lot of discussion on Article 51. So what do we do with Article 51? We are putting a time limit on issues relating to moral harm convictions - I am making it clear - as far as the enforcement process is concerned against publishing companies. Why against publishing? But because they are permanently exposed. He writes something about a newspaper, and from there on, anyone who can, with an enforcement decision, holds it hostage indefinitely. The fact that this is limited to eighteen months, isn't it a logic from your side? I really don't understand it. I repeat, we're talking about articles, we're not talking about jobs. We are not talking about labour disputes, we need to understand that a little. Because if there's a suspicion that there we're going to hide labour disputes or anything like that, obviously, you haven't read this article in the bill. Let's get this straight. There was a lot of discussion about the contested provision of the merger of the two prosecutors. I told the committee, I will repeat it now. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, if you thought there was an intention from me or from the government side, to unify the two prosecutors, to create something else - a given - or to hide a case or anything, such as the ones mentioned by this Step, would we not last year, say, one month after the elections? What do you think, to understand, should come to a point with very specific consultation, following a unanimous proposal from the New Criminal Code Monitoring Committee, which proposed this regulation and, of course, with the knowledge that there is a duplication of powers between the two public prosecutors, to propose this arrangement? Since you know that time will take and that will all be based on how justice works in Greece. But I really wonder again on the side of the Officerial Reconciliation when - I think, earlier, Mr Ragus said - that was a position that was often repeated by people who were in more critical positions of the previous government. Now, if you say retreat to Mr. Papagelopoulos, who was the Deputy Minister of Justice, the entire government term of SYRIZA, it is a matter that concerns you. But I think that very much all of this has been expressed, it has been written, there are, therefore, a little attention to what we say and what we support each time. I repeat, we need to be in a position to understand that if there were any feasibility, obviously, it would be in another way and not in the way you see it happen today. There are obviously no such issues. There was one question and I close with it, Mr President, 'why do you focus on them only the cases of the Katseli Act, you do everything for the banks, and why do we have to see only these issues and do not see any more?' Ladies and gentlemen, it is like living in parallel poles all this time. If you do not see the effort being made at the Ministry of Justice in order to speed up its operation and, of course, to shorten the time for justice, it is like we are not living in the same world. Obviously, you did not see that we had the mediation, nor did you see that we had the New Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors, did you not see that we tried to speed up the criminal investigation by reintroducing the Single Court as a Court of Appeal, did you not see that we placed new organic positions in the Judiciary, did you not see that the performance will be done by electronic means in the Council of State and in the administrative courts as from 1 January 2021, did you see that there were no more ten more formal certificates in the field of justice, electronically via JEPs, did you not see that we set up a path for peace in the National Court of Justice, did you not see that we were doing a statistical department in the Ministry of Justice so that we could collect the data and make good decisions in a second or a third year? Obviously, not all of these are choices to speed up justice. If you think it is an easy equation through issues that exist and which to a very large extent create reasonable questions both in Greek society and in Greek citizens, I think that what has been in the recent or possibly even in the distant past, how quickly the procedures in the field of justice have been initiated, can easily be the object of any comparison. Finally, I would like to answer a question which has been repeated many times since the Step earlier. As you know until 31 August, there were no auctions by decision of the Government and the Ministry of Justice. It goes without saying that once there is a new FSA, on the basis of the measures announced by the Prime Minister a few hours earlier, we will be reintroducing a new suspension period of this kind. The sensitivity, seriousness and responsibility shown by the government at any particular point in time, I think it has been demonstrated many times so far. Of course, it is the right of any colleague and any party representative to have his opinion and to express it differently. But you know, because from this step it has been heard many times that the government has lost its confidence in Greek society, that the Greek citizens do not see it, that they say it was the worst government of all, ladies and gentlemen, see what is happening really and at least, you realize that this government enjoys the confidence of Greek society, that this Prime Minister continues to gather on him the eyes of the entire Greek society and the hope of Greek society and, of course, that the effort that is being made is with the greatest seriousness and responsibility. And because a time cycle has been closed, and it is a subject that has often been busy, I would say, the media, but also many colleagues, I will tell you that the promise we made to close the issues and the issues of family law is close to its completion. At the beginning of next week, the chairman of the prefecture committee will give me the conclusion of the work, I will call on the representatives of the parties - I would like us to have a fruitful and productive dialogue - and, of course, through the procedure envisaged through public consultation to come to the vote together on a bill that will give a solution and a response to a very big problem that we all know exists in Greek society. With these considerations - obviously, the parties - I want to assure you that the effort made by the Ministry of Justice was with all the consciousness of the responsibility and seriousness that is being imposed by such a bill, and I would really like, at least on the articles, my fellow Members and representatives of the parties to show that they really have understood, know what to do and, at least, stand up to the circumstances of their own responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u157	The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that we are at extraordinary and critical times for our people with the second wave of pandemic, which was almost precisely predicted. Minister, what do you think, that the measures you are taking will not be politically opposed? And I also address to the government that we will not criticise, on the basis of past experience, and today's data too? Aren't we going to defend - and with proposals that you completely ignored - people's lives? Are we not going to criticise, when the public health system collapses, when there are closed cities and workers and professionals on the edge of the cliff and much more, when over six hundred human lives have been lost and lost, on the basis of the scientific evidence given today? What do we say? That emergencies require emergency measures. Did you take these measures? Here's the question. What if you got them, on what basis did you get them in the previous period? Because the mess and today's dead end bear your own seal. Scientists, health workers, unions, other mass bodies made proposals, which we as JRC supported. Did you take them into consideration? Oh, no. You left the people and the country intact and you have criminal responsibilities for the current situation. And they're conscious of the choices and leave them, that we're better than others, because in Africa too, yes, it's worse. That's the logic. You have actually left him the people, while giving you enormous margins and tolerance to take some measures and prepare for the second pandemic, and you have done the opposite. All the time, the sanctuary of individual responsibility. Of course there is individual responsibility. But the state? What's solo when they're sardines in public transport? What individual, when the kids tell us that they're twenty-five people, stacked on each other? Is that their fault? You went and loaded them in youth, etc. Why? Here's the question. Because you put on what your ideology believes, the strengths of the economy, that is, the requirements and protocols of capital. Example: tourism. Inadmissible situation in order to satisfy large --scale owners, shipowners, all those who consider it to be an opportunity or consider it. You didn't do any checks. All this is well known, and I don't want to go to scientific level because that's what scientists are talking about. And then you're talking about supreme value. The supreme value of your system, which you serve, and of this so-called human system that others say, that can't be, is the profit. This is what you have served and you have done all the sacrifices the people made in the previous period and the results today. We'll talk more specifically. You're the only one who did it? The whole capitalist world. All the countries of the European Union have preferred the tens of thousands of coffins and the tens of thousands of people to keep the economy, namely the interests of large companies, which have been afflicted. We don't give the evidence. This coronary came out richer, huge multinationals and monopolies. The European Union has done the same. The European Union has also done something else, however, to give hundreds of millions, where? Again to them. You can't - he says - put on other buses. Who says that? Give us a point. I'll tell you later. Why can't you give 10, 20 million? How do you give it to all those who are poor, live in gold and luxury, circulate from a helicopter and above, have eight hundred houses each, have unstoppable treasures, a 1 million-dollar party? This is what you are buzzing once again and you are feeding on the European Union's Recovery Fund. The result is truly tragic. Thousands of coffins and dilemmas. You're gonna live, you're gonna die. You're eighty-two, die, you're seventy-nine, let's get you out of here. And down the scale as a whole. This is your system and it has proved to be with this crisis. But that's not good enough, but you did something else, and that's terrible, and it won't pass that way. You have exploited the pandemic to pass, as a golden opportunity, and to apply new reactive measures, twists of the century such as the eighth hour, which you take 10 hours, unpaid overtime, etc. Really, what right is it that a man who works twelve hours won't get paid for? What's the matter? Why? For the people? For human life? Or to raise the profits of the capitalist? And we are talking about the large - large - who have the vast majority. Of course, all the measures taken, and before and now, are to pay back the crisis again. And because you know - and don't ride the reed, I say it directly - that discontent grows and that the people don't accept these, you also brought laws to ban protests and marches or at least obstacles. Because you won't be able to, we'll get rid of them in practice, the movement, you can be sure. You are now preparing a lousy bill for the trade union movement. Well, what do you think it is? What do you think you're gonna do? Are you going to put zippers on the workers? What are you going to do to them? Parts of the computer, where will the buttons be pressed? You arrived at the misery of the Ministry of Education - listen, to your god - to all the candidates of all the resignations and the Ministry to post them up and say elections on Saturday by electronic means. That wasn't even on Hitler. Is it possible I don't want to be a candidate, and you put me in? Retire, too, and you post me on the list? So where are you going with this? You'll pay for it, and you'll be sure. And now, of course, since we are at the current juncture, we have an opportunity to end with the first residence and the popular layers, because that is the majority. Just criticism? No, we've made suggestions. First of all, we have been responsible from the very beginning for health measures. We said a mask, but there's a voice in the mask. We proved it at other events as well. You won't shut our mouths, nor now, don't deceive yourself, with the horror, from now on. Don't dare bring what you plan in the middle of a pandemic. It's gonna be hell, we're telling you. The workers won't accept it. And their health will protect, but they won't let you go. Because that's what you've done so far. We are, first of all, talking about the private health sector. Do you agree? Why don't you do it? You feed them! Aren't you embarrassed? People are dying, and you're giving them more profits? What are you going to say tomorrow to a relative of a victim? When we call a requisition, we mean a requisition. Can't you say that we have war when you have war, you're ordering, yes or no? - and make fun of and feed the clinical chiefs, like they're poor. Allegiance to integrate into a single system so that - as far as possible with the misery you have done - they can protect the health of the people. Why don't you do it? Retirement? But a requisition. Not like the rest of us say, less compensation. Because we haven't heard anyone else say such a order, since you say we're at war. Also, the opening of hospitals that closed down. You booked hospitals with ten thousand beds all together. Now what does it look like? That's not enough. You're sending them to the private people. Those who don't have what to do? Why don't you do that, open the hospitals? Recruitment of health personnel, doctors, nurses, etc. But do you have "bi" like that, say you did four hundred fifty? At least seven thousand have to do. Why don't you do that, don't you have any money? For the industrials, do you have one? For the banks, do you have one? For investors, do you have one? So you're sacrificing human life with what you're doing. That is not enough. They've all drowned. The ones you called heroes, you hit them with the clubs of MATs, and today they are truly commendable, they give the battle of human dignity and human life. Workplace protection measures. Why don't you take those? Can't you? Instead of sending MATs and having ten thousand every day on the road, send checks to the workplace. Did you see what happened? I do not want to say business, because it is not right, it is too many. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me my dentistry, Mr President. So why? Tell us what fines you have put, how many businesses you have checked on whether they are taking measures against the workers. Give us evidence. There's the unbaptised. We're protecting. Let the world die, let people get stuck, let cases be hidden. Fourthly, total decongestion and recruitment. Where? In the field of public transport. But good, don't you have any logic? What did the Prime Minister say today? I heard him and my hair got up. Yeah, he says, it's public transport. Of course, he's a public transporter in normal condition. But in the event of a pandemic, can't you put the hundred and seventy-five public buses that exist here, which lack spare parts of a few million? Can't you quickly change them? Can't you check two thousand tourists who're asking themselves to put them in the transports? Can't you squeeze the metro to thicken the paths that take off their manifolds? Why don't you do that? Why would anyone say that in simple sense - and many executives say so to you - do not do so in public transport, even today? Why don't you hire other people in a case of war, as you say? It's a war, but it's a different kind. Why don't you do that? And you want us not to talk about all this? Finally, our proposal: no worker, unemployed professional, without decent income. Some measures have been announced. I didn't see the last of these from Mr. Stakouras, from the government. Granting an exceptional allowance to all unemployed, without any conditions. And of course, I say again: Pick up this rival that you're about to bring. We say that the virus will also be defeated by science. But this pandemic showed the majesty and barbarity of the capitalist system. Because, you know, even the competition for vaccines and all the rest show that human life is the last. Couldn't there be a global partnership between all the companies? Oh, no. That's socialism. Now it's runnin' by who's gonna get it first to make most of the money. And we say it's an opportunity for the people to draw conclusions to put this system and this policy into lockdown. Because today the potential of science, technology, productivity, work are such that they can examine too many things and can make people's lives happy. But they are sacrificed to the altar of profit, and that is the big question. Finally, for the bill. In fact, we have the private overcompensation, which needs to be addressed. What do you do with the previous one and the present one? You must establish, at legal level - and I see you lawyers here - your economic policy, which says this: All in capital, all in banks and funds. Can we just talk? It's a hundred thousand cases. That's all it is, isn't it? Come on, it's a couple of knuckleheads, as you tell them. How many will be? We need to retreat for the sake of discussion. Most people are people. What are you doing? You take his house and deliver it to the banks and the funds. And that's not good enough. You did that with the previous one. Now you want to remove all the procedural arguments - to say so - he had rights, supposedly. Listen to me and answer. I don't have a problem. We're talking about arguments. You removed any procedural tools he had in his hands, even delaying or otherwise rescuing the first residence. In fact, you disarm the borrowers and with these procedures now, with the possibilities they have to do what is said, in my opinion - let me say so - 'a fair trial'. What's the pretext? Justice is sluggish and that this situation is gleaning. Indeed, this is a tragic situation. Why don't you take a mirror to see yourself, and you and KINAL and SYRIZA? Why did who rule the country? Who came to justice in this mess to wait ten and fifteen years? Who? Did we do it? Why did you not hear all these years of proposals - which were not socialism - of all those involved in justice - legal associations, judges, prosecutors, everyone - who told you to recruit - recruitment - recruitment, modernisation - modernisation? Why didn't you do all this? And now you're suddenly caught making the administration of justice quick? Are you kidding us? And you're gonna do it on the back of the laurel with the loans? You're talking about loans. Who's to blame for the loans? The one who took them or the one who gave them? Tell me. Except for exceptions, I say. And you're asking here to find evidence from his great-grandfather? Why did the banks give them up? How much is everyone paying? Let those who see us think of those who took a loan, how much do they pay for it? Three times up. Yes or no? And if you're late, you're skinned with your coats. Isn't that right? ‘The banks have become poor.’ When we talk about banks, we are not only talking about banks, because here we have a large part of the economy: industry, etc. What do you have to say? Why didn't you make such changes and now bring to the back of workers and people's classes to make quick justice? What fast now? Okay, we understand very well what's going on. On this occasion and on this pretext, we must end with the hundred thousand. To enter the banks and the funds. Rent the house they've paid for twice and two and a half and they can't pay the rest. And in the end, whoever can, can buy it. And in order to do this quickly, we do away with things that all those involved with justice, whether lawyers or association of prosecutors and people who have nothing to do with us, are radically opposed to everything you do. What are you doing? First, the burden on the debtor, to redetermine his own. Isn't that right? Short deadlines. To collect evidence and in the face of a pandemic. Of course, the Minister said that these could be suspended, i.e. 'I will slaughter you later, not today'. Secondly, asymmetrical deadlines and if they are not complied with, it is considered that an application for regulation has never been made, even if an interim order has been made. That is, the man's "shooted" it. The big banks have legal offices, they have everything. The simple man has to run with the lawyer, if he can pay him, to go and find all this. Third, restrict the appeal. Why are you limiting him? Six months now. It was two years, wasn't it? Who's benefiting? It's no use. It's because of...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u159	It's not like that. Thirty days was the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u160	...who hurrys to take his house away quickly. Because you are saying that he is in a hurry to clear up the case, and in fact that is what we are doing, that is to say to unblock it. And as you say about independent justice, I do not want to say the general one again. We've told them what kind of independence it is when you appoint leadership when you make the laws. Is it now independent? After putting her two feet in a shoe: "Get out all these cases quickly." In fact, with more documents and less - if there is a hearing. Don't you put that on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u161	They participated themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u162	What's going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u163	And they agreed to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u164	Judges don't say that. The trade unions that came here and the lawyers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u165	Representatives of the Union of Judges. Everybody agreed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u166	Don't give up on that. And the lesson will take it Saturday from the teachers when you vote - and you will be humiliated - not even 5%. Why invoke society and you mean a narrow circle that you have around you and even...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. You've exhausted your time and your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u168	I shall conclude, Mr President. And finally the burden of proving who has it, Minister? Tell us about it, and the lawyers. The bank or the debtor? Do I have to prove that I'm not an elephant? Isn't that what you're doing? The burden of proof is transferred to the borrower, the debtor, and not to the creditor, who is told to be a banker. Isn't that what you're doing? Where did that sound? Why are you doing all this? The rest was said by Mrs Maria Konnakas, our rapporteur, in detail, for the exercise and for a number of other things by the Code of Lawyers. Just know you won't have a good time. And don't easily draw any conclusions. When the houses begin to leave, and when the law of SYRIZA starts to apply, as I see Mr. Polakis standing, who did...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u169	First place we didn't get, comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u170	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u171	...then you will be accounted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u172	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Georgios Kotsiras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a new congressman. But I think it is my duty to make a point of order. Approximately two and a half hours, there are speeches of parliamentary representatives without mediation from the list of speakers. I'm ninth in a row. And the time is 16:30. Anyway, I think that in these difficult and special circumstances for our country, this difficult period we are all experiencing is important that it is moving forward with legislative work. In fact, there is a bill from the Ministry of Justice, the sixth, for which there has been a fairly serious process in the committees as well. There was a hearing of bodies. It was adopted by the Ministry of Proposals and the Bar Associations and the Judges and those representing borrowers. The Minister's replies were good prior to his speech on issues raised by the Opposition. It is undoubtedly important, because the area of justice is a sensitive area. It is an area which has a strong social imprint and a strong social dimension. And any legislative intervention in this area must be careful and institutional. He must listen to the voice of society, listen to the voice of justice and listen to the voice of common sense. In this respect, I believe that all three objectives are achieved. It provides for the bill on speeding up the trial of pending cases under Law 3869/2010. And I ask: is it in honour of any legal system that there are legal systems in the year 2021 for 2029, for 2030, for 2031, for 2032? Is anyone really protected when his case is being tried after ten and eleven years? Is there any abuse of temporary judicial protection, which obviously protects the person who achieves it, but does it not protect him for ten years? There is a specific time-frame within which his case should be discussed in court. Here too, there is a real effort. It was undertaken by the previous government to come in 2021. And rightly so, we move on to this collection of cases, to this clearing of the situation that prevailed in that particular legal framework in order, in fact, that he, who is entitled to protection, has decided on his case in good time. However, anyone who abuses the legal framework in order to be able to achieve other purposes than those for which the legislator legislated in 2010, as was subsequently formed, cannot continue to protect him for ten and eleven years until there is a debate on his case. That's abuse. For this reason, Article 6 of the ECHR rightly refers to fair trial and sets time as a point of reference of the fair trial in order to avoid abuse. The Minister and our rapporteur have already mentioned many parts of the bill this morning, which do not only concern the specific aspect of changing the framework of Law 3869/2010, as far as at least procedural and time are concerned. Because in substance, there is no change in protection. On the contrary, it is guaranteed. There are very serious provisions and very serious innovative efforts on the subject of the Code of Lawyers. There is a serious adaptation to the functioning of the collective bodies of lawyers, to be more compatible with the digital age, to have a greater update of the way in which legal status is exercised, compatible with what the Human Rights Court has judged. There is a streamlining of disciplinary sanctions. If I may, there are provisions which, in my view, constitute an innovation, which can be the beginning of further aid, innovative and reformist in subsequent drafts. It is important that Article 36 for the distance conferences of judges, so that it can be carried out by means of technological means that ensure their secrecy and thus at least use digital technology, that there is use of the data we have, so that decision-making can proceed more quickly. It's a key element in speeding up justice. I believe, Minister, that we must rely on this and move on other dimensions which have to do with justice. Because now, not only because of the pandemic that is obviously affecting justice and justice, but more generally, we need instruments that will help genuinely speed up the adoption of judgments, always, obviously, with respect for the judiciary of judges, of what the law has entrusted to this critical function. I also consider my duty as a man who has served the Athens Association of Prosecutors and New Lawyers and as President and as a member of the Board of Directors for some a decade ago, to refer positively to the fact that the Minister provides by law for a strengthening of the institution of exercise in the courts which existed and was abolished. This is closer to European data. The lawyer employed may be up to 12 months in court. And not only that, but the important thing for me on which we can bend and improve it and strengthen it is that it can by act of the court's President of the court go to a judge and assist him. When this provision had been made in the past - after which it was abolished - and indeed, NSRF funds had also been used to pay trainees, it had helped speed up cases... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. ...where there was assistance from the lawyer engaging in judicial officers, it always appears, under the conditions laid down, with respect for the protection of personal data and the secrecy of proceedings. I think, therefore, that there should be this strengthening of the process, that it should be financed from funds coming from the ESRB - and that is a challenge, because there will be financial instruments to strengthen it - it is a very important initiative that will help the lawyer involved, but also the act of justice on a daily basis closer to European data. I shall conclude, Mr President. Undoubtedly, today, the debate is taking place in a day when the Prime Minister, together with the head of the Committee on Infections, announced the concrete measures by the end of November. The country gives us a national battle, a battle very serious, a battle from which many issues relating to society will be dealt with. And the government, the political system, but also the society, will be very responsible for responding to the new culminations of times and facing this difficult period, and will close its ears to any voice which is irresponsible and populist, wherever it comes, trying to block this national effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u174	Then Mr. Vassiliou Ypsilantis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to welcome from the Step forward this text of the Greek Presidency of the Council of Europe on the defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights at a time of pandemic, especially the recognition of the need, the citizens themselves to become protagonists in the battle for life, well informed and away from false news unscientific doctrines and divisive rhetoric and the direction that they expressly express for the provision of health services to all, a compass that Greece follows, strengthening the National Health System throughout the country. The Athens Declaration is indeed an essential precedent for future generations in the field of human rights in periods of health crises and pandemics and coincides with the seventy years since the signing of the European Convention on Human Rights, the spirit of which is updated by the Athens Declaration. Today Greece effectively undertakes to deal with the second wave of the pandemic. In the first, in the time that passed, the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the New Democracy, did too much. He dealt with it effectively. He prepared until then the intact health system that we received from you. Support the financially affected by the pandemic. Insufficient are you, gentlemen, of counter-population, inadequate and unreliable in the eyes of the Greek people. You are criticising things that if you were to manage, on the basis of the positions you have put forward - better, I would say today, of the non-opportunities, because at last tell us what you are taking up all this crisis - you would have literally drowned in this country. You're socially and politically untrained. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The use by the Prime Minister of the country to the emblematic contagionist - Professor Sotiris Tsiodras of his own, nor did he involve a reduction in the use of insult, ladies and gentlemen. On the contrary, it involved a great symbolism and the deepest appreciation of all the Greeks in the face of the simple, but at the same time great, Sotiris of Greece that admired all mankind. Listen to see, you are blind politically, cynical and inferior to the circumstances. You can't see how many beds ICU have been made in such a short time. You cannot see how many people, executives, doctors, nurses have been added to the health system, how many tests have been carried out in this country since this government has been responsible for dealing with the situation. Every reasonable Greek support today also supports this effort. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece does not stop and the economy will resuscitate. However, the protection of the health of the citizens is important at this time. The government seriously and on the basis of the needs of society, in the light of always scientific admissibility, will continue to face the challenges of pandemic and the challenges to national issues, but will also keep a large window open to support for society, state modernisation and the implementation of investment projects that give impetus to the economic development of the country. With regard to the bill, I would point out in advance that in the area of justice last year, for its rapid and valid award, serious steps have been taken by the Ministry's and the Government's leadership. It's the sixth in a series bill within 15 months. It is draft laws that seek to modernise justice, speed up the procedures, harmonise our legislation with international commitments. Thousands of thousands of families are currently in hostage. SYRIZA on 28 February 2019 abolishes the protection of first residence. Before the primary courts, more than forty thousand applications of the Katseli law have been identified after 1 January 2021, and their discussion has taken place in a year after 2027 and forty-two thousand nine cases identified from 2020 until 2032. This unacceptable situation closes in 2021 by identifying new courts within 2021 with an application submitted by the electronic platform. The submission of the request for redefinition will remove tax confidentiality and will, in particular, be established to protect the interests of borrowers, who will obtain automated bank documents necessary for the judgement of their application. The oral procedure shall not be repealed. There is a possibility, if the judge considers it. The valuer's report will now be mandatory... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President, as with all the previous speakers. ... will be submitted to the notary and will enable the borrower to receive as much price as possible for the auction item. Objections of unconstitutionalism are completely unfounded, recalling that the Legal Council has the approval of the Administrative Assembly of the Ice Bay and, of course, two of the three associations of borrowers. The rights and protection of weak borrowers shall be guaranteed definitively and irrevocably. Also, the bill under discussion lays the foundations for the prospect of the digital transformation of Greek justice. The Code of Lawyers is being modernised, the exercise time of lawyers is growing. We have heard from Mr Kotsira, Mr Kotsira, about the EUR 600, which will take every trainee. All Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Papaggelopoulos, have witnessed at least the inadequate operation of the Prosecutor of Corruption. This ends definitively both in the eyes of the Greek people and in the administration of essential justice in the field. It is, I would also say, importantly, that the two amendments tabled by Mr Vorides on the tightening up of the provisions on the torture of animals...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u176	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...and to extend the period for licence to fish for full-fledged species for fishermen in Kalymnos. Ladies and gentlemen, all the things I have mentioned are stopping the irresistible screaming and the unfounded and populist opposition with the wise reformist mood shown by the Justice Ministry. But I would like, Minister, to point out this: the effort is a great deal and does not stop here. The staff of the courts should continue on the basis of the various notices, which have been made and are waiting for people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Ypsilante, please complete. You're talking eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u179	I'm done, Mr. President. I would also like to point out this: it is not possible, Minister - and I know that the Ministry of Justice is not responsible - for leaving judges, taking over and keeping cases with them. This must be stopped if we really want to have a further acceleration in the procedures for the administration of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u180	The next speaker is Mr Paul Paulakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I've done a lot to tell you. Unfortunately, however, as a result of previous speeches, I will devote most of my speech today to the matter of pandemic, which you have also raised. I will try to say two, three things about the bill, although I think I have been covered by the speeches of previous colleagues. Look, let's say things from now on with their name. The second lockdown announced today at 12 noon, has a name and signature. He has the name ‘Kyriakos Mitsotakis’ and the signature ‘Government of the Mosles of the New Republic’. In March we set you back, because it was a new virus, which we did not know, became the panic in Bergamo, and we all said that in a new disease, which we do not know how it behaves, there must be measures of social distancement, to see what is going on and to prepare our society, our system, our economy for the second phase. You spent eight months in "Charakiozi's wedding." And now I'm not generally speaking, I'm talking about the weight that has a five-year term in the Ministry of Health, which thankfully also in March, and so far we have the health system that we delivered to you in July 2019 and not the health system that we received in January 2015. For with EUR 1 billion a year in excess of money, with EUR 16 billion in service, with EUR 300 million net cash surplus in the ESS, with new aerospace bases, with new hospitals opening up new sections, with a EUR 220 million programme in progress, which we only prevented from cutting ribbons for the rest of you, yes - because a liar is Mr Mitsotakis, not us - four hundred thirty-eight beds IBS received in January 2015, five hundred and fifty-eight beds we delivered you in July 2019. So, if we had a hundred and thirty less than that, what would happen now? With this weight, I say to you this: the second wave of pandemic and the dramatic turn it takes is due to your own lack of political and technocratic politics, because it is not in your DNA to support the public health system - the coronary has prevented you and you are forced to do some things - and technically, because the excellence of many of you is from LIDL, private colleges and you don't know how to do it. On the first day of the night I went to Kiklia and told him, "so can five hundred sixty-eight, a thousand two hundred, namely, paper and squid, so much in the CSD, so much in the "Save", so much in the "Nice", so much in the other hospitals, so much in Kalamata, where they can enter chambers where there is air and oxygen supply." What did you do with it? We'll tell the truth. The real extra beds that can be hosted by patients who need a multivalent ICU are between thirty and a hundred forty. These are the real beds. The other number, the ninety-four, the thousand-two, these are the alien's visions in the Hymittos. Is that right? Let's get to know each other. That's what you've done. Secondly, you've done a disgraceful management of the tourist current. Retreat to TUI's requirements and entered without a test. We have told you for a long time, and even in the first phase of the pandemic, when we had areas of no cases, "children, in areas where there are no cases, let's make a quicker withdrawal of lockdown through tests that had to be done both for PSR and for antibodies, so that the machine could get started". Lives have been destroyed, unemployment has gone back to 21%. You've done a catastrophic management of public transport. You canceled the seven hundred and fifty bus competition that we had arranged. You cancelled the ninety-two buses in the Attica Region. And I would like to ask now - why can I no longer say that I have come to this - I would like to ask the friend Sotiris, whom the Prime Minister called today, and I mean Mr Tsiodra: Is it true or is it not that the scientific committee changed its decision by political order on three issues, its scientific decision and, firstly, the opening up of schools, secondly, the opening of tourism, thirdly, the opening up of the fields had taken a negative position or had certain conditions and finally changed it? I am not saying that the scientific committees have the political responsibility. Political responsibility lies with the governments. That is why I said that lockdown has a name 'Metsotakis' now. But true scientists do not obey political management orders. They say their opinion, they do not change it on the basis of political directives. It's a strong complaint that I'm making, I'm getting all the weight of this complaint I'm making. I know that people have left the Scientific Committee precisely for this reason, because they have not tolerated this story. And today, the Prime Minister went to cover his own flaw - and he "patched it" and a little there with the media that cut off the connection and brought it back - with the friend Sotiris next to him. Also, the last sea bass, which I hear - and whoever's been out of medical school understands, though he doesn't have to pass - is what young children don't pass. What do you guys think? Didn't you all grow up? When the children went five and six years old to school or to kindergartens, didn't they all ionize and bring them home? Yes or no? You have to be a doctor? What kind of scientific shit is this, Mr. Sotiris, that primary school kids get less? The reason for this measure - because I cannot see medical science coming into the service of a terrible policy - is not that the children are getting less - more stuck - but the children five to seven years of age cannot sit alone at home while the big children are sitting. That's why we're closing down the high school and high school seats that big kids and young people can't sit alone at home, we're getting away with parents' parental leave. That's it. We're not working here! We won't be working with scientific dolphins.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u182	Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u183	I'm asking for your tolerance. Could it be different? Clearly, it could be different. I should like to address my fellow Members to the hospitals, because this is where the situation is rooting and will give more thought. You have unleashed a history of terrorism in the world. I'm talking to Greek society right now. We'll make it, but not like this. Those who are inside the ERR with the support of people who can do it will. The knowledge we have right now and the new treatments for the virus gives us more weapons. There are studies by Greek researchers, in Greek hospitals, with excellent results of some modern medicines, which have a very low mortality rate, even in heavy situations. We've told you how. Do it with the ITH.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u184	Come on, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u185	They told me that in the storage room that's in the Tavros, the respirators donations are stacked, etc. Take them out and put them in hospitals. Get people. Two thousand three hundred people have been new since May. That's it, you haven't got one more. The other are renewal contracts of what we have appointed. Don't work between us. The situation's jamming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u186	Come on, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u187	I'm done. Listen! Do some hospitals. Some hospitals, not all of them, like what you did. It says 80% reduction everywhere. What's that? Where's the other guy going to get surgery? Will brains, neurosurgeries, cardiology, trajectory, tumors, cancers? Where are they going to operate? We told you, and then, I'm the reason why I'm getting upset. We told you to do "Smooth," do "Fleming", do "Patios", do these, such hospitals that will relieve. Because if they get the treatment they need earlier, it doesn't go to the ITH.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u188	Come on, Mr. Polakis, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u189	I'll close, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u190	You've reached ten minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u191	You're absolutely right, just because it's the day like this. We go back without being inevitable and fatal in a second lockdown with all the economic disaster that this will bring to society. Give me the money. We poorly left you 37, as well as 30 of the job was done. The 37 that we left you, give them to support the world. We're going to go into a recession spiral, imagining the first memorial children's toothpastes if you don't now. Now you've started talking about a repayable deposit. When we talked about it, we told you that you were going to be spending or out of the unexplained Pecha statement, we'd throw money for intensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u192	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u193	A word about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u194	No, Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u195	Hot request, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u196	I do not accept any request. Please hang up here. Go to 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u197	You will remain in history as the man who, because the Toulopakis investigation is not suited to you, abolish the corruption prosecutor you made in order to get Peppon and Muzakiti, the other prosecutor, who was investigating "SIEMENS". How life makes circles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Polakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u199	And last of all...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u200	No, there isn't. It'll turn off the microphone, Mr. Polakis. Please! Would the next speakers not be right to ask for more time too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u201	I have seen Article 52 that it is only about moral harm.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u202	I'll give it to you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u203	Look, the Scientific Committee in Parliament realized it was more involved. And they sent me from the Ministry of Justice, that there is a series of publishers who owe millions to tax and insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u204	Not for a joke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u205	I'm glad about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u206	I'm giving you the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u207	However, the publishers themselves also owe for slandering, convictions, which they will not pay for now. And they're not even small amounts. It's 15, 20, 25, 30 thousand, which they haven't paid while they've been convicted because they've written everything you can imagine. I'm talking about Kurtakis and Jeno, who owe both tax and insurance funds a lot of money. And I see that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament there strikes you unrelentingly with what it says you are weighing the issue of freedom of the press, but on the other hand there is an insult to human personality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Polakis, you're done. There's no record of anything you're saying. Next speaker, Mr. Poulas, from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I could not comment on the second ban announced today by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's arguments have now lost their value. After you assured beforehand the citizens that we would do everything well, since you gave society the signal that the difficult things have passed, the limiting situation in the ICUs has come to put you before your responsibilities. Your hypocrisy and handshake are beating red and Mr. Gerapitris says everything is well burned. Where exactly do you see that? When you're transferring responsibility to the citizens? Who prevented you from creating ITH beds for eight months? Why didn't you check the closed structures in time, and we see the elderly in the nursing homes hospitalizing and transporting from city to city? Why didn't you go through covering the tests from the EEA as the whole world asks you? When do you think to involve the private sector in the management of the pandemic? You, instead of planning and preventing the critical health situation that was expected to arrive in our homeland, did a communication show and displayed serious wisdom by means of lectures. Now see how you will convince society and how to manage the huge damage you cause to the economy, shortly before Christmas that everyone expects to recover from the damages of the first ban. Also, Argolida and the whole country are fighting. The season of olive harvesting and oranges begins. Many farmers support their income in these productions. What's gonna happen? Will they be able to work, will they be able to harvest the labors of a whole year? How exactly will the mills work after the bans? These are questions which must be answered directly by the competent authorities. And now I'm going to the bill. There is no doubt that in the area of justice we are once again in the same work of spectators. The system has reached its limit on the accumulated problems that arise, the long delays in the discussion of cases at the audiences, the huge queues in the submissions of documents and the undermining of the services. Here, as in the health sector, you are dealing with the situation in the same superficial way, with patches and without any substantial solutions being offered. The images of the courts are third-world. The building infrastructure of the courts in many cities, like in my town Nafplio, is inadequate and digital justice is still far from the real needs. Despite all the problems you, with the current bill of the Ministry of Justice, legislate once again with a class mark, on the pretext of the principle of fair trial, of Article 6 par. 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the creation of a new parallel political procedural procedure, exceptionally regulating the pending cases of Law 3869/2010, you make painless contributions to the Code of Lawyers and you intervene in the composition of the Court of Auditors. You are also bringing provisions on the prosecution of corruption, which in many cases has been worked out, has lost independence over the executive authority and has ultimately been a crucial link in a chain of actions that are now in the microscope of justice. Our fears and the original intention of the legislator of 2011 were justified. However, I would like to stress here that we consider it necessary to return to the original PASOK rule of Law 4022/2011, adopted by the entire House, which provided for first interrogation and trial of the acts of corruption of state and public officials from regular justice without a hat by another prosecutor. These are the same reasons that led the PASOK government of George Papandreou to suggest and the establishment of the financial prosecutor with Law 3943/2011. The purpose of both Law 3943/2011 and Law 4022/2011 was to return citizens' confidence in justice and strengthen the entire institutional function. But the main core of the bill is your intention to finish the issue of overdue definitively and irrevocably without compromising the social consequences and inconvenience created in the field of justice. In particular, it is foreseen that they will be identified directly under the responsibility of the lawyers of the indebted persons and will be tried in thirteen months by all cases under Law 3861/2010 with no hearing. You prove your choice to serve without any barrier the interests of the banks to the detriment of our highly indebted fellow citizens. And you're coming to finish the scene by voting for the bankruptcy code. This is how you put a tombstone on the hopes of our highly indebted fellow citizens for a new principle of social justice, for a fair distribution of the burdens of their obligation. The main problems are the delay in the administration of justice and the lack of staff for which you have not yet taken any action. On the contrary, by doing the grace of the banks, as the SYRIZA government did, you are intensifying the sense of social injustice while a new generation of our highly indebted fellow citizens is emerging, the generation of coronary overlaps. I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health. It concerns the extension of the deadline for the provision of an opinion on the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work requested and entitled among others to the health of the ERCs who have taken on the huge burden of the management of a pandemic. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Here reveals the size of your hypocrisy, your social analgesia and your class targeting. Save for protectors of public health, only applause for the fighters of the ESS. The actual reward for supply to society through the integration of health workers into the heavy and unhealthy future, as the Minister, Mr Skeylakis, has told us today, trying to earn time and at a cost of EUR 35,000 - and perhaps even more - for the pandemic to pass and for the promises made to the health staff of the HSH and then for the privatization of the OSH. That explains your refusal to vote six times on the amendments we tabled as a Change Movement. It's too bad. It's just a pity. With regard to the article that refers to the extension of the legalisation of the costs of hospitals and IICs, we should tell you that this little bit of extensions that have started since 2015 cannot continue anymore. It has led to derailment of hospital expenses, and that is why we are not voting on it. Ladies and gentlemen, only the PASOK government has truly and effectively protected our highly indebted citizens by going against the current and European admonitions with No.3869/2010. The PASOK government has come forward to defend these people in order to maintain their home and dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u210	We will give the floor to Mrs. Anagnostopoulos from SYRIZA. Then we will give the floor to two other Members. So on the basis of the time to be observed, we expect the third speaker to end at around 17.30. After the third speaker, we will be interrupting for ten minutes to make a decontamination of the Chamber. That's compulsory. The health protocols also provide for it. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. "I can't let society risk." ‘I have heard the suggestions and decided.’ 'I take the responsibility for the decision because it requires the public interest'. "The Sotiris will also tell you." This paternalism of an elite that it considers to be the legitimate owner of the state, who speaks to the native, who only uses scientists for what is in the interests of it, is unacceptable, is undemocratic, and is inconsistent with the crisis in which we have come because of precisely the Prime Minister and his Government. So this responsibility and acceptance of responsibility, the admission of a complete failure by the Prime Minister today at 12 noon. The hour with this selfish and next to him, Professor Chiodra, is trying to invest her himself, the Government and the New Democracy MPs, with the well-known historical record that she is using. What's good at the place is done thanks to us. Whatever evil is caused by this society which cannot be disciplined, cannot be subjugated, cannot follow the laws. We are listening to the account of individual responsibility and the Prime Minister suddenly appears to say "I take responsibility since you did not do it right". We know very well now who didn't do it right for so many months. We know very well who and why they have to account for this society that made sacrifices last spring, with the whole of the opposition putting back on it so that we can fight against this pandemic. But the government preferred it for itself. And what she then did, its full irresponsibility, its complete distance from the needs imposed by the times of pandemic and the needs of society, this responsibility we all citizens will call upon her to answer. Let the Prime Minister account for the situation in the U.S., Mrs. Kerameos for education, Mr. Karamanlis for buses, for public transport, Mr. Petsas. All of this government. But I want to say another thing. It's not enough to get this far. The Prime Minister - this huge'me' - does not come tomorrow at the Prime Minister's time when he announces the lockdown, when he is supposed to put society back in place. And it is indeed a battle against the pandemic but also against the economic recession that it brings. Of course, the government's absolute failures. So instead of coming here to the House precisely for this reason, instead of coming to Parliament to discuss with the Qualified Opposition, with all the opposition, what is it doing? He cancels the announced debate tomorrow in the House with the Civic Opposition and the whole opposition. The Prime Minister seems to have learned that all that has to be done is to be glorified by the fuelled Mass Information Instruments. The accountability that parliamentary control, which is the breath of democracy, should be given to the House, is left at a time of crisis. At a time when all the weapons of society, political parties, social forces, are supposed to be in the struggles to fight. At this very moment, the Prime Minister is avoiding coming to the House. That's all judged. I won't talk about the bill. I agree with those who have spoken from the Civilian Representation Party, the rapporteur, the Parliamentary Representative, and so on. However, I would just like to stick to one point of the amendment tabled for the strengthening of cultural sites. Here too, the government, in a measure, of aid that would go in the right direction, was expected to be too eagerly from the whole world of culture, namely the subsidisation of posts and tickets to the cultural sites where their capacity was reduced to 30%, so that they were then closed long before Lockdown, so also without data, etc. on whether the virus is transmitted here and here, which we would have liked to propose to strengthen the spaces that will not open at all by 20%, but with 30% to enable small spaces to be supported instead of this combined, as the Minister for Culture had announced, and as promised to workers in the cultural area, instead of combining it with the control of entrepreneurs for the recruitment of workers with at least fifty days' insurance, so that rehearsals could not be reached by those people in absolute poverty instead of talking about workers. The Minister accused the workers of culture of working in black labor. In fact, he promised that this would change. The pandemic is an opportunity because it produces poor texts, those of the lack of collective agreements for workers in the field of culture. Instead of taking the opportunity to create a legal precedent, to create a custom and to make aid fully dependent on people's intake and safety for at least fifty days, where rehearsals at last will be paid, instead of that the workers simply do not exist. In the area of tourism and focus, things are even worse. And there they are completely left to God's mercy and to workers and small businesses. Minister, I would like to ask you a question, it was made by SYRIZA's Justice Minister, and we want an answer. What was the Minister of Culture a week before he tried to appeal the bodies to the S.H.E. on the ancients of Thessaloniki to visit the President of the Council of State? We haven't received a reply. We consider this to be an institutional problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I would like the floor to answer Mrs Anagnostopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u213	Minister, you have the floor. Then there will be the floor for Mr. Charalampos Papademiriou, Mr. Maravegias, and then we will be adjourned for sanitary decontamination.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Look, because the matter has been raised, and I think at least the people who are aware of the process of functioning in the Council of State would never ask such a question. Don't you know that for all these big cases the State Councils listen to both parties? Do you know that earlier they saw her rival lawyers across the street? Do you know all this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u215	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, you realise that if such a meeting had to be hidden or had another purpose, it would obviously be with a completely different logic. The nice thing that you do not know - and I am sorry to say so - is that, because I, too, sought exactly what happened and what happened, yes, of course, the Minister of Culture was there in order to expose the positions of the Ministry of Culture, but in the end this debate came to the future of the Council of State, which you know is a historic building and belongs to the Ministry of Culture, and how it can be maintained. Finally, stop this conversation. You understand it's outside any political reality and it doesn't help anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u218	No, my colleague, I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, this is a vertical misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u220	No, I'm not giving you the floor. Please. You have no say and nothing is recorded than you say. Mr. Papadimitriou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u222	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u223	Please! You have a parliamentary representative. If the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman wants, he can intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u224	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Ragosi, after Mr. Maraveya and after the break. Please. Go on, Mr. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u226	I do not have much to say about the bill that there are many interesting things to say. I just wanted to point out how close and how helpful it is in the law that was adopted by the House a few days ago in finally dealing with the huge debt problem which is burdening our fellow citizens and which is unjustly burdening them with having put them in a debt trap. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Perhaps there has been insufficient experience in our country so that when the charge began, there is no overcompensation. Few had experienced the overcompensation of businesses in the late 1970s and early 1980s and what adverse effects this had. But to individuals and households we had never felt this problem. It is therefore coming to supplement what the House has supported and legislated and which, of course, will be judged in life whether it can be implemented effectively, but above all, that there is also a doubt that some of its colleagues, especially the opposition colleagues, might have had that there is a trap in the court too. Because too many were trapped in: "Go there, filed the request for revenge, take a date, which is now 2032, and until then you are better than your other fellow citizens, the other people with whom you have to share the same problems and situations very often, that is to say have a house that you can pay to live in comfort". That is what we are now giving a solution, and I imagine that this solution must be supported by all the wings, for all of them to find their point. A simple calculation based on the information we heard here in Parliament shows the following: Take only the fourth quarter of 2019. The cases which have come to trial one on both sides are dismissed. If you add another number that is ninety-nine cases, which have been postponed for another reason and which has not finally been dealt with, and which is generally another reason why a solution has been found with the bank, and the one who had appealed to justice prefers to the solution with the bank, if you add them, the eight out of ten cases are either rejected, or they have no follow-up, but they certainly do not have what is advertised and which has so much to worry about the Civic Opposition that they are losing protection. What the courts do in the two other cases is that they regulate. These regulations - and you will allow me to tell you why I have specifically dealt with seeing cases after one another - which are made by the courts are not always better than the regulations that the banks are now doing. And that's what's important. Although the court must be the last citizen's appeal, but until then it must be able to solve its problems differently, in part with what the new piece of legislation I referred to and which we voted on some time ago. Mostly, however, responsibility is in the banks. It is a huge responsibility to the banks not only because they borrowed without restraint, and they should have had when the situation of easy credit existed, but because they did not then have to find quick solutions to the problems created by the crisis and by high lending. It is partly justified - and I must say this - that the Civic Opposition before it became a government, so for too many years it has created a hunter regime against any bank clerk who would have made a decision to regulate debt. Already at the moment, the chairman of the Management Committee of the Union of Non-Service Loans, said this by giving the example of the National Bank, to which he is the Director-General: Only in the National Bank since the beginning of 2019, 2 billion house loans that were outstanding at Law.3869 and about half a billion of it voluntarily resigned from the law and took other products of the same bank. There are solutions. But we need to deal with it in a sense to find solutions to the people who are trapped. And I think this is the important thing in the draft law that we are discussing and you will see that this is what is going on. In other words, I would just like to ask you one question, because we had a debate with our previous colleague this morning, that is, after midnight, in public. How is it possible to continue this criticism, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to say that it is the fault that the ships are filled with, that they are filled with planes, which neither the first nor the second ones have ever filled, nor are they then to blame for the exacerbation that we have in cases today? It's as unscientific as the anti-scientific method you've adopted as Anti-Policy. We don't mind, not at all. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will give the floor for two minutes to the Secretary of State for the Interior to be placed on the amendment and immediately thereafter Mr Maraveyas will be speaking from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say a few words about the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior. There is a series of arrangements, which are of a very urgent nature, on the one hand, due to the end of the administrative support that existed in the towns, especially the municipalities where an extension is given this time and about a year, in order to finalise the operation of the services and to adapt to the actual data, because for ten years there has been this looseness, there is administrative support, which was foreseen in 2010 with "KARIKRATH". Unfortunately, we have fallen on the recruitment restriction. Many municipalities will never be able to build a town, so we need to see a way, especially small municipalities, of how they can be supported, above all, for the benefit of the citizens. There has been a very close cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, which also made a relevant press release today. We will also make use of new technologies, on the one hand, to simplify the administrative burden of the service, but, on the other hand, we will see, at an inter-university level, how it will be permanently regulated, how citizens are better served. The second provision relates to an existing provision from 1994 on the regions and since 2007 on codified for municipalities and on the possibility of recruiting staff of up to eight months on the possibility of protecting public health. Here, in fact, the only change that is being made is that there is no restriction for the regions that exist and there was not in the municipalities that they should only be doctors and nurses and that other specialities can go through this process, particularly as regards the possibility of protecting public health, as may be a guide, for example, which is used to transfer samples for coronary tests and related capabilities. The possibility is to increase overtime by 30% for the control steps which are employed in order to comply with the protection measures against the spread of the coronary. There is also an increase for the staff involved in financial services to correct squares, given that there is a great workload in order to clear the statements by 30 November. Finally, there is the possibility of donating from local authorities, municipalities, regions or their collective bodies to nursing establishments or other public-private equipment for the protection of the koruna or tests. We also expressly provide for the removal of any doubt that municipalities and regions can carry out a coronary test for officials, because there were issues with some Commissioners who had doubts as to whether they were expressly provided for. We dismiss the obligation to pay rent in candles which are employed in structures for which their operation has been suspended, such as the CAP. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is the article on the electronic vote on the service councils. I would say that it is an important innovation and it is an innovation, which adapts us to the new era, and it is a sign that the electoral process can safely adapt to the new circumstances. I'm trying to understand the reactions that exist. I cannot fully understand them. I would say that electronic voting also ensures greater participation of workers in the service councils, helps to better express their composition and the expression of their opinion about who should represent them in the service councils. I would also say from the last few days a characteristic example of the fact that non-traditional modes of voting, but which have the guarantees of transparency, the secrecy of voting and all other parameters, which are necessary, are very important because they enable a part of the world to be expressed. In the United States, for example, forty millions of people were voted for by schizophrenic vote, and this led to a historically high record of participation and it is a country that is renowned for the low participation of citizens in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Maraveyas has the floor now and we will close this part of the procedure to make the decontamination of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with today's announcement of horizontal measures for the pandemic by the Prime Minister. It is, in my opinion, a leading act of responsibility that puts everyone's health above all other thoughts. At the same time, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is taking immediate initiatives for the financial relief of both the affected enterprises and their employees. New dose, regulation and VAT suspensions for those affected by the second Krone wave of more than EUR 1 billion in 2020 alone. Their repayment will begin after April 2021. In addition to the emergency financial package of 2.3 billion, which was announced last Saturday, the Government proceeded to even greater disbursements for enterprises which closed off by a public authority, for whose workers the contract of employment is first suspended, but also for those who were beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation. We are not only talking about the payment of eight hundred euros a month to every worker, but also about the full coverage of the State's contribution budget for the entire period of suspension. The possibility of suspending the payment of instalments for their already regulated tax debts will also be offered to workers with a contract suspension and that payment will also be postponed at the end of the applicable arrangement. Finally, for all unemployed people, the OAED benefits which expired or end in December by two months are directly extended. Minister, after this small, but necessary intervention because of the timeliness, I return to our main issue, which is a truly reform bill, which sets the framework for the future development of the computer file in the field of justice. It is a truly innovative tool for managing accumulated pending cases of Katseli law that prepares the next faster steps towards digital justice for all its branches. In particular, the submission of a request for redefinition of these cases shall be established by means of an electronic platform to facilitate stakeholders. The result is both the cost savings and the time savings with the possibility of electronic notifications relating to the speeding up of the procedure and other procedural acts. Therefore, using the new electronic platform, it is ensured that a large group of accumulated cases is quickened without questioning the protection of personal data as a minimum. Let us note that the design of this platform is primarily to protect the interests of borrowers, who will acquire almost directly all the necessary tax and banking documents, without being set up in queues or conspiracy specifically at this time. But the odd thing with this arrangement is that we have the Civic Opposition to denounce it and claim that it is supposedly distorting the Katseli law. It is worth wondering how a regulation that speeds up the delivery of justice and the judicial protection of borrowers really needs it. But let us leave the reasonable arguments with which, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA in general, you are probably not doing well. Is it possible for the party that voted against the Katseli law when it first came to Parliament to be cut out for its literal application, just as the original text predicted? Madam President, in compliance with the case-law of the Court of Justice of Strasbourg, Article 32 of the bill lays down procedural rules concerning the application of the principle which prohibits double sanction for the same infringement. In particular, in cases of smuggling and tax evasion, where legislation provides for both administrative and criminal sanctions, the proposed regulation provides for the suspension of the criminal proceedings until the irreversible resolution of the dispute before the administrative courts. This ensures that the relevant administrative fines are collected without prejudice to the criminal conviction of the persons who commit the offences concerned. I would remind you that the proposed regulation has also been deemed, not only constitutional, but also necessary, in a series of judgments by the Supreme Courts and our own country. But you, ladies and gentlemen, do not agree with SYRIZA. You obviously have more legal knowledge than all the highest courts, both Greek and European. So, contrary to justice, SYRIZA is again discovering by biased and curious arrangements, which allegedly raise many questions about their feasibility. What benefit does it not explain to us, since there is no violation of criminal law, neither for tax-raisers nor for smugglers. What are just those who are supposedly benefiting from these settings? That's not what SYRIZA tells us either, but you let it be understood that you know certain names. Well, to finish with the new conspiracy theories, which are probably again directed at'sprayed', anyone who knows names from smugglers will do well to do so in justice. And those who claim that they are allegedly violating criminal offences are good either to open their legal books or to find good lawyers. In any case, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will proceed to self-evident measures of dismantling and speeding up justice, without listening to your hysterical critics or lateral critics of those who are positive for the good of the country and all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take a ten-minute break to decontamination of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Mr. Psychoeuu from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u233	Madam President, the Minister had already made one speech on a point raised by Mrs Anagnostopoulou and other colleagues. The President from whom you received the Chair was unresolved, and I would like to make a small speech on what the Minister said just after the break.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u234	That my colleague should speak because I have spoken to him and then I shall give you the floor. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the news. In particular, the government has been administering, in recent years, in contradictions and revolts, which have also shaken the public's confidence in the state. It was a management which did not take advantage of the time given to it by society, with great sacrifices, maturity, seriousness, compliance and solidarity, by the first-line workers, who you did not support at all, the operators of the sectors that were affected and, of course, the Anti-Civilisation, which was backed up without that being a given one. For we see other countries, such as Spain, where there the right-wing People's Party followed another line towards the government of the country. All this shows that you have had all the data, together with the 37 billion pillows, together with the financial constraints of Europe that are not there now, and instead you have done nothing or almost nothing at all in this time that you have been given and which you have to take advantage of by making substantial intervention by the state, as you have owed, but that, as neoliberals, you may think of as harm and cost of having large public investment or policies in this period, so that the hospitals do not get strengthened after that or the schools. In the National Health System, recruitments were minimal. None permanent. Five thousand people less than those in 2019. A third is paying for the tests. No use has been made of primary health. We see complete indifference and abandonment of vulnerable groups, elderly, refugees and Roma in the areas where they live. Of course, there have been very few recruitments in schools compared to the required ones. Reinforcement of cleaning services was insufficient. We see classes with twenty-five and twenty-seven, which you legislated on changing the law of SYRIZA. And we had the pragmy with the masks. In the media there has been a complete failure, absolutely nothing, while in other countries there are specific policies and interventions that have reduced crowding. We read that in the focus 70% of the non-refundable subsidy, based on the 2019 turnover, is given to Germany, while in the country only given with great difficulty, advances and regional programmes are currently excluded from the ESRB by micro and small enterprises. And some people ask what SYRIZA would do. There's a political courage here. SYRIZA of twenty-thousand hirings in health, positive estimates of hospitals, the opening of tens of clinics in the country, the record of recruitment of substitutes in mid-memorandums, the twenty-two children in classes, the increase in the budget for health and education, the rationalisation of the OSTH, the intertwined OSTH that you led there. Two hundred seventy trolleybuses and buses are sitting, while SYRIZA's competitions have frozen. And within all this and the enormous responsibilities you have for untimely shielding and preparing for the second wave, you legislate the most anti-social, unfair majority. You are serving a few, strong and powerful people who support you and you must in every way, even in these circumstances, urgent, difficult, critical, cash your political notes. You are caring for the welfare state and the welfare policies, you are giving the first home north to the banks with the new bankruptcy and you are finishing it with today's bill, you are cutting off our jobs and you are turning us back to the middle ages, and there is no indication of what is going on in other European countries in any of the gold-paid channels, and of course, at the least possible cost for your neoliberal logic, against those citizens who have endured and who have suffered a lot and who have survived. In our bill. Subsequent to the Banking Code that does not provide any protection for the citizens and their first residence, with auctions for the majority of the three years that they have to pay, but for vulnerable households a dozen years, which no one will be able to implement and lose their home, is coming with the current bill to end and any protection was available from the outstanding requests of the Katseli Act where, consistently, the borrowers paid the instalments of the provisional order. "We live Home", then, without a home or "We live Home" with a daily bombardment of predators and no weapons against them for the citizens. They are protected throughout Europe. Here we find the opportunity to serve the banks completely, to dive into them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] More specifically, you say that the SYRIZA government was committed by 31 December 2021 to clear the cases. That doesn't tell us which law would do that, how SYRIZA would do it. Of course, there would never be a more unfavourable procedural regime for thirty - six thousand applications, which are manageable in size. Of course, in the exceptional circumstances, which we would obviously ask for an extension and even a favourable regulation on these cases, you are now saying that we have taken this obligation. We took it, but with whom law we would do it, who we would favour, and without any discounts on procedural rights. There is an update and re-submission of applications by electronic platform in suffocating deadlines, where the time needed for supporting the documents and the matter is huge and the citizens will not be able to collect them. Failure of a Member State to fulfil its obligations — Failure to transpose, within the prescribed period, Council Directive 92/81/EEC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the It is unacceptable, inconceivable as a provision! And the witness proof is abolished, which is crucial and decisive for the outcome of the case and we are only going to the documents. It's a hybrid structure. We say speed up, yes, but with an increase in the positions of the pacifists, depleting the existing list of successful people, with the employment of speculators who no longer have much to do because of the new criminal code.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Comrade, please close slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u237	Madam President, a little tolerance. It's a big bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u238	Please, there are too many colleagues who must speak at all. Time has been agreed on and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u239	I have been waiting since this morning and there has been abuse today by parliamentarians for the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Comrade, everyone's been waiting since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u241	I need a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Colleague, I want to do something clear. It's something you've agreed to since this morning for six minutes. There is a relative tolerance. All Members must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u243	I asked for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u244	One minute is too much. I've already given you more. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u245	I'll finish in half a minute. Strategic poor payers. The first ones are you with 308 million. Saving of shipowners and businessmen with loans taken by air. "With one click," you say. What click, on the platform and without a lawyer or accountant or like the OGA pensions that are two and a half and three years pending? You're saying there's been work on the provisions. A job has been done to cut off and retreat the banks' measures, but also to form a code that is dangerous and does not serve the conditions of the ECHR. You are abolishing the prosecution of corruption, which, as was done in Romania with Mrs Kovashi, was unacceptable and went to the Secretariat-General of the European Union. I conclude, Madam President, by saying this: take these provisions as long as it is time, which in no way help citizens. They're plunging them into insecurity. And you, with this bill, continue to put a bomb on the foundations of social cohesion and those affected. We will be with them both in the House and outside the House. We are accountable and apologise to them, and with our solidarity with the institutions on the road, the workplaces and the structures of the most vulnerable, we will be able to prevent these provisions from being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, when you get over time so much, you know very well that you are depriving your colleagues of time and that is not right at all. There is always tolerance from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u247	One whole minute you interrupted me. We need to change the process. It is unacceptable for all the parliamentary representatives and the ministers to speak, and then we.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u248	It's not the one minute. There is a colleague who spoke twice as much time as he did. And that will allow me to say that it is unacceptable in relation to your attitude towards colleagues. Well, there is always relative tolerance from the Bureau, unless we go so far beyond the limits, Mr President. I will give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragosi, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u249	Minister, with what you said in your reply earlier on on the subject of the visit of the Minister of Culture to the Council of State, I think you have confirmed that you are no longer only capable of doing anything, but that you are able to say everything in order to justify what you have done as members of the Government, in this case not personally. We are not only questioning the accuracy of what you have said, we are questioning the law. For example, the Minister for Culture has nothing to do with this particular building which you have referred to. I've been informed that it's the Philadelphia Society's building. What's Mrs. Mendoni doing with this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u250	He is under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u251	Take the floor, Minister, and say what you want. If I may point out that we are directly questioning what you have said and what you have described as being done by the Minister of Culture, which is the main, Minister. Why do you know what you did a while ago? You confirmed something that the same Minister for Culture has so far avoided from doing with the issue of an official press release or a communication, as well as the Council of State. You confirmed the non-legislative presence of Ms. Mendoni in the Council of State. You confirmed that the purpose of her visit there had to do with the ancients on the metro of Thessaloniki, this has been denounced by the Chief of Officerial Response. Therefore, Minister, on the basis of the reply you have just given, you are not only exposed but also accountable from now on. Why don't you have any doubts, we won't let that happen. It also recommends, on the part of Mrs Mendoni, an intimate intervention in the justice procedures when we consider a very serious issue concerning the Thessaloniki metro, a public matter, but also as regards your own confession and coverage of this non-legislative behaviour by your colleague Minister. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u253	I am really surprised, Mr Ragosi, that you have not been a minister from other governments in the past, as if you did not know what customary law means in the Council of State, where the Council of State accepts, sees and listens to the views of both parties. Do you know that in exactly the same way and once again, they heard from the other side and even earlier from Mrs Mendoni? Look now, if you want to hide behind your finger and today think that you have discovered America with absolute hypocrisy in what you know is happening to customs law without - I repeat - creating no question at all, it is your right, but you know, it is things that the whole world knows about. They are not things that relate to a specific individual case today. And we need to be a little serious in this Chamber at some point. If you want to tell me now that you discovered something, I assure you you haven't discovered anything at all. And it is a real pity that you are the Minister of previous governments and knowing what the approach and debate is in the Council of State is and, of course, hearing the conflicting sides in order to get a decision, to be the subject of discussion at the moment. It's a real shame. At the same time, I would also like to put forward some legislative improvements relating to the amendments. It's the report Mr. Voridis made earlier. I am presenting them in order for my colleagues to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u254	I would ask that they be distributed. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u255	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u256	I will not give you the floor because my colleagues are waiting and everyone must speak. Mr. Kamines has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I believe you will agree with me that it is good to provide for provisions that help speed up the trial, but it is even better to prevent cases and not go to court. You know, I'm talking about mediation, it's my favorite subject. It is precisely this coincidence today with the measures announced for the coronary, the general lockdown, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the mediation courses provided for in the law that was adopted a few months ago at the initiative of your Ministry are predicted that from the eighty hours of compulsory education, the fifty should be carried out in the face of the natural presence. It is a very important opportunity now with the coronary, Mr. Minister, to predict that all the hours of teaching can be done through certified electronic platforms, so that one from Alexandroupolis can be trained, so that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u258	There's a prediction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u259	For all hours, not only fifty hours. And since we are discussing the legislation today, I am impressed by the fact that it has not been affected either by government MPs or by Officerial Vice-Presidents the famous article 68. Article 68 comes as a follow-up to Rule 67, this scandalous regulation, which was passed by Parliament, by the majority, by the SYRIZA and by the JRC and introduced a completely scandalous regulation in favour of representatives and officials of the local government which had signed payment orders which had been adopted by the Court of Auditors, but then, in repressive control, were declared illegal. The criminal and disciplinary persecutions, even the financial charges that followed, this scandalous arrangement, removes them and stops them. Mr. Theodorikos promised then, in front of the uprooted saliva, that he would bring in a regulation that would mitigate this scandal and eventually brought us air unraveled. Why? Because the current regulation of Article 68 actually applies only to the future because it is false - interpretative and only for the future, because it in fact introduces a stricter regulation than the regulation which it interprets and we know very well that criminal law applies the most favourable law, which means that hereditaries and officials who have been absolved by the provision of Article 67 have been freed forever. Therefore, no changes were brought to the scandalous arrangement, the one that had brought us to the bill on citizenship. I insist on three reasons: why, first of all, we exclude a category of citizens from the law without any argument violates the equality of Greeks before the law. Secondly, because the principle of separation of powers is violated, you will find this before you at the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors' plenary will describe it as an unconstitutional provision. And thirdly - if I may - because I feel a bit stupid. Because I am one of those mayors, the many mayors, who have respected legitimacy, have been meticulously followed by a great mental test, we have suffered all bureaucracy and thorough audits of all authorities. And then we see that we were naive, that although we had been illegal, a legislator or a majority would come to us today. This kind of graceful arrangements between the members of the political system are also abdicating populism. It is not just economic inequality or migration that raises him. People'sism raises it and the theory - which you confirm with your attitude - that there are some elite policies and economics that are in a lasting transaction between them. They bring the Trumps to power. And on this occasion, I would like to say that we are living historical times. At the moment in America something very important is happening not only for this great country, but for the whole world. Why it will be decided from the next four years whether America will continue its policy of isolation, withdrawal, the policy of 'first America' means 'only America', the policy of withdrawing from the Paris Agreement on climate change, of denouncing international organisations such as the World Trade Organisation and the World Health Organisation, of imposing duties by abolishing freedom of trade, of creating geopolitical gaps worldwide, leaving space to authoritarian regimes such as China and Russia, but of withdrawing to the Mediterranean as well as that of strengthening Turkey, particularly in Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean. I would like to say that at the moment in America there is something of a colossal importance that also concerns us, it concerns the next four years and the future of humanity. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Karasmanis has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Koutsoubas also has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Madam President. [[At this point Mr Georgios Karasmanis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion comes to regulate all those pending cases in Katseli's infamous now law, as well as in modernising the code of lawyers. It is a legislature without doubt a reform that aims to redress the consequences of the loose ends inherited by the previous government, which since June 2018 had committed to the European Union that by the end of 2021 would close all the cases that were part of this law. It is a bill result of serious work, of great overall effort, of dialogue with all stakeholders and has the approval of the Ice Bay, so that it can reach proposals for concrete measures that restore realistic malfunctions of decades. And we owe it to the Minister, Mr Tsira, who is distinguished by his work, soundness, ethos and useful multiannual policy. It is one of the ministers who knows how to hear and solve problems, as it solves problems with a draft bill being discussed. We all know that there are our fellow people trapped in all these loose ends, who cannot regulate their lives, as are some people who have joined the Katseli law without being entitled to it. And despite the fact that amendments have been made to this law since 2015, they have been left to glean assumptions that have been set to be tried, listen - listen, and beyond 2030. Why? Because the previous government, although committed - as I said - did absolutely nothing to resolve these loose ends with the huge economic and social impact. So this foreign situation aims to normalise the bill under discussion, restore, legitimise, shield the rights of borrowers, particularly vulnerable and weak ones. But, at the same time, putting an end to the outrageous, unacceptable regime of the so-called strategic malpractices who take on their necks, but because of circumstances, weak borrowers. I would even point out here that this legislation will involve a gradual reduction in private burdens, this gross burden, which currently exceeds 230 billion. And from this Stepma I have pointed out that it is a roughly flammable bomb on the foundations of our economy and by extension of the national economy. We need to deactivate it before it explodes. That's exactly what the bill does. I also consider it equally important, ladies and gentlemen, that the part of the bill concerning the code of lawyers introducing the ministry and the administration of justice into the digital era, and that I consider it important to have the responsibility for conducting the competitions for the authorisation of new lawyers to be taken over by the plenary session of lawyers guaranteeing objectivity and solvency. I also consider it important that the exercise time of the new lawyers is increased from six months to 12 months for their fuller training to get ready for the professional track and receive more than EUR 600 from EU funds during the period of exercise. As is also the possibility of recruiting judges from previous competitions as a solution to the very serious problem of the proper functioning of many courts. But in order to do this, there must also be proper infrastructure. You will allow me, Minister, to remind our county of the great problem with the judiciary rooms which are in a terrible situation. I must congratulate you, of course, because after this debate with you on which all aspects of the matter have been examined, you have launched the integration of the judiciary of Edessa into the PPP at that time without any confusion, without biblical and press releases. I also informed the President of the Edessa Bar Association and the mayor and Vice-President who was a Member of Parliament who had fought on this matter. They were very happy to accept it as all of Edessa's society. But once again, I return to our major theme of the Judiciary Yannits. I understand your concern that two courtesys cannot be made in the same prefecture at the same time. But it should also be made quite clear and understandable that the construction work of the Judiciary Giannitson is more mature to integrate construction than any other court palace at any point in Greece. The current situation is eloquently unacceptable. The Prosecutor's Office and the Yannitson Peace Court are housed in rented apartments in a different building from the primary court. Both buildings are outdated, inappropriate, dangerous, unhealthy. And you know, dear Minister, the race I've given from the first moment, from the plot to the completion of a study. I am presenting to the Minutes - and I conclude with that, Madam President - all the documents, in number ten, concerning all my efforts to develop this work, which - I am passing away - should have been provided for in 2009, but uncertainties, circumstances and situations have not allowed it. I do not have time to mention, however, I am convinced that I can rely on your full understanding of the need to build the Giannitsa Judiciary. I call on you, Minister, after the lockdown has ended to visit Pella. I'm sure from the first glance you'll take, you'll find that it works in third-world conditions. I am sure that, from that moment on, any obstacle to taking a decision on the integration of the judiciary into a financial programme will be removed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Andreas Koutsoubas from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Katrinis prepares for the Change Movement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will begin with my position on the subject, which you have raised, Madam President, as President-in-Office, as the President-in-Office, on how to conduct the parliamentary procedure. My point and my statement is - and I should first of all like to address my colleagues - that there must also be mutual respect. Time is limited and when some people want to stay here for reasons, I do not want to say publicity, but at the expense of other colleagues, we are abolishing what we all want to say, that we want the Members to be involved throughout the entire parliamentary procedure. I shall appeal to the President-in-Office and also to the President of Parliament. I consider it to be abusive to Members such as the parliamentary procedure and colleagues, but also many times by the rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives. I am not saying that they do not exercise their rights, but they are abused by the Rules of Procedure of the House. But to speak when, in time, the Member should be able to take part, to contribute to the formation of the legislation. I am very sorry that, after a while - I am beating the alarm - the danger is visible - this Chamber will be empty because Members cannot participate, they do not take the floor, they do not contribute to legislating. Ladies and gentlemen, the institutional role of counter-population is certainly parliamentary control. But it is also another moral obligation and policy on society, on the part of the citizens, to participate actively in the formulation with proposals, with its objections, in order to reach an agreement. I cannot say that the opposition, like us when we were, does not contribute to this, but we must clarify this: in an ambitious and ambitious effort made by the Minister and the Ministry of Justice to highlight issues, just as you have been the last time - I am not saying that the SYRIZA government had undertaken a self-evident obligation, but also an obligation that we had vis-à-vis European legislation, in Europe, since we were constantly condemned - to contribute to the quicker administration of justice. Why would you be negative in an effort made? About the objections. We agree with some of you. Mr Minister, indeed, the objections raised by many colleagues and by the opposition have a basis. But in this ambitious effort, we don't have to be negative. However, I am addressing you, Minister - in order to achieve this effort, to do what others did not do by 2021, and they consider - as a fighting lawyer I say it - that this shortening of deadlines is not unconstitutional, because the constitutional legislature does not prohibit the shortening of deadlines, and the joint legislator has predicted a shortening of deadlines in both the Code of Civil Procedure and the Criminal Procedure. So you're going ahead right now. But what am I afraid of? That we cannot proceed to a faster administration of justice, and I have, if you like, the question of whether it will end in 2021, because there are many cases. I would suggest that you define a special peacekeeping body that has an experience to deal with just these cases and go ahead. You have the whole consensus of the whole House - you see it, for the first time we hear this in the House after eight years - to proceed to recruitment. That's what you're doing. Apart from that, I would like to combine this with what you said to me, Mr Minister, not just to say about the Livades Court of First Instance. Yes, it is not possible for a Livade Court to operate with a few officials serving a political department, a criminal court, a civil court, a criminal court. It is the Administrative Court of Livadeas and Thebes and operates with seven employees. So we cannot talk about the proper functioning of justice. We need directly qualified recruitment, which should be available, in order to serve these courts to get us to a faster administration of justice. I will stay very quickly on a number of issues that have been raised by the Livadia Bar Association and my fellow lawyers. The first is that you need to clarify that in mortgages, in addition to those powers conferred by the relevant legislation on mortgages and notaries, only lawyers and not lawyers can go to accountants and engineers and others and control the mortgages and issue them. It must be clarified either by a circular, as before, or by adding to a provision that you have brought. The other thing, which I would like to add, is related to the exercise of the law. There's a good try. I would like all of us to try, and the Ministry of Justice and the Bar Associations, - I address to those lawyers who are listening to us - is to go to an essential, if you want, the exercise of a lawyer's right, that is to say, to learn in the courts and not just to say that they are doing six or twelve months of time. Finally, Minister, I saw that you accepted some extensions of time. I think it is happening in my region, as in other regions. A deadline was given until 31 December 2020 for the correction of incorrect initial entries. I have tabled a request for this. I don't think it's in this bill, but someone else needs you to bring it. I conclude by: Acceleration of justice. The speeding up of justice will be done, Minister, and I have told you again - as I have said - that is my view. I also issued the previous mandate 2012-2014 and had received, as I told you, the view and the banks of Greece and all the ministers responsible, that we should go to decriminating provisions that do not apply throughout Europe. It cannot yet be in a country of Europe, a country of Europe, a crime - why you brought such a provision into this bill - insurance contributions. I have given you the explanatory statement. Personal detention cannot be a crime when it has been abolished by the State, because it cannot yet be a crime, because it does not contribute to the crime alleged today in the uncovered check. They fill plaques, deal with judges, judges, judges, pigeons, first-time judges with such cases, and it will be a good opportunity to make such an incision in order to get justice out of such a workload, which, now, with the current data, is not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that I am voting for a vote of confidence in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u264	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Katrinis now has the floor from the Change Movement, and then I will give the floor to the Minister for Labour to make a small position. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is at the forefront of a second lockdown with unforeseen consequences for the economy and workers with concern, insecurity and uncertainty for the majority of citizens. At this very difficult juncture, where no one really knows how long the crisis will last and what the consequences will be, the government is rushing to complete a policy which leads to the trial of outstanding cases of over-debted fellow citizens by concise procedures to the detriment of the quality of justice paid. Of course, then, it leads the borrowers to the one way of bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, the disabled citizen at the "High Impossible" speech of Lysia almost thanks his prosecutor for giving him the opportunity to account for his life in front of the Athens Parliament. Unfortunately, the citizen two and a half thousand years later will not have the same chance, since with the framework that will be adopted today, he will not be able to bring forward new claims or elements of his situation that have substantially changed to prove that he is not a fraud. The disabled citizen in ancient Athens defends the right established by the constitutional state for vulnerable groups to heal the wounds of its members who were unable to cope with their personal or family needs from fate or even occasions. According to almost the same reasoning, since 2010, the state has introduced Law 3869 for weak borrowers at the beginning of the ten-year crisis, so that they can rescue their main residence if they are in a position of weakness and insolvency. Of course, you will tell me the state in ancient Athens has given the right to any of its citizens to question the impossibility that each fellow citizen invoked. And, of course, the Government of New Democracy gives this right to the banking system today without, of course, providing for an exchange of property, because it would be very interesting if the borrower's fraudulentity could not be proved to be exchanged with the prosecutor, as was the case in ancient Athens. At the same time it compresses borrowers, since through continuous bureaucratic procedures it is discouraged from finally reaching the court, the responsibility to identify cases is transferred to them by increasing the cost of the procedure, is forced to collect all evidence in suffocating periods in the middle of a pandemic, and while that depends on third parties. Whilst they lose the deadlines they lose, they lose the opportunity to be tried and only the bankruptcy application is left. And if they still manage to reach the court, the burden of proof or non-demonstration is transferred by the creditors to the debtor. All of this without sufficient preparation, without the possibility of supporting their position in court by abolishing orality to test the limits of constitutionality. It should be borne in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that the judges themselves stress that delays in the cases of Law 3869 are not due to the ten or twenty minutes of the hearing but to the absence of peace courts for judges and secretaries with the problem of focusing on specific court proceedings. We believe, of course, that there are still 'tributors to Athens' as much as the pacifists are extinguished to make decisions based strictly on economic evidence and not on the particular circumstances that led a household to stop payments. As is about to be done with the bankruptcy platform, without any possibility of reimbursing the debtor. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's situation, Law 3869/2010 seems to be as timely as the weak borrowers who will be tried on the basis of their provisions experience the same difficulty and uncertainty as ten years ago. This will also be something that will have to be taken very seriously into account by the judicial officers. Bank representatives are requesting speedily with the claim that 40% has already been rejected because of fraud of the debtor, something Mr Stagioras said in the recent debate on bankruptcy. But finally, let us see who these fraudulent borrowers are afflicting the banking system, they are afflicting the country and the economy. I'll only tell you two cases. Decision No 450/2019 Unique Court of Nafplio. A staff member with 4,000 euros a month gets a loan of 2,500 euros and ends with a pension of 1,100 euros. Rejected as a fraud because he borrowed over what he could. Who really approved this loan? Decision 83/2019, Nafplio Peace Court. A couple with an income of EUR 2,500 a month is borrowed with a EUR 1,300 dose. In 2013, the wife is fired and in a weakness. You donor too. Thousands, therefore, are regarded as fraudulent borrowers because they have borrowed more than their capabilities long before they learn that the Katseli Act will be passed. They are not delusional because of their behaviour in serving the loan, but because they were misestimated. And that's not all that's done. Loaners characterised as fraudulent by the courts will not be able, ladies and gentlemen, to get rid of their debts even if they are bankrupt because creditors will have the right to claim all debts and after bankruptcy in three years on the basis of the provisions of the recent bankruptcy code. All because they dared to borrow over their capabilities. Are these the strategic malpractices that the government easily characterizes? Those who borrowed the seasons of aggressive practices and did not anticipate the crisis that was coming? At the same time as the government creates a climate of constant statements, they load thousands of cases into the peace-trials that are humane impossible to deal with within a short period of time, raising serious doubts as to whether the time required is devoted to these cases, so that they can be judged fairly. To conclude, I would like to support the amendment that I tabled, which enables those appointed in the courts by means of the recent AACC competition following a judicial decision in individual posts, as long as the organic positions have been covered, to be moved to courts or to judicial services having vacant organic positions. I would like you, Minister, to accept it. I shall conclude, Madam President, in 15 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, the disabled citizen in ancient Athens in 403 B.C.E. He ends up in his apology with the wish to receive a positive response from his natural judges from whom he asks not to destroy him unfairly while they can save him fairly and not remove him now that he is older and weaker what he was given when he was younger and stronger. The same call could be made today to those who feel strong or feel that they can wrong the weak without taking responsibility. Of course, I am referring to the credit institutions and the strategy that has been followed over the last two decades. At this unforeseen juncture, this invoicing of the weak, unfortunately is not heard by the government that is subject to the requirements of the strong ones. And it is clear that we in this choice disagree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. MARTIN, Vice-President of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I put myself in the bill, let us go back in time, see how this need for speeding up the pending cases of Law 3869 was born. Let's go in August 2015 and in the third memorandum that was ratified by L.4336, a law that gave flesh and bone to this commitment of our country to creditors. On the basis of the then legislative framework, the cases pending on 14 August 2015 had not been dealt with until then and a compromise had not been reached and had been determined to be settled for the period from 1 January 2019 and from then on, by diligence of the peacekeepers’ secretariats to be redefined by judicial means by the end of 2018. Unfortunately, the shortcomings in logistical infrastructure and rooms that would allow for parallel judgments, the secondment of regional peace tribunals, both at the level of judges and at the level of secretaries, with the sole exception of the Athens Peace Court and the already confirmed portraits, have led the whole project to fail. I said 'unfortunately' because maybe there was a casting of optimism about what would happen to borrowers. I'm on it. In 2019, the need to comply with Article 6, in particular paragraph 1 of the ECHR, for the reasonable duration of the proceedings and for the actual purpose of clearing the already pending applications of the Katseli Act a working group was set up to study and propose solutions to the 3869 procedural framework and to harmonise the ECHR’s requirements regarding the reasonable duration of proceedings and the effectiveness of legal protection. It is a working group that has also drawn up this draft law. If we see only some of the most basic points of this, we will be more aware that, despite what we have heard since this morning by the Minister and the Cooperative rapporteurs during committee meetings, the situation will unfortunately not improve. Not at all. Article 4a. The request for redefinition shall be submitted exclusively by means of a proxy lawyer. The responsibility for speeding up the pending cases is therefore transferred from the most competent secretariats of the peace hearings to the applicant and to his lawyer, while the timeframe set out in 4d, which is proportionate to the date of the submission and not to the date of the specified discussion of the legal applications, is deemed to be suffocative and exceptionally unequivocal. We believe that the shifting of the additional burden of redefinition of cases pending by the courts' secretaries to lawyers is extremely difficult to deal with, and even more so, to the level of their work, although it seems that you are trying to cover it with trainees, who, taking a wage that we all know its size, will be called upon to manage all this volume. Obviously that is your purpose as you extend the exercise period. Continuing, inadmissible, applications which will not be redefined within the above deadlines and which remove the validity of provisional orders by law, Article 4g, which is procedurally incorrect, 4th and proposals. The principle of the orality of the procedure as provided for in Article 115(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure and the classification of the case-file as non-realty jurisdiction is eliminated, fully applying the procedural model of the new regular procedure of Law4335/2015, leaving open the margin of export of an incorrect judicial judgment as the adoption of the exceptional evidence procedure, which in the cases of Law3869 has contributed extremely positively. In addition, pre-required documents are introduced whose position is clearly heterogeneous, thus giving rise to a reasonable sense of inequality as the borrower is at risk of being found in a complete failure to recover some of the documents required and indeed within the suffocating deadline. At the same time, we have the provision for the legal remedies of 41g, which is not only in line with the ECHR's requirements, but is in complete contrast with the general provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, creating substantially inequality between parties. On the one hand, the cases identified for appeal will be dealt with by 15 June 2021 in the course of two years following the publication of the judgment. The rest, which will be tried later, within six months. These few points show clearly the need for the government to comply not with the right and fair conditions, but with creditors. The draft law certainly comes as a string of the bankruptcy last week and cannot be dealt with outside the same framework. In particular, Article 152 of Law 3588/2007 relating to bankruptcy proceedings is amended in order to comply with the provisions of the bankruptcy Code, but an amendment which deviates from the person in danger of bankruptcy the right to bring legal proceedings, i.e. the right to review to a second degree in his case. Minister, you said in your initial position in committee that you understood the position of the smaller parties because they are not in favour of Europe. As far as Mera25 is concerned, because on behalf of this I am speaking, let me tell you that you are wrong. MERA25 as the flesh of genuinely pan-European, international, progressive DIEM25 movement could not be anything more than European. We note the indiscriminate anti-Europeanism of those who identify Europe with the unholy alliance that destroys it. Merra25 will never accept policies condemning Greeks for the so-called benefit of European interests. You also said, Minister, that it is a European commitment to deal with cases by the end of 2021. And that's where you're wrong. This is not a European commitment from the country. It's a commitment that SYRIZA imposed on her with the third memorandum and you continue. And that is our difference because the parties of the memorandum arc are baptising European commitments that poorly undermine Greek citizens at a time when we as our only commitment are to defend their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u268	Thank you too, my colleague. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind Mr Marcos, who has rightly complained before - I would quite rightly say - that there has been no change in the list. The list goes in the same way as colleagues are on the list. Mrs Bakandima is a parliamentary representative and, as you know very well, she can take the floor whenever she wants, as will Mr Bougas immediately after Mr Loverdos, as are the ministers when they ask to take the floor. It is now up to the Minister for Labour for a minimum period of time to be able to place himself on the amendment he has tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u269	Madam President, as far as time is concerned, you will allow me to go a little too far because this is a critical and important amendment. I am confusing the amendment in a summary text. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Labour tabled the amendment to the Legislation of the Ministry of Justice. It is a very important and crucial amendment that concerns supporting workers and businesses in the world of culture, workers and businesses in the world of tourism and the affected areas by the Janian preventive and supportive measures for workers. In particular, with Article 1 special purpose compensation for seasonal workers in tourism undertakings which ceased operating in October. On the opening of tourism, we have enabled workers and businesses - employers, hotel and tourist accommodations with the right to compulsory re-entry that have not been re-entered or re-entered, but their contract of employment was resolved before 30 September 2020 due to the consequences of the coronary pandemic with a unilateral declaration to become beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation from 1 June 2020 to 30 September 2020. The first article of the amendment, and for the sake of equal treatment of workers in the affected tourism sector, extends the special purpose compensation for October to support the incomes of the seasonal workers who, due to the early closure of tourism, are unable to work in the tourism sector. Special-purpose compensation of EUR 534 and insurance contributions on the amount of the compensation. Article 2. Financial assistance shall be established in the form of compensation for the remuneration of workers whose contract of employment was suspended in 2020. Private sector employers belonging to the twelve-month hotel industry shall pay the nominal salary and licence allowance for 2020 at the latest by 31 December 2020 or by the end of the fixed-term contract. For the calculation of the amount corresponding to the licence pay and the licence allowance, account shall be taken of the period during which the employment contracts were suspended. For the period when the employment contract of workers was suspended in 2020, the employer shall be paid to each employee as an leave payroll corresponding to two twenty-fifths of the special-purpose allowance of EUR 534 for each month of suspension of the contract of employment and that amount shall be covered by the State budget. Article 3. Special financial assistance for enterprises - employers of 12-monthly hotel accommodations aimed at maintaining full-time jobs and creating new ones. The financial assistance will be for enterprises - employers of hotel accommodations of 12 months' duration, employing at least fifty employees with full-time contracts and having been seriously affected by the consequences of the coronary pandemic. A prerequisite is the implementation of an investment plan for the restructuring or upgrading of their buildings. The investment project will be assessed by the relevant ministries. This financial assistance relates to 80% of the wage and non-wage costs of the State budget and is activated within two years of the approval of the investment project or project. Article 4. Additional measures to support workers and employers in the tourism sector and in particular in the 12-monthly tourism accommodation aimed at maintaining jobs. For the period from 1 September 2020 to 31 December 2020, employers' social security contributions for enterprises — employers active in the tourism accommodation sector who had in the period from January 2020 to August 2020 a lower gross revenue of at least 70 % from the corresponding period of 2019 and operate throughout the year, 12 months per year. Article 5. Financial assistance in the form of financial support in the form of calls for proposals from the State budget for enterprises in the world of culture which have been seriously affected by the consequences of the pandemic. This will involve theatres, musical scenes, dances, concerts, performances, cinemas and will be paid if specific conditions are met. In other words, in the theatre, musical scenes, theatres, concerts and performances, basically will be paid by the State budget for a fixed amount of EUR 10, irrespective of the price of the ticket set by the company per post, viewer, ticket, per performance for October, November and December 2020 and for a total maximum number of performances of twenty-four per month, according to the number of scheduled performances. For cinema companies, it will basically be paid by the State budget a fixed amount of EUR 4 irrespective of the price of the ticket applied by the company per post, ticket, promotion, for three months and forty performances per month. Finally, enterprises - employers of culture who are beneficiaries of this aid with a view to covering ticket seats will return 20% for the granting of social tickets within three months to vulnerable social groups of the population, such as SMEs, long-term unemployed, single parents, third-party and multi-text families. Finally, in accordance with Article 6, additional measures for enterprises affected by the Mediterranean Cyclone ‘JANOS’, which carried out complaints of employment contracts between 18 September 2020 and 29 September 2020, as, on the one hand, the operation of the enterprises and, on the other, the acceptance of workers and, on the other, the acceptance of workers by a company - employer during the period from 18 September 2020 to 29 September 2020, the beneficiaries of temporary and urgent measures to deal with the consequences of the Mediterranean Cyclone ‘INO’ areas of the country, as it allows workers whose employment contract has been terminated by a complaint from an employer during the period from 18 September 2020 to 29 September 2020, to become beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation from the date of the resolution of their employment relationship and for a period of three months. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Marcus from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not resist the temptation to take the thread of the debate where our Parliamentary representative, Mr Ragus, left it, as regards the Minister's reply to Mrs Mendoni's visit to the Council of State. Indeed, Minister, we must not lose our seriousness. You said that Mrs Mendoni went to discuss as a party in the Council of State. Have you ever seen the parties go without their lawyers? Or does Mrs Mendoni, who, as I know, is an archaeologist, have the legal education and utility to be able to discuss with the President of the Council of State? I don't think your answer is convincing. So we really need to be careful not to lose our seriousness. And, of course, four days now Mrs Méndonis is being provoked. She has avoided responding here and just now matured and after the multiple challenges you have been in the difficult position to give an answer. Try to keep your dignity. I now come to a second major issue, the pandemic. Be careful, the Greek society right now has two major rivals, the coronary and the Government of New Democracy. The coronary is something objective, moving with its own rules, with its own principles, with its own weapons. The New Democracy Government is not responsible for why the coronary came to Greece. He came as in all the world. It is, however, responsible for not shielding the health system so that it can respond. Why has the Prime Minister now declared a general lockdown? The figures say that in terms of prevalence of the disease we are right in the middle or I would say - because I do not want to be unfair - it is a little better than the middle. In other words, we are like the middle countries of Europe. Lockdown is disproportionately heavy. But he had to. Sure. Why? Because tomorrow, he knew that the National Health System would collapse, because we cannot believe that we have six hundred, seven hundred, eight hundred intensive care units available and when we get about two hundred more, the Ministry of Health leadership is terrified that we will not be able to manage the patients. That's the real problem. He left the National Health System intact, and he is right now afraid that the system will collapse. I'm coming to the bill now. I shall refer to selectively, Mr Minister, only two articles. One is the Code of Lawyers. A prerequisite for the acquisition of the legal status. In October, with the amendment of the long-standing presidential decree regulating the details of the acquisition of professional rights, you want to reverse the constitutional order that it had restored SYRIZA by 212. That's why she distinguished professional rights and academic degrees. It was quite special. And, of course, there was a need for the IATA to recognize the degrees. This is well-established and international practice. This requires the Constitution, which is really the Thermopylae in your misery in the field of education and in the area of public education. Our public education is excellent. Indisputable witness is now because of Brain drain the level of scientists leaving for Western Europe mainly. It is excellent and there is no other more objective criterion. You now with "Investing in Greece" have abolished the IATAP and transferred responsibility to ATEEN, which simply decides on professional rights. But what happened to you, as expected? You have objected to the professional associations concerned, to which you should allow them to grant the licence, but they are obviously resisting. Then try to eliminate academic skills and so start with teachers, private colleges and IKKs, public and private, who first took turns to enter AEPI. Now you're changing the Code of Lawyers. Look out, gentlemen. Here's how the Code of Lawyers was in the preconditions of obtaining legal status. To hold a legal degree, a higher education institution law school in Greece or an equivalent and equivalent degree in another country, if recognised in accordance with the legal procedure. It's over. What do you add? The diploma must include at least three years of legal studies. The lawyers of the New Democracy - I'm not saying the other parties - do you not creep around when you see this arrangement? Do you think the private college graduate can respond to three years of study in legal science? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. It is obvious that you are trying to violate once again the Constitution. You are torn and torn up in skates, such as justice, the organized structures of the state and all the relevant institutions. You abolished the Law School of Patras, because many lawyers would come out, and now you're opening private colleges with three-year-old studies to become lawyers! It's a tragic thing to do. You are the political personification of moderate and not excellence. We believe that improving the level of education, raising the level of education - not just education - promotes not only one society, but also economic growth in the long term. You don't believe it. I'm finishing with the report on football disciplinary and judicial bodies. I really don't understand why you're bringing it. First of all, it is positive that you are maintaining the staff of disciplinary judges and judges. There's no doubt about that. Why especially did the NCA, Minister? Is there something I don't understand? I'm in good intention to ask. Why do you refer only to the NCA? Because now you are changing and we must appeal to the Minister to the federations, who will have recourse to the judicial office to establish the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u272	Mr Colleague, please have to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u273	The federations have so far appealed to the competent judge and designated the list of judges. Why does this have to be done through the Ministry? I'm asking, well-meaning again, to see if there's any reason. Finally, the prosecutor's word is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Comrade, please. Nearly eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u275	Believe me, I won't embarrass you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u276	You already brought me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u277	He says the current bill: "He is responsible for prosecuting disciplinary football offenses to an active prosecutor with a degree". Now by this provision, who is responsible remains vacant. How is it defined? In what way is it chosen? Who's gonna make it up to him? It's probably some things we don't understand and we're willing to hear. But if it's not, there's something behind it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u278	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement and immediately after the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Bugas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u279	Madam President, as a freelance professional, as a lawyer who functions in the field of the competence of the Minister who is currently exercising a legislative initiative, I live in my everyday life the contradiction between the two things at stake and the two very serious things. And I hear what my neighbors say: the contradiction between the need to survive economically, small, medium-sized and large in the field of occupation and on the other hand not to get sick. Public health, economy, recession, problems. The second lockdown will not crush the state budget, because there are financial flows and there will be one. It will, however, crush hundreds, thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and the hit will be crucial. You are dramatically late and this debate will take place between the Heads of State or Government, and it will take place in the media, and it will take place in the House on several occasions. But I would like to insist on our general accuse of delaying one aspect of you, the Ministry of Justice, I mean. Is it possible today that no one can tell us how we're going to work on Saturday morning? Is that possible? "Will the KYA be expected to go out and inform us all the other ministries, but not you, what legal acts, which formations will be in operation? Are you a Ministry of Justice or a State Secretary to Maximus? You have to decide. You don't know anything about what's going on in our profession. And I don't say it in opposition. We've known each other for too many years. Anyone who opposes bars every day doesn't sound from anyone. But whoever guards his opposition criticism where he is clearly right then I think he sounds and sounds very convincing. Here, you, Minister of Justice, have - in the middle of a Ministerial Council which decides on this second closure - inability to tell us today what will work in the field of our own professional life. They confirm that, ladies and gentlemen, the members of the Board of Directors of the AACC confirm this, all the journalists of the judiciary, zero, with the exception of zero and zero. Everybody! I would like to raise two points, because I have no more time as the speaker. The first is about Article 65 - I do not know if his refusal has been changed - in relation to the merger of the prosecutors. I have a lot to say, because I was Minister when one and the other public prosecutors were formed. I know the troika was pushing for it. I know we were in the mood, the ones we legislated on, for an independent prosecutor of economic crime. I know the difference between the independent and the uncontrollable. We have lived through the second, strongly and the proposal for the merger of the prosecutors is correct. But beyond this particular issue that has its own logic, there is something else. In the Review of the Constitution with Mr Venizelos in the previous Parliament, we had said thousands of things about it. We had said how easy it is with the naiveness of the Memorandum Period and the pressure of the Troika, how easy it was to build mechanisms that an executive authority can easily handle them, wrap up oppositions in a paper glue. It was enough for a man, a man, a government with such mood and a man. These discussions were also held at the Ministerial Council, much more naive. Venizelos wasn't naive. Perhaps the rest of us showed naivety, but in the Commission on the Revision of the Constitution we were clear because we had the experience. This move is right and will in any case be tested by the choices that will be made, for the members of this new service who are now part of the justice structure, and that is good. But it seems, Minister, that the right move is a move that covers your omission. What do I mean? I heard in July that you asked for a prosecutor in Kerkyras who lost his file on the application of Article 57 of the Statute of the Courts and her post on a temporary holiday by the Supreme Judicial Council. He was an anti-prosecutor at first instance. If that is the case, I do not know, I am not Corfu, but I was informed at the time that in July, for this crime, which may also be a misconduct of human misfortune - it will obviously be controlled - you asked for the movement of Article 57. On the other hand, we've been prosecuted by an attorney from the Ice Bay, why didn't you move at all? You come with a legislative initiative that we judged right. I think Mrs Giannakopoulou has been placed on several occasions. You come with an amendment which answers one issue, to cover another omission. We do not understand this omission. It is the second point of criticism I am making to you today, beyond the ambiguity that all lawyers have about what will be done in our profession in the next few days and which makes us think that the Ministry of Justice is a State Secretary of Maximus and the State of Staff. I would ask you very much at some point to give answers. Please give answers on the question of the functioning of the courts. You'll do it tomorrow, tomorrow. I hope you do it after the word of knowledge. "The model of Thessaloniki," you said. What model? Thessaloniki's Arable Ice? Is this going to happen? Is this formation going to work? "Oh, we don't know. A KYA will come out." And after the NSA, are there going to be specialties? That's not things. Lateness is the whole of the government and ambiguity in a huge industry, which concerns people who are burned by your choices and who are also about the economy itself, is a disaster in these difficult circumstances. You need to show adequacy at technical, detailed, everyday level. And when you talk, the other guy underneath understands what's going to happen to him. Good, medium, bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Buga, has the floor now and immediately after Mr Zachariadis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor since several colleagues have spoken and all the parliamentary representatives of the other groups. I've heard all the opinions. Many Members said that the measures were well taken, others said they were late in taking the measures, and others said that the measures announced had not to be taken a moment ago. In particular, I address SYRIZA's colleagues, and I ask you: are you aware of where we are? Are you following the world situation? Do you see that pandemic today scans Europe, that countries with strong public health systems are crumbling and confronting the pandemic nightmare? The constantly evolving situation is a dynamic situation that does not allow anyone to plan in the short term. The Greek Government intervenes in time. He took and took appropriate measures at the right time. By noting the significant increase in cases and before the health system reaches its limit, we adopt the experts' recommendations and take measures to protect life and public health. Ladies and gentlemen, for us life and health are absolute values. At the same time, we are strengthening the National Health System, as well as our economy. Today, measures were announced by the Minister of Finance to support the economy and the economically weaker groups of the population, amounting to EUR 3.5 billion. This money is added to the EUR 24 billion, which has already been allocated for the purpose of the aid. SYRIZA and today, unfortunately, did not forget his evil. He did not hesitate to blame us for not following the recommendations of the scientific community, when the government from the beginning has been saying - and he does - that he is following the recommendations and recommendations of the experts. And while the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman complained that we have not listened to the experts, another speaker came from here, and the Step has taken down the head of the scientific team, and indeed, with an attack that was untimely on the day that took place. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman also accused us of taking measures today and we did not expect to see how they would deliver the measures already taken, without, of course, explaining either of the SYRIZA colleagues who spoke, what would happen if they did not deliver the measures we took last week. It was also said that the government takes incoherent decisions. In response to this, I would ask you to read the minutes of today's sitting, with the speeches of SYRIZA Members, to see what arguments are inconsistent and contradictory. In the end, however, did you not tell us, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, what is your view? Is the measures all right? Should they be taken? Shouldn't they be taken at all, or should they be taken early? Finally, you are asking for the Minutes of the Scientific Committee completely popular. Why are you doing this? In principle, do you know whether or not the Minutes can be made public? And what do you want to prove? Finally, I return to the original question: Have you understood what is happening internationally or your anger, imposes an opposition regularity on you in exceptional circumstances? With these slogans and opposition crowns, all you can prove is that you are in absolute discomfort with society. Ladies and gentlemen, because I would like to have enough time to talk about the bill, I would like to discuss two - three points. The first chapter of the draft law under discussion addresses the challenge of completing the proceedings opened in the context of the implementation of Law 3869/2010, the duration of which is or is likely to exceed the reasonable time limits, as set out in Article 6 of the Convention on Human Rights, the case-law of the Court of Human Rights and of the national courts. With the speeding up of the pending cases of the law entitled "Consolidation of debts of highly indebted natural persons" implemented, as did colleagues in the Opposition, a primary obligation has been imposed on European institutions, the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism, which had been undertaken not by the Government of New Democracy but by the former Government of SYRIZA. The legislative way in which the existing double-blind problem is being removed is quite clear. All borrowers with applications for them to be subject to the status of the law which they first expect to be tried after 15 June 2021 must re-introduce their application in order to receive them on a trial basis in 2021. What is the justification for the arrangement? The pending cases under Law 3869 extend, were discussed several times, until the distant 2032. Do you know on the basis of this data when the version is expected - not irreversible - final decision? In the 2040s. In this context, it is obvious that the violation of the provision of Article 6(1) of the ECHR is a breach. What we have to point out from the outset is that the proposed provisions do not make a discount, there is no limitation on the substantive rights provided by Law 3869/2010. The borrowers - and this is important - have all the rights they have exercised with their applications and the right to be judged by the competent court and their natural judge. The provisions of the first Chapter shall only introduce procedural arrangements for rationalising and speeding up the procedure. These rules are imperative, given that previous legislative interventions in the same direction have been fruitless, which is confirmed by the number of applications pending. The following interventions and axes were analysed by our rapporteur and by the previous Members of the New Democracy who spoke. For us there is no doubt that we are discussing a rugged and innovative piece of legislation. The new electronic platform offers significant digital capabilities, ensures the protection of the interests of borrowers and saves time and money. To the Vice-Presidents, who protest against the speeding up of these cases and blame the Government, I would remind you that the speeding up of the same cases had been attempted by Mr.4336/2015 who had then given three years to deal with all of them, namely by 31 December 2018. Also, ladies and gentlemen, because we should remember everything and not have a selective memory in this Chamber, I would remind you that since 2015 the banking confidentiality of the persons involved has been removed, while the electronic deposit of the documents, known as the platform, has already been introduced since 2007. And because you spoke about the consequences, let's see what happens if we stay on the status quo. I will attempt a comparison with the provisions introduced by this legislation. The borrowers, who are accepted, will soon know what their obligations vis-à-vis their creditors and will not have to wait many years to do that. Because after five or more years, they may not be able to comply with the rules laid down by the courts as a result of a change in financial data. However, those borrowers who will see their application rejected will be relieved of the obligation to pay the amounts they currently pay on the basis of the provisional order, these amounts in some cases are large enough, and if after many years their application will have paid a large amount of money for their economic potential without it having any return, because it will be offset by costs and interest. As far as the question of the time-limit for exercising the legal instrument of appeal is concerned, I would not say much because reference to the settled case-law of both the Court of Human Rights and the Greek courts is clear. It shall be for the joint legislator to determine the time limits for the exercise of the judicial powers. But let us now see what the situation is today and how it is shaped on the basis of the provisions of the draft draft law. Today the genuine deadline is thirty days and starts from service, and the abusive deadline under Article 18 of the Code of Civil Procedure is two years from publication. What changes are coming? The original period shall remain the same, thirty days if served by any party. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I shall also use dentistry. And while the abusive deadline is reduced from two years to six months. Good. What versions do we have? One version is to accept the request of the borrower. In this case, the bank, creditors, the claimants, should exercise their appeal within the abusive six-month period. Is that good or bad for the borrower? In the other case, where the borrower sees his application being rejected, or the bank or any creditor will speed up performance, the deadline will therefore be thirty days or he will be required within six months to clarify the situation and decide whether or not he wants to appeal so that his case can be judged to a second degree. So why are you demonizing procedural rules which, if you see them in good faith and apply them, lead to a speeding up of the proceedings before the courts of peace, I am sure these cases of voluntary jurisdiction may be discussed, but it is not, ladies and gentlemen, genuine cases of voluntary jurisdiction. They are differences, which is why the Ministry of Justice quite rightly refers to the procedure laid down in Article 237, because we are dealing with differences that the legislator is mainly able to exploit and exploit flexibility in the provisions of voluntary jurisdiction has referred to Articles 739 next, but also to the application of the system of investigation. Since we are talking about the application of the investigation system, you must know that the issue of disposal of the provisions of voluntary jurisdiction does not arise on foot. The initiative to initiate the case, but also to present the claims, remains to the parties. The system of inquiry is also in force. And I say this not to take a lesson from the Step of Parliament, but to answer those colleagues who think that a change is taking place which is at the expense of creditors. On the other hand, I think that the correct application of the provisions and their correct interpretation will actually lead to a speeding up of the procedure and will also result in borrowers know what to do from now on if they can be protected under the provisions of Law 3869/2010, which, of course, is not currently the case with regard to the protection of first residence, this has been abolished, or other forms of regulation of their debts and the protection of their residence. In addition, the draft law is introduced, and I think that this should be stressed, serious reforms in other areas. The Ministry finally takes the initiative to modernise the Code of Lawyers. The way in which the legal status is acquired is now subject to strict conditions in order to harmonise Greek legislation with the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights. At the same time, the power to conduct the procedure for the legal right is transferred to the plenary session of the legal associations of the country, thus satisfying a consistent request from the lawyers of the territory. Allow me here to comment more specifically on the issue of obtaining a lawyer's licence, and then on the relative position of colleagues who have even reached the point where they have proposed that the degree should alone be a precondition for obtaining legal status. This is not happening anywhere in the civilized world and of course it is not happening anywhere in Europe. In no state are graduates of legal schools automatically granted the status of lawyer. In Germany, for example, with long-term legal traditions, legal exercise is paid by the state, but lasting for three years. Lawyers, fellow Members, are retired to court, later to administration, and finally to the last stage of their practice in a law firm. Each trainee thus has the possibility of gaining an integrated experience of the legal act with the experience of the seat, because he goes up with the assisting judge, and has the opportunity to assist him in the draft decisions he draws up. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law proposed by the Minister of Justice introduces a number of arrangements that solve years of problems in the field of justice, such as amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, favourable arrangements in the Code of Judicial Chiefs, amendments to the disciplinary law of lawyers and to their remuneration regime, providing legal aid to our fellow citizens of low income. There is also another step forward in electronic justice by providing for a remote conference and the processing of decrees using information and communication technologies. It introduces arrangements to address the increasing staff needs of the FIFG and to cover the positions of judges. I dare also, and I would like to insist on that, an important institutional section. The unification of the Prosecutors of Corruption and Economic Crime with the creation of the Athens Prosecutors' Department of Economic Crime. So it will be possible for the Prosecutor of Economic Crime to oversee all the cases mentioned in the relevant provision of the draft law and, of course, not to repeat them because I agree, to avoid phenomena such as those described by the previous speaker, Mr Lovers. Minister, a proposal. It is very right that the regulation that you enter, but I would like to suggest that the new section should be introduced immediately and necessarily so that we can keep an electronic record of the case in order to prove the origin of any document, as well as its internal preservation, and that no phenomena like those that we have seen in the recent past do not appear to have documents or do not have documents and that we do not know how and when they came to the prosecutor's office of corruption. And, of course, we must not again have phenomena of extremely discrediting the prestige of justice that have arrived in the divisions of judges to hide or subject critical elements to very important cases. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of justice is indeed not offered for party controversy. The regulations of the bill are necessary and necessary, they solve serious problems in the field of justice. I invite you to vote in favour. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u282	Mr Zachariadis now has the floor from SYRIZA and immediately thereafter Mr Manolakos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u283	Mr Mitsotakis' decision not to come to the House tomorrow is insulting Parliament and also insulting the Greek people. We are parliamentary democracy as much as it tries to hide, no matter how much it resorts to protected environments, no matter how much it sends notes to media targeting Tsipras and published copy - paste by some media, to know that the people have understood him. Hiding no one leads. Mr. Mitsotakis, you're Prime Minister! Come to the House! The bill is a tail and a follow-up to the bill, which was unfortunately passed last week in the House of Banking. While the people are poor, while the economy is evaporating, while unemployment is scoring, while the deadlocks are multiplying your only concern, it is how this wealth will be rescheduled at the expense of the middle class, at the expense of the young people, at the expense of the young unemployed, at the expense of the victims of the crisis. You make the crisis opportunity for the banks and for the funds. Unfortunately, we're going to second lockdown. Mitsotaki's almost inconceivable comes as an emergency. The government failed. We had said from the first days that the rules and the plan must be put in place by the state and we supported them. The Prime Minister's announcement on 22 October, on 31 October, admits that the rules are now being put on them and we are running from behind. Why? Why did you not hear anyone who was well-trusted to see cracks in civil protection, because you believed that the first success was a result of the organizational and political capabilities of Mr. Mitsotakis, because instead of hiring doctors, nurses and making beds of METH, as they do throughout the world, you were slopping with complacency: "We beat the virus." "What if I wasn't a Prime Minister?" Mitsotakis told us from a Step of Parliament on April 30th. "As we defeated the virus, we will also defeat the recession." "If we had listened to SYRIZA with SYRIZA, we would have thrown millions of euros." You failed. You only succeed with general bans. Last week the Prime Minister from this step moved us smugly paintings and showed that even a week ago it was Moses, only communication, only slogans. And now we're in no time. We have arrived at a time when we measure free meth, we measure insulated, we measure people who leave life not as a number, but as a separate story or tragedy for each and every one of them who pass the test or die for them and for their families. And you have responsibilities. You said and said we have a thousand ICUs, but with two hundred ICUs for COVID, the system has reached its limits. Did we have to make more beds, like we do in all countries? Are there doctors and nurses for these ICUs? There aren't any. Are there doctors and nurses if the doctors and nurses who serve the front line get sick? Oh, no. Why aren't there after eight months? Cut 80% of non-exhaustive surgery. Make the National Health System COVID. All the rest of what's gonna happen? Your choices put us in the eye of the cyclone. Health failure, economic disaster. I want from this Step here to be clean. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will give all its powers to support public health and its employees, in order to support the economy, the workers, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, so as not to break social cohesion, so that we do not bend psychologically as a society, so that no one is left alone in the crisis, so that the Greek people know that we are next to it. I now come to the self-government of the bill. In Article 56, the former 68, we shall vote'residents'. On the basis of the report from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, we consider that there is a need for a serious dialogue with local government and its competent bodies, there should be no shadows, there is a need for absolute transparency everywhere. Those who are unfairly inconvenienced by bureaucratic stiffness to separate themselves from those who put their hand in honey and to move justice forward. We are voting against the amendment from the Ministry of Interior to the OTAs. On October 8th, in the Ministry of Interior bill on citizenship, the municipalities, the CEDE, SYRIZA told you that the timetable was not coming out. You ignored us then. Today, he brings it back again, he goes to set up construction services with private individuals, he leaves an open window, since, for their service, workers of all kinds and staff are counted independently of the employment relationship. There is, unfortunately, no mention of the support of the TAs with resources to carry out recruitments in the current period. The resources of the ATTs at this stage are reduced and will be reduced even further because of the second wave of the pandemic and the anti-democratic process continues where municipal and regional councils are weakened and the responsibilities are passed on to the Economic Commission, while the process of electing municipal and regional councils was democratic and proportionate. I'm going back to the subject of pandemic. He was judged, the government and the Ministry tell us, for reasons of urgency, that high school and high school will work with the telema. Eight months after the pandemic began, six months after the lifting of the first lockdown can you as government guarantee that each family, every child has computer equipment or tablet to attend the courses when his and his mom do telework? Of course not. Because the only advance you made to start the year was ice cucumber and masks "excellent". Ensure even now to students who will teach, to those who need computer, tablet and their parents the corresponding equipment so that telework can be done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unbelievably shallow analyses from the Step of the House for the economy. What were you talking about? At first you said it would be a marginal situation, we'd be at 0%. You quickly changed it, you said a recession of 4% in 2020. Then you said, don't worry, a recession of 8% in 2020, but a great recovery in 2021. Do you see where we're going now when the economics and health crisis compose? We are going to a two-digit recession for 2020 and a dramatic 2021. What's the plan? What are the initiatives? What are the policies?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u285	I'll be done in five seconds. We left a bill as a government of 37 billion. This compost came Mr. Mitsotakis and said: "It's not Tsipras's, it's mine." This coin is not even Tsipras and it is mainly not Mitsotakis, it is the Greek people. And the Greek people must help him, support him to be able to take the test up and not just make choices for specific interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u286	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Papaliou will then be prepared by SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the world community among them is being tested in the second wave of the coronary. The government and this time it defends the health of the Greek people at any cost, but also ensures that the effects of businesses and workers are reduced. Criticism is legitimate and necessary, but it is in our country's interest to avoid overcrowding and populism. We all need political leaderships, parties, people to show responsibility and to help deal with the new grim reality. Let some not gamble in the country's destruction. We will not allow this to happen. Madam President, I now come to the bill. Our Government, in disciplining the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights, which prevails in the Constitution, today brings the draft law of the Ministry of Justice to Parliament under discussion. That contract stipulates that each person has the right to have his or her case tried fairly, publicly and in a reasonable time, such as any court case. Thus, applications made under the 2010 Katsel law procedure should have been dealt with within a reasonable time limit, but it has long passed. But what is the truth? The truth is that this draft law took five years to come to the House, it was not when it had to and, unfortunately, a situation of peculiar immunity has been consolidated by so-called'strategic malicious payers'. So the Ministry of Justice is very right to speed up these cases. The Civic Opposition should, before he has rushed to criticise, make her self-criticism for the inertia she has shown. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that this draft law actually obliges the debtors to redefined their own affairs and, indeed, within short deadlines. Otherwise, the application is considered to have never been exercised and the debtor loses the protection requested. Unfortunately, when something goes wrong from the outset, without a plan, and without taking into account necessary parameters, as much as trying to'serious' it, there will be problems. The Katseli Act, in fact, was a benefit to debtors in common. And he may have had good intentions then, but he proved himself in practice and in the course that he lacked realism. The huge amount of applications and the submissiveness of the pacifist courts, which were called upon to bear more weight than they could, but also the systematic manoeuvre of the strategic malpractices to seek preliminary postponements inevitably caused great delays in the trial of these cases, with those who have been on trial many times even until 2032. This bill, I would say, is an honest proposal and is aimed at those who really want their case to be dealt with quickly so that they can regulate their situation an hour earlier, that is, in a sound context, without depriving them of any of the benefits of the beneficial provisions of the Katseli Act. In any event, the different deadlines laid down on a case-by-case basis and the short deadline laid down in the bill create a difficulty which, in my opinion, Mr Minister, could be eliminated by introducing a single six-month deadline and extending the timeframe by one year to exclude any possibility of being dismantled by consistent debtors, simply because they were not informed in time or did not receive the short deadline or had grounds for force majeure. Especially the latter, in this difficult pandemic period, you must take it very seriously and express provision should be made for such cases. I also believe that, in order not to call again on the House in one or two years' time to vote for a new law for the same reason, the large peacekeeping offices in the country, for example, Piraeus, which is my constituency and where I am able to know that huge delays are taking place, so that it can be possible to speed up the process. In general, I think that the bill is moving in a positive direction, solving problems of decades. It facilitates the daily lives of the citizen by reducing the procedure and bureaucracy and absolves the judiciary, which has been seriously affected in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the intention of this government to deal with and correct failures and uncertainties of years. The bill we are debating today confirms it and I therefore urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Papaliou has the floor now from SYRIZA and then Mr Constantopoulos from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely inaccurate to say that the argument or, rather, the concise version of the Minister for Population and allegedly accepting or presenting demands 'all for everyone'. This results from the way of opposition by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and, above all, from the concrete proposals it has put forward for all areas of public life. On the contrary - and this seems to be the case with the bill under discussion - your policy consists of 'all banks'. In addition, the fact that it is not populism also arises from the fact that the Prime Minister himself refuses, failing to oppose the Chief of Staff. The cancellation of tomorrow's debate on a question by Chief of Officer Alexis Tsipras is a naughty escape from the hiding person, otherwise, Mr. Mitsotakis. I'm coming to the bill now. It follows on from the new bankruptcy code, which abolishes all institutional and legislative frameworks to protect the first residence of borrowers. Once again, the New Democracy's legislation is in the interest of banks and not of citizens, leaving them unprotected even the most vulnerable. In fact, this is done in the midst of a pandemic, with the national health system being tested or, rather, reached its limits, since there were no movements of armor from the government, with undertakings being forced to close and without substantial measures to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, workers, farmers and farmers, all of whom are on the air. The new closure of the economy and society has already been announced, reflecting the complete failure of government policy, both in health and economic terms. This draft law introduces, to another vote, a legislative abortion, the results of which the Greek economy and society will experience. So while in many European Union countries the auctions are suspended because of the pandemic in our country, because of your own policy, gentlemen of the New Democracy, they are being facilitated and accelerated. In this context, a violent and unconstitutional intervention is being attempted by the Katseli Act, by Law No.3869/2010. The legislator shall intervene and withdraw cases pending judgment in specific courts already identified and this intervention shall be selective in the field of only one type of case, selected by the legislator. In addition, the entire procedural and financial burden of the transfer is passed on to the borrower, who must provide all the evidence and the necessary documents relating to his loan, within suffocating deadlines. Data available to the taxes, the MFIs, the banks and could be produced by them or could not be collected either because of the expiry of several years of their issue or because the banks have transferred the portfolios of loans under the Katseli Act to funds. I mean, he was running around. In fact, with the bill under discussion, in the event of failure to identify the debate within the given strict deadline, the request already made is rejected as inadmissible. This unpaid or legitimate update of the pending application means loss of legal protection for the citizen. That's what you want, that's what you want, and that's what you're pushing. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] The cases in question shall not be heard in the exercise of jurisdiction, the orality of the procedure shall be abolished and the decisions shall be adopted only on the basis of documents. In this way, judicial protection to which the borrower is entitled and relating to his survival is transformed into a sterile, immaterial procedure. Invoking the argument on the reasonable duration of the trial and speeding up justice is hypocritical, since the quasi-judicial procedures adopted produce substantial results and yet only apply to one category of cases, in cases of interest to the banks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only make two more comments on some other provisions of the bill. Article 51 constitutes a photographic arrangement after the seizure has been lifted after an eighteen-month period for operations in the press only. It is obvious why these enterprises are selected and not others, which is the criterion. The argument for freedom of the press in this case is at least hypocritical. There is also a connection here between the New Democracy Government and the media owners or rather misleading ones. With this arrangement - gift, air loans, loan and anchorages of the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK and the arrangements for debt write-offs of large and powerful banks, the Petsa list, the favourable privileges for the media are supplemented so that they can exercise their mission in the well-known monophone way. The question of who governs this place comes back again. And finally, photographic and hence scandalous is the provision that abolishes the prosecution of corruption, transferring the powers to combat economic crime to the Prosecutor of Economic Crime in a new department in the Prosecutor's Office of Athens. Photographic and scandalous consists of the time that is being legislated, when assumptions like "NOVARTIS" have been commissioned, promoted and completed by a prosecutor who seems to be disturbing. The regulation is unconstitutional, since there is no transitional provision for the continuation of the investigation by the prosecutor of corruption until the end of the day. Unfortunately, it is New Democracy's practice when it's bothered by a judiciary officer to abolish his post and therefore to remove files that burn and touch political faces and other majestics, as in 2013 with the financial prosecutors investigating the ‘SIEMENS’ cases and the Lagard list. Another blow, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to the credibility of the political system on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a little comment on the American elections. According to the results so far, America is turning a page. Even with little difference, the Baiden election is of enormous importance to everyone and especially to all of mankind. This is mainly for his unifying speech towards the discourse of hatred, intolerance and racism which Mr Trump spurred on in American society. In fact, I would say the difference in the political speech of the two men has highlighted two important elements. Firstly, a peculiar addiction of American society in the demagogy of Trump and secondly, a retreat of institutions. I am referring specifically to the way Mr Trump handled the institutions during both his election period and during the elections. That's all at the moment for the American elections, waiting for the final result. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic and the economic crisis lead us to uncharted waters. Lockdown is the last measure that the government assured us until yesterday that it would not take and will not apply. However, today is now a fact and reality for our country. Finally, it seems that there were holes in planning, and even in a country with low population density and borders easily managed, we have now come to run to almost five. So the government runs not to become the capital and co-chairman Bergamo. In its strategy, however, I would say that there is more communication and the substance is missing. However, the finding is one that the ESS is not armored, without health and personnel in hospitals. In fact, there are many calls, I would say, not to retire sanitary. Also, there were no solutions to avoid crowding in public transport. They are many questions, Minister, about the operation of primary school schools. In fact, I would say that on Tuesday when we were spent, the focus, thousands of businesses and workers who are now unemployed were again found. The government continues to promote society instead of action. The "we didn't do" that I remember from the late Charilao Floraki here is not answering. Why? Because you had time, gentlemen of the government, which you did not take advantage of. We have been through a secure situation in March - June in a loose implementation of measures July - September, to come today and be announced by Prime Minister Lockdown three weeks. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. We were telling you, but you didn't hear from us. Of course, today one is essentially the last. To hear who? To be heard by experts and scientists. And we say yes, experts and scientists are heard, but your responsibilities cannot be ignored. We have proposed measures, as I said, but you have basically been deaf. In fact, this is where we arrived from your failures and your recurring on the back, so today we are running. And we arrived here with paraphilis of the rulers who saw the vaccine coming, which in fact at least the experts and scientists report will take ten to twelve months. The result? The unemployed's armies and the economics of course on the plaster. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, therefore, the obsolete environment brings the government immediately after the new bankruptcy, this bill which is accelerating, I would say, in a provocative way, to deal with the pending cases of Law 3869/2010. I would remind you that it was the law of PASOK that was not passed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, by you and today you have become his honors. The aim of the Government, Minister, is to complete the same way as all the pending cases in order to end, in essence, by circumventing the right to legal protection for citizens by depriving them of a fair trial. It should be stressed here that by excessive burdens on borrowers for the benefit of banks, you leave the borrowers uncovered. I'm afraid we'll soon be in mass auctions. Ladies and gentlemen, we should be exemplary here by the Cypriot brothers. Cyprus has legislated the so-called priority clause of the borrower against the funds, in which, of course, banks would then sell their loans. It therefore enabled borrowers to buy at the price that the funds would buy their loans. So it enabled them to stay their homes in them, the householders, and not pass to the cords of the funds. We did not follow them, and we did not have an example of all this, of course, in a difficult both economic and pandemic and the turnover of small and medium-sized enterprises, to have fallen by 55 billion and unemployment reached 20%. Ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate on three points. Firstly, I shall refer to the prosecution of corruption. We in the Change Movement consider it necessary to return to the original regulation of the N.4022/11 PASOK. It was a law passed by the entire House and strengthened citizens' confidence in justice. I would like to stress that the Prosecutor of Corruption is an all-powered public prosecutor without being part of the prosecution's hierarchy, but which has caused many problems rather than solving them. Minister, the trial of acts of corruption by state and public officials must be done by regular justice. Secondly, I will mention the issue of auctions. We are waiting today after the new communications, Minister, to extend the suspension of auctions throughout the country. We also expect you to tell us how the courts will function on Monday. Thirdly, I come to Article 48 for the placement of judges in the disciplinary and judicial bodies of football. Judges designated by the courts and football organs may not be subject to other votes. Our firm position is that controls cannot be controlled. That is why we agree with the amendment. Finally, I should like to mention the amendment to financial support for tourism enterprises. The financial support is now as necessary as ever. But you must ensure that all professionals in culture are included. Here too, the 40% support for the number of jobs in these enterprises should be stressed. It is only actually given for the three weeks of October that the theatres worked. That is why we are proposing that the aid of at least 20% be increased to 30% for all closed enterprises, and that is in line with a similar adjustment for companies that had planned a specific number of performances. Finally, we expect the Ministry of Culture to inform the artists' registry and how this will be used to strengthen artists ahead of the second lockdown. I'm closing up with an amendment to the Change Movement. A year ago the government adopted an amendment on the legality of the proceedings pending before the Court of First Instance. We have put you, Minister, on several occasions, the unconstitutionality of this provision. Today, with the amendment we have tabled, we are calling for the exclusion of outstanding actions relating to the military compensation due by Germany and Italy to our country. Of course, this is also about the crimes they committed during the inhabited period. Otherwise these actions, Minister, are at risk of being despaired, since the sums to be paid for a judicial act are great. In conclusion, I think you should make it acceptable. Finally, and I close, we have tabled an amendment to introduce two pension conditions for both men and women in the public sector until 31 December 2010 and on the basis of the Court of Auditors' decision. Make it acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, too. I will give the Minister for Health the floor for an amendment he wants to support.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the country and the world are experiencing unprecedented moments in the conditions of a pandemic facing our country, Europe and the whole world. Last time was a hundred years ago. Today we have had a record of incidents in the country and the lockdown is imminent in an attempt to pull the numbers back. The Greek Government has made a shocking effort all these months to strengthen the National Health System in motion, an effort that has brought measurable results, doubling the ICM beds, seven thousand health workers in the National Health System, over thirty thousand tests a day, PCR and rapid. Evidently, the need is growing permanently. We are currently nursing three times the number of our fellow citizens in simple COVID beds. The tubes are growing and a huge battle is being fought by doctors, nurses, other staff and scientists to support and maintain the country and the National Health System and not to be left unprotected by any of our fellow citizens. On the basis of this, Mr President, I am tabling an amendment which incorporates the direct recruitment of three hundred permanent doctors to intensive care units.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u294	Please! The Minister will finish, and here you are. You have parliamentarians to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u295	The rest of them are the ones whose procedures otherwise run these days, and the rest of them are preoccupied. Everyone's going through direct procedures the second in the National Health System. Apart from these, the HR's capacity is expanded and strengthened as follows: Those who want to be trained can serve in the National Health System. Time shall be taken to the specificity of those serving in the ERC on the basis of COVID. In addition, doctors who are close to the retirement limit, retired 31 December 2020, may, if they so wish, extend the employment relationship with the National Health System for another six months until 31 June 2021. Private doctors are given the opportunity and I take the initiative with the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, the Medical Association of Athens and all Medical Associations to be able to serve a National Health System with a special employment relationship and compensation. At the same time, with what I think is an expeditious and rapid further strengthening of the national health system, I declare that there is an extension of the possibility of compulsory disposal and where there is no legislation, of private clinics, of working relationships with the therapists as a whole, i.e. by clinics, hospitals or all of them, where there are health regions and their jurisdiction passes, if necessary, to the commander of the healthcare region, while using the staff of these private clinics. And, of course, as we all know, in addition to some colleagues, this relationship may exist in the Greek state and in legislation with similar compensation. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that this effort we are doing is an effort that concerns and involves all the citizens, all the parties, all the Members, all the scientists, all the doctors, all the potential of the country. I repeat, we are living unprecedented moments. I am convinced that by fighting, trying and fighting together we will succeed. I would ask you to accept and vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Lykoulis, a parliamentary representative from the Change Movement, has first asked for the floor. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, from your style we understand your difficulty and we share it, I must tell you, on a human level. But here you are a politician. You come as a politician. You come as a government, the top minister in the pandemic, the Minister of Health. And what do you come to tell us today? You come and tell us what we've been doing for a month and a half, Minister, we hear from doctors and nurses. But you tell us, but they tell us. Otherwise, you describe the situation in the ICUs, otherwise they describe it to us. And you know, apart from our good day, we don't belong to them - I said it before in my speech - that we will make a direct connection from the infinite hospital space to describe the bad situation, nor will we sketch on the pile of pandemic. But we must express our political opinion and surprise about how, by leaping, you have reached today's lockdown communication to the whole country, with the last few days among you exclaimed each other by saying that you, the other, the Prime Minister but, the other Secretary of State. And finally, you conclude today between Kyriakos and Sotiris, the Prime Minister and Mr Tsiodra - which, in any case, was an intimacy which has made us a little bit of this - to agree that we will be saved by the lockdown. But now, Minister, we are staying with unanswered questions which you have to answer today that you are with us. You have to answer the questions why now and today you have decided on permanent doctors and nurses. 'Cause now you run and don't make it like the compass that lost the index and moves around - around like crazy. As far as the tests are concerned, you questioned them until a month and a half ago, and now you're running to Thessaloniki, and in one day you do five thousand tests! And why now are you making a public transport notice, since it was nothing to do with sardineisation, it was not a problem - you told us - and wear masks! And then you said it was the population and they must open the windows that, for security reasons, were closed and then they opened the windows again, there was dispersal! So now you're talking about medical clubs too, Minister. The Medical Association of Larissa, however, despite the fact that friends who are close to you, in your center came out several times and said that you did not consult him as a body, as a partner, you did not consult him and you did not ask him even when we had many cases with the Roma, nor then! And now you want the help of the medical clubs in order to get the situation out of hand. In short, and in order not to abuse time, Mr President - Minister, we shall in any case support all measures and policies that will make our place and our people from the bad place of the pandemic and the danger of the highest good, that is, of life. What we want to do politically in all tons, however, is that you do not have an alibi. Those irresponsible so-called citizens who were so disciplined and responsible in the first wave of pandemic and now suddenly turned them all into irresponsible - that's not it! - they won't give you the alibi you're asking for. In simple words, you are in the microscope of all the Greek people who are waiting with their breath not to be chosen, Minister. What hangs like a shade of grace over each of us's heads and above all the elderly members of our families is that they choose me sometime in an intensive one and tell me "not you, but you, not him but the other"! And that, as you can see, will be the most tragic thing that will have happened in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u299	I shall conclude, Mr President. One yesterday, Minister, I would like very much since you are here, to hear your answer - it has left a sharp head on this issue, namely that we really have over-aged people who have lost their lives affected by a coronary but have never entered the intensive process. "She became a pre-selection perhaps?" was the question of the publication. It would be a good thing if you could answer that. But there's no alibi. You're in the microscope, and the agony of people and all of us is huge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u300	Thank you very much, Mrs. Liikali. You know what the damage you've done to me. Now Mr Ragus will tell me 'why should I keep the two minutes?' Here you are, Mr Ragosi. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u301	Mr Kikilia, just now in this Chamber you gave the Greek people the ultimate proof of the enormous, giant political responsibility you have as government and as the government of the Ministry for the fact that our country, Greek society, the real economy from the day after, is entering a new tragedy! You are coming here today with the announcement of a second lockdown, a second quarantine, a second banner that is an exclusive result, as you have just proved and confirmed, of your conscious oligopoly not to strengthen the national health system, and eight months in your hands you have the hopes and expectations of this people to escape this enemy from this pandemic. And when we told you that you had no right to slip, to flee, to play games with the clinical authorities, that you had to strengthen your national health system, your representative Mr. Petsas came out and said that we would not throw away the money that SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance, Tsipras, strengthening the MITs. And what do you come today and do? Recruitment of permanent staff! Why today? Why not last week, last week, last month, in the past few months? Because you had a conscious choice to leave the national health system in his luck. And you are accountable to all these Greeks and Greek women who will need it, the non-genus, the next days and weeks of beds in intensive care units and will not find them, because today you have proved that it was the Mitsotakis Government, who consciously left the National Health System at his mercy! What other proof of what you brought a moment ago, while you've already announced the second ban. What's been blocking you all this time? Were you financially close? Did you have any financial restrictions? Did you have any legal problems? For the banks you run to do what the bankers tell you to do! You didn't have any obstacles. It was your choice. So the sole responsibility for what exists and will suffer Greek people from Saturday and then it is your political responsibility alone. But it is also moral and historical responsibility, Mr Kikilia, because all these problems that the Greek people will find before him are not problems that are corrected by law, not by recruitment, nor by redress, because they are about life and you know it well. And when life goes away, it doesn't come back, Mr. Kikilia. You're accountable. And the least you should do is apologize to the Greek people all the time, because you literally abandoned him in his fate and him and the doctors and nurses and all the health structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u302	Me too, Mr. Ragossi. The Minister has the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I am very sorry, but many points have been raised by my respectable colleagues, which I cannot answer in a minute. If you and my colleagues and the Minister will be kind enough to allow me to reply for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u304	It's a serious matter. He's very interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Colleague, I've watched you all these months. We didn't have the luck of meeting in the House, Mr. Ragosi. I have noticed and followed your style very carefully, your tone, the way in which you make a political speech, the personal targeting of your political opponents, in turn, behind each other, all the Mitsotakis Government ministers on matters that you consider to be of major importance, others consider to be of minor importance. All these months you have shown in your personal ways a attitude and perception of political controversy, which I personally oppose in politics and life. Mr. former Minister of the PASOK - Change Movement and now Parliamentary Representatives of the SYRIZA, your life and state over all these years in the republic has been recorded. You should therefore be very careful when at these critical times - your former ally and spokesman for PASOK criticised and spoke with another style and tone of what it has to do with the way in which we have to deal with the pandemic - you decide to attack directly against people, the Prime Minister, me, the Government with such phrases and with such logic and targeting that your party does not serve, in which there are colleagues who have a diameter opposite attitude to you. And I honor all these colleagues who have shown respect for human life all these months. You have no respect for human life. Your colleagues have shown patience, seriousness and respect for the people who are fighting for the National Health System and all that we have managed to save so far, Mr President. I am talking about very large countries, therefore, in Europe, since you do not understand otherwise. France tens of thousands dead, Spain tens of thousands dead, Germany, also, England, also, Belgium, the Netherlands, also, America, as well, the countries of southern America, the Middle East, too, Israel. You do not have the political bravery to rise to take the floor and say "Yes, gentlemen, we respect the fact that all together, the Greek state, parties of opposition, doctors, teachers and others, have fought together and you have all succeeded together", as I say all these months. This is the alert difference between me and you, sir, that I understand and have served and a team sport in my life, in all the steps to the national team, what it means to team games, team effort, national effort, trouble, hard work. I respect this to both myself and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and to the parties of Officerial Response and my colleagues. Never in the five years of SYRIZA's governance - and you can get all the Minutes - I have never been addressed to my colleague, as you have done today. So all the descriptions are returned to you. And you'll do well to learn that in times of crisis, need and struggle we all go together or rather most of them go together and few are in the corner of misery and with micro-political screams believing that this is how they'll pick up some pins. See what is the concept of ESS doctors for the head of the Ministry of Health, for the government and the way the ESS has upgraded. See what is the sense of society for the battle that gives all these months, including here others, apart from me who enjoy appreciation, Mr. Colleague, for the way they have beenhaved as members of the Civilian Opposition, unlike you. Now I come to you, my colleague. Listen, I'm going to be very honest. Seven thousand auxiliary doctors, nurses and others in the ESS within a few months have never seen the National Health System before. "Advanced" with a new TPE of a thousand square blocks to make new ICUs, new testing machines, axial, magnetic and nursing nurses over five hundred - six hundred have never seen the health system before in recent years. The "Save", an extended hospital, with aerial bridges connecting surgery to clinical and fifty brand new ICUs plus five that are now being built in motion within the coronary, has never seen the National Health System before. Tragic ICUs already built and others so that we can catch the thousands of two hundred in a coronary and in a pandemic have never seen the National Health System before. Recruitment of doctors, nurses and permanentization of four thousand nurses after consultation with the ADP in order to allow those who were also hired inside the coronary to have the molecule - the former health ministers increased the moleculosis when they did it in recruitment 2K. So will I, and more so, that these four thousand nurses will stay inside the National Health System. And what am I telling you today? I tell you that I have been running the procedures for many months for the recruitment of ICU doctors and that the procedures are complete in fifteen days, and I bring them 15 days earlier and their substitutes. Procedures run anyway. As soon as the procedures are completed, the contract is automatically resolved and remain in the ERC as permanent doctors with this relationship. In the case of APA, they are nurses, as far as procedures are concerned, they are doctors. So I say to you that they remain inside, that we have already set up for the qualified people for months, and we are expanding it, that we are also giving pensioners the opportunity for six months, if they want, to serve private doctors as well. And we didn't need all this in the first wave. And be careful, I didn't tell you that today we're going to oversee the private sector. I told you that we are extending the contract that we have brought for months now, Mr President, so that we can use whatever private clinic we want, for whatever reason we want now that the disease is spreading and pressing for the National Health System. You are critical, Mr. Comrade Petsa, the government's representative. What did he say? Did he tell you, should we go horizontally and check all of us from the first moment? The order, gentlemen, don't make fun of the world, don't sell fairy tales, it goes with compensation. Therefore, the Greek people would pay tax and the price for the clinics on the licensed clinics. When, and if it takes even a bed more than the private sector, I will take it, as I have already taken hundreds of ICUs to use and strengthen the National Health System beyond which we open up as an organised state and as a Ministry of Health. So, to conclude, because I really have to go back to the Ministry of Health and, indeed, because we are in the middle of a pandemic, and because it has a second wave, I have here, I did not want to give it - the publications of all the major European countries and where they are. They are deep in the crisis and are now deciding to take measures or go to Lockdown. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Prime Minister himself, boldly and courageously, decided early in the crisis once again to take measures like this, which we hope will have the lockdown in a shorter period than other countries, as we had in the first wave, will cost less lives than the thousands of lives that have cost abroad the way they worked. We hope this and our first priority is the value of human life. It will cost the economy much less because we hope to get in early on a lockdown to get out of the lockdown and return to partial normality, as we were open five months, as very few European countries have had this privilege for five months for their economy to function normally with all these problems with the coronary. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, I will say this once again, the scientific community hand in hand with the state and doctors aspires at the end of 2020, at the beginning of 2021 to have one or two or three vaccines so that we can inoculate the world and move towards a partial normality. And finally, we're going for the influenza vaccination. We had in 2018 two million vaccines, in 2019-2020 I found three million and this year 4.2 million and the Greek Government vacates the whole world to build a wall of immunity, not to go to the H1N1 influenza ICs our fellow citizens and thus have even more opportunity to be able to support the coronary. So far, there's not a single citizen left. I announced to you last week tens of thousands of surgeries, afternoons medical services, regular surgery. 60% of our ICUs are currently occupied by non-COVID incidents, traffic, heart, brains, as should be a balanced health system, which is now actually under pressure. Let's go to one last. Do you want to imply, my colleague, that the directors of the IMIs, whom I honor and respect, or the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, who I have in the Epidemiologists' committee, do not cooperate with us, or is there anyone who intervenes and does not do their job properly?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u306	I didn't say anything like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u307	Do you not know that, like the captain on board, such as the pilot on board the plane, and the principal at the ICU in the hospital, is unable to intervene by anyone, that he is solely responsible and decides himself and no one, but can no one intervene either in a hospital commander, a health minister, or a Prime Minister for who gets into a ICU or not? My colleague, you don't know, you haven't heard Mrs. Cotanidou, Mr. Metallidis in AHEPA, and all the intensifiers who have told you a hundred thousand times this time that when a fellow citizen has a final-stage disease, is there the ability of the director of the ITH to consult with the environment and his family, and this man to end up decently and not to be troubled, not to enter the tube? You haven't heard of all these years what happens to the National Health System, what do doctors do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u308	That's what we're telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u309	Please, he didn't interrupt you. Let him talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u310	So, once again I tell you this is a time of crisis. It's a battle, Mr. Kegeroglu. You're a fighter, Cretan. Inside the battle we have learned to fight and fight not to meddle, not to suck down politically micro-politically omissions of any site or those who do not have the courageous names to come out and name which director of the ESS did this. There's no one! I will defend the National Health System, I am the guardian of the NSA. I'll be defending doctors, defending nurses, bankers, cleaners, OAED children who have been sitting in for another year, children with special contracts, all of them. We'll give the battle, and in the end we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Minister. First of all, Mr Bugas from New Democracy has the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u314	First, Mr. Bugas! I was expecting it on staff, Mr Ragosi, but if we do so we will never finish it, because it will respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u315	And don't let him go!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u316	Let's answer! This is the most crucial issue facing the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u317	Yeah, but I've heard the same thing for a quarter. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Did you hear anything different, Mr. Pappa? I didn't hear anything different. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, it is and is not the first time that we have seen, Mr Kikilia, that many words are poverty. Ten minutes you spoke, in everything you mentioned, you made personal attacks forgetting that you are in these difficult circumstances the Minister for Health of the country and a question that is on the lips of all Greeks and all Greeks you have not dared, not answer, but approach. What is the question you did not answer? Why today, Mr. Kicilia? Why not last month? Why not three months ago? Why not four months ago? This is the question that is relentless over the Mitsotakis Government and by you personally. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It would be easy for you, Mr. Kikilia, to believe that when the moon showed you, you will escape by looking at the finger. But the truth is relentless as far as you are concerned. You know that truth, Mr. Kikilia, is in the mouth of all health establishment officials. Go back to hospitals, reread the announcements of the hospital doctors' federation, which have been beating on you for months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Ragossi, I'm not listening to the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u320	I shall conclude, Mr President. The staff, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u321	What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u322	...to close the conversation and say Mr. Kikilias what he wants is this: You know, Mr. Kikilia, sometimes the truth is a very strange thing. Do you know what history will write about you with what you did tonight? A word will write. What your amendment says. Do you know what your amendment says, Mr. Kikilia? Late! And the problem for the Greek people, Mr Kikilia, is not that, for typical reasons, this amendment is overdue, it is that you are politically overdue with what you are doing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Bougas has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u324	But I asked you to speak on personal grounds, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u325	I did not say that I would not give you the floor, but asked for the floor before you. And you on staff? Mr. Buga, you're going to make the knight, even though I didn't hear personal. You have the floor, Mrs Liikali, for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u326	Didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u327	No, he said, "Mrs. Comrade" and responded to what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u328	The Minister should include me in personal. I'm glad you differentiated me considerably. Minister, listen a little. One thing you need to keep from us to be clear words and a straight look is this: as we put back on the first wave, so we will do the second. There's no way we're gonna be relaying from the hospital space. I told you clearly. I personally understand both the stress and pressure you have as a human being. I am unhypocritically speaking to you right now. No flea in my crust and as a human and as a politician! But a pandemic, because it's just a crisis, it wants honesty. And at the moment we are, I didn't say you were talking dishonestly, but we'll tell the truth. All that you said very proudly today about 'Save', for example, for new beds, for the air bridge, etc., you did not say that it was Parliament's work. What would you say if the House didn't do that? The House, by contract, did this, Minister. You wouldn't have anything to show. So, say the House did this work. Come here boldly and say it, enjoy it, you and everyone together. Whether you do it quickly or slowly, you're handling these beds right now, because he said that I was personally wronged...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u329	Mrs. Litikoli, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, please, for a minute, for a second! I won't talk again. I'm using the three-minute. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u331	That goes too if you see the numbers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u332	How's it going? Let me say this, Mr President, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u333	Please don't be late. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u334	Minister, firstly, you did not say that. Since April this contraction took place and you know it, and we all know it, it was made public. But they've had to be staffed ever since. You're coming today when it's November and with a lockdown already and you're telling us that you'd do that. Don't expect us to hug your announcement as if it's something and in the short term, as if it's something and on time, as if it's you who took care of what you had to do, as you should, etc. Let's make this assumption. You didn't have time, you didn't predict, you didn't see it. Fine, but let's get out of here. And one comment, please, why are my friends listening to me at the ICU? We also had a hospital commander who was attacked at the ICU, in my area in Larissa, and who has been in charge of command, because until recently you have not decided to put us in command for two years. Anyway, he did great. Listen, I know the procedure at the IGC, because I had the misfortune to experience this process in a relative, personal and family level, but, Minister, I did not tell you about it. I guess I didn't make it clear. I have told you about the choice that is already implying - not that you are implying, but implying - in ICUs with age criteria and not for people who must not be troubled because they have underlying illnesses and are not being invaded. We also know this process. This is where we live, we're big people. So I'm talking to you about the other one. This post, Minister, you know that there has been a matter and a question from the press representatives to the Prime Minister. So that's very basic. I would like you today to have the honour of having you here, among us on such an important day, which you have declared Lockdown throughout the country, to really tell us what the situation of ICUs throughout the country is and whether this is or is not a matter of this kind, namely if there is a criterion and a pre-selection right now, not on the basis of the underlying diseases, but because we fear that 30% of the ICMs, at least as doctors say, on a pan-Hellenic level, are constantly filling up at this time. Is there such a thing or not? It's simple and clear. Mr President, I explained what my question was. That was personal, so you wouldn't ask me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u335	Thank you. I won't ask you. I'll let you know that you had spoken twenty-three minutes and fifteen seconds, then you had spoken for twenty-five minutes and five more minutes now, so you don't think I'm unfair with you. Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. Just one word to my colleague, Mrs. Liikali. Madam President, the government does not seek an alibi, takes the measures in good time and has the full responsibility for this. Minister, I address you because you must not be surprised at the attitude the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has answered you. The culprit in all his speeches, especially when he is addressed to ministers of government, is that "you are accountable and have responsibility and you will be accountable". It is therefore a repetition of the speeches that the honourable Member usually makes. Mr President, while the Greek society needs a combination of forces and synergies to cope with the second wave of the coronary that is plagued throughout Europe, it scans, I would say, all of Europe, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and its leader, noting that they have taken the first wave, half the consensus they gave at the time, decide to attack the government with an opposition ram to pandemic. What's coming out of this? Because a message is indeed being exported. And the message is, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this: Greek society has nothing to expect from SYRIZA. SYRIZA wishes the government to fail, to fail the scientific community, ultimately to fail the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to answer Mr Raguss's delay, for you, Mr Ragosi, the story will be written absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u337	Mrs Vayenna, you have the floor, so that we can move on to the list because there are already enough left. Mrs. Anna Vaguea has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Too bad the Minister's leaving because I had something to tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u339	It's still here, you've got time. Now you're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u340	Now let me talk about culture - because I wanted to talk about culture - after all that tension. First of all, I wanted to say to Mr Kikilia, who said about Mr Ragosi that his life and his state were written in Transmolitanism. I think he was a successful minister. I have this picture now. If it's something we haven't figured out, tell us. I would also like to say to Mr Kikilia, but he has left, that in the vulnerable groups, which are mentioned in relation to the coronary, we should also put the drug addicts from the centre of Athens. The situation is tragic. Drug dealers, unfortunately, perpetuate the center of Athens. You know, especially underneath Omonia with the includable fountain and the "big walk" of madness! It seems that the 'law and order' of Mr Chrysochide is not enough to that end. So because drugs are sold freely in the heart of Athens, because they cannot mess with drug dealers - so it seems, because there is a lot of money in the back - let us at least take care of these miserable creatures. Let it become what was passed by the SYRIZA government, the surveillance units. And if they can't be permanent, let them become mobile units. It's necessary. It is a tragic phenomenon that is happening in the center of Athens. Now, the bill we're talking about has been discussed by other colleagues, more experts. What I would like to say is that it is clear that it is another lever for our weak fellow citizens to get homes back to business an hour ago. Also, with this, you are ending once and for all, or you think you are ending with your great problem, your goal, Mrs Toulupakis. I will speak more about the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It was analysed by the Minister responsible here and in particular by Article 5, which concerns subsidising the vacancy of the sites of culture, theatres and other places. We are, of course, in favour of this article and we would like to stress that the 20% subsidy for the theater's positions is provided for by Article, in accordance with their permission. We are proposing and we would like this to be 30%, because it is the only way to strengthen and stand up for these businesses in the middle of a pandemic. To show you how necessary this is, let me give you an example of a little staff. As you may know, with my partner, Lucianos Kilaidonis, we have established a cultural area in the Metaxogiorgios, the homonymous area, in an area very difficult, with all the phenomena I described earlier. Last year, 2019, from March to September, that is, these seven months, the turnover of this operation was EUR 48,000. This year, during the corresponding months of a pandemic, i.e. from March to September 2020, the corresponding amount was EUR 2,700. We are talking about an almost 94% reduction. So you understand that these businesses, the theatres, the cultural fountains cannot survive without this exceptional measure, which is very important. I would also like to stress that we are proposing that a corresponding measure be taken for collective management organisations, the CSRs, those who receive copyright. You know, there's a great category of artists who live only by their copyright. That is, creators, writers, musicians, composers, etc., many of them, such as musicians, have no resources but him. These agencies collect from the use made of shops, in recreational areas, in leisure areas, etc. As you can see, now with the coroner these receipts have been zeroed. There aren't any. So these people have no other resource to live. In any case, there must be exceptional aid to organisations for collective copyright management, because it is a matter of the survival of these people. Please support culture. Culture is the breath of society. Don't let her get suffocated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mrs. Bagena. Mr. Nikos Papapas of SYRIZA, MP for the 2nd South Athens Sector, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kikilias was given the floor and he did not answer any of the questions our Parliamentary representative, Mr Ragus, asked him but said some incoherent in his style. I think it's indicative of the situation. Today the cases are at three thousand, the dead in twenty-nine and the intensive ones are growing. This is the situation, and of course we had Mr Mitsotakis repeating 'the engagement'. This is the second time that parliamentary control has escaped. He did not want to come to the bankrupt and avoids coming to Alexis Tsipras' timely question about public transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u343	He'll be here on the third.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u344	Don't do that, Mr. Chiara. Samaras did that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u345	No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u346	So Samaras did this and was indicative of the political situation, in which he perceived himself. So he informed us together with Sotiris, as Mr Mitsotakis said today, and he certainly admitted that public transport could be an outbreak of virus transmission. He told us, of course, that the peak hours are crowded and that he did what he could, he says. Listen to what he said, he did what he could! Obviously, what could not be enough, how do we do it? Is that what you got? That's where you're going for the public transport? Is that what you tell our two million fellow citizens who take buses, trolleys, electricity and subway every day? Is that what you got? A hundred cars parked because there are no drivers and you have seconded offices? Two hundred seventy vehicles can be repaired in a month and you don't. Is that what you got? You canceled the competition for the seven hundred fifty buses. Is that what you got? And because it was also the Duru that responded to the ninety-two vehicles with guaranteed funding from the Attica Region. A little shame! And you're standing up here at the Step to tell us that we're the ones cheering for the pandemic? Aren't you embarrassed? Are you telling us, where we were from the very beginning, which gave consensus on the measures to limit movements? And in the campaign we participated in the political avajo we gave you. However, you have done absolutely nothing and today Mr Mitsotakis admits that we are going to Lockdown, because there are not enough intensive treatment units. He said something else. Give it to him, Mr. Chiara, because it's a surprise to us. There is, he says, an online subworld, spreading that patients are dying from COVID outside. I submit to the minutes articles from the tovima.gr website. "THE VIMA" three days ago writes: " 50% of COVID deaths, according to an internal document, were deaths that took place outside intensive care units". We would like to make a clarification, although the Prime Minister is among them on the Internet. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He said the other, because he's suffering and no crisis of honesty when he doesn't have it written in front of him. We were wrong, he says, and we were reassured. Are you serious? Slightly say the heart, were you reassured? So, how did you rest? One of the other three days? Were the place, the international community, the opposition, the associations of doctors that there is a second wave and you were reassured? So you were reassured and you did nothing about public transport, reassured with tourism. We couldn't put a test to get the tourist into the country. Mr. Chardalias announced it today. We will be protected from the tourism of November in the middle of a pandemic. And, of course, you couldn't do anything about the ITH. So reassured. And to go to the bill, there's no comfort. There you have antisocial odor, antisocial vigilance, no one escapes and no one is protected from the house that has been doubled for half next year in the second year. You're making him preconditions to collect whatever paper you can imagine. Be careful because you also advertised the digital state: The papers you ask them have either banks or taxes. So why not collect them from banks and tax and punish them if they do not collect them in time? That's a reasonable choice. You will soon have people run four hundred meters with obstacles so that they can keep their own trial and do not remove the protection orders they have won. You have clearly a vengeful maniac against a legislative initiative which has the mark of a progressive and democratic party in that country. You have put methane to implement the inhuman Pissaridis project with the hideous really terminology it deposites and you do not use any tool at all. We heard Mr Stavoura announcing the same measures for a hundred times again. He doesn't use the tools. It's obvious. Let me tell you the news: the Commission's autumn forecasts have come out. You predict in the budget that we will have a 30% investment explosion - it says - next year. Investments will explode. So the Commission has come in with its communication on autumn forecasts today and says that 5% will increase the investment in time. Just so you have a picture. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] No tool! Katerina Notopoulou brought you the dames. In the fourth revision of the aid framework, there is the possibility of direct aid for small enterprises up to 90% for their fixed costs. Nothing, not there! Inactivity there, inappropriate with bank financing, inappropriateity and the Recovery Fund. Recently, are we going to testify the plan in the Commission, Mr. Chiara? Do you have any information to enlighten us? That's a mess everywhere. And the pain has caught you now and the final blow to protect the Katseli - Statakis law. Now the pain is on you, of course. They say the banks themselves that we will have a red loan explosion from EUR 8 to EUR 10 billion and you have found the solution to their management, to scan everything. That's who you are! It is clear that the country needs a progressive process which must in a coordinated way organise and guarantee the progressive forces of the country at both social and political level. Otherwise the Greek economy and the Greek society will be condemned to long-term pain, in long-term recession, in long-term misery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mrs Dionysia Theodora Agrinopoulou has the floor from New Democracy and the Prefecture of Ilias.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are in front of the second universal lockdown in the country, so that again we can prevent a deterioration in the epidemiological situation, I would like to point out the need for all of us, both citizens and actors in this battle, to get out of the coronary victors race. The Ministry of Health has already carried out thousands of recruitments and new infrastructures throughout the country and continues. In Elijah, for example, many permanent and subsidiary doctors of various specialties have been called on, but doctors themselves have not shown interest. I appeal on this occasion, and from the Step of the House, to those doctors who wish to join the National Health System, too, to come to Elias. After congratulating the Minister of Justice on the draft law we are debating today and which will actually facilitate the organisation and administration of justice in the spirit and the letter of the European Convention on Human Rights, I am taking the floor to applaud an important amendment which was tabled entitled 'Protection of animals, penal sanctions', which introduces an increase in the penalty for the torture and killing of animals and the conversion of these offences from a felony to a felony. Adopting this provision highlights the values and culture of modern Greek society and we hope it will act as a deterrent for phenomena in the future. In our national law, however, the provisions of European animal protection law and the universal declaration of the rights of animals in Paris in 1978, and in particular Articles 3, 4 and 11, which refer to the ban on biocirculation, as any act that is unjustified causes the killing of an animal and is a crime against life. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks, we have witnessed terrible incidents of pet torture which have only resulted in the laudable effort of some of our fellow citizens to die. The brutality of those acts is limited to cases which are not individual. They have sometimes also exposed our country internationally. In the past, we have witnessed similar incidents, while animal torture and killings may take place and may erroneous our attention every day. It seems that we are not yet fully aware that it is not only man who has the right to life, health, housing, food, but also all the other creatures on the planet that they can enjoy - and they must enjoy - these fundamental rights. The proposed provision inspires and expresses even more the concepts of animal rights and ecological democracy, as they were inspired and envisioned over time by great intellectuals, such as John Locke, Russo, Bentham, Thomas Kinestis, until modern times, Christopher Stone, Ulrich Beck, John Drisek, as well as many other visionaries around the world. As far as the technical details are concerned, Article 2 of the amendment amends Article 2 of the directive on the protection of animals and No 4039/12 on pet animals. There is a differentiation in the penalties between one of the abuses and the abandonment of animals, which are still being punished as a crime and, on the other hand, their killing or torture, which are now being punished - at last - as abuses of imprisonment for up to ten years. Paragraph 5 of the amendment also amends Article 19 of Law 4039/12 by clarifying the procedure for the removal of the malpractice from the holder by a prosecutor's mandate and the possibility of temporary or definitive removal of the animal from the possession of the offender in the event of its abuse, which will always be judged in the interests of the animal itself. It is important that the amendment retains the compensation system for the reimbursement of revenue from fines on projects directly benefiting animals. These revenues will be entered in a specific code in the budget of the municipalities and will be made available only for the preservation of existing buildings and for the creation of new municipal shelters and municipal vets. The upgrading of existing shelters is very important, as many of them do not currently meet the needs of animal welfare, and it is necessary to create new shelters to meet the needs of strayers. There is still a request for the establishment of adequate public veterinary establishments, as animal welfare is currently mostly the responsibility of private veterinary surgeons at their own cost. For wildlife all health care has been undertaken by non-governmental organisations and individual volunteers. Even greater bet remains, for both our country and internationally, the provision of secondary health care by creating suitable hospital structures with adequate dispersion throughout the country. We will even be expecting the next time a bill on the reform of the public health system for domestic and wild animals, as a relevant Interministerial Committee has already been set up. In addition, I propose that Article 12 of Law 4039/12 be amended in order to prohibit the detention of dolphins and dolphins, while the process of reintegration into the marine environment should also be provided for. If such reintegration is not feasible then provision should be made for the hospitality of dolphins in suitable marine life shelters. Greece, with the current leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, was internationally distinguished for animal protection policy as it has already received warm welcome from the international press and civil society, the legislative equation of pet horses, and the ban on their slaughter and consumption for other production of products. By converting the criminal characterisation of the offences of torture and the killing of animals from a felony to a felony, our country is now moving on to the adoption of another regulation of high moral value which we not only have to vote, as the parties did, but also to help to implement it in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, too. Here's a congressman who kept the time. Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis has the floor from SYRIZA and Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis 12 June 2020: "We turn summer into a sowing season in the summer of care, so that in the autumn" this autumn "to spring hope and rise in winter" in the winter of 2020 "and spring 2020 the warm sun of growth". I think that the New Democracy plan was clear about how our country wanted to go on the next day after the first final lockdown, after the first final ban we have all experienced. We all helped to cope with the difficult spring that passed us. What could have happened? And I'm staying on this before I get into the bill we're talking about today. The great question raised here in this Chamber, here in these marbles and across the country is what could have been done to avoid this critical moment, this very crucial moment - I consider to be one of the most important of recent years - for the citizens themselves and for our democracy. Mathematics is relentless and stubborn, Minister. Money was given in the time it passed. On the Pecha List: 22 million. In the suspension of the obligations of the canaluters: 21 million. In total, therefore, only of these two cases that I mention are EUR 43 million. Let us bear in mind that 100,000 euros grosso modo, average edges, is needed to have a comprehensive equipment base, a Clinic Infrastructure base for the reduction is simple. We're easy to speak of four hundred additional IFs. What's going on today? Why are we here today? Why are we calling on us to suffer this multiple crisis, the lockdown in the economy, the lockdown in our lives? Because the health system is being pressed. Why is the health system pressed? For right now we have a hundred eighty, a hundred ninety possibly tomorrow, two hundred. I just told you in mathematics and in my capacity as a political engineer that there were and there were infrastructure in the country. There are abandoned Olympic properties. There were eight whole months forty-forty days to provide care, to make the prediction and not get here today. Because this point we are today is the highest point of political opposition. I feel that if the most unsuccessful Prime Ministers in this country were to be paralyzed, Mr Mitsotakis would be a signatory. That's my feeling. And I always judge from the result and given the critical moment we live in. Throughout this roaming, in all this extremely difficult treaty for the country, what is simpler? The Chief of Officership, as Alexis Tsipras owed, asked for a debate in plenary tomorrow, in this Chamber, which the Prime Minister proved to be on key issues which concern the issue of COVID and more generally. What do we observe? What did we hear? Go away. Avoid Mr. Mitsotakis to discuss this issue in the Greek Parliament. I wonder what he had best to do at the time? I think this fugitive is extremely critical and will be recorded with the darkest letters in the modern history of parliamentaryism in our country. Because my colleague mentioned earlier at times of government, Samara. It has not been seen so many times in the Greek Parliament. Now let me say two things about the economy. An economy that, after the Lockdown and after the Prime Minister's measures, is very clear about its development. We're going into a new world circle in 2021. According to the first estimates, they're talking about 2,2 recession. This “V” that would have become neither “L”, English chapter. Let's go for a complete collapse on the issue of the economy. Unfortunately, the government has neither echoes for small and medium-sized enterprises nor for anything else. Why am I saying that? Because if you were to come to the bill now, Mr Minister, you were interested in speeding up the procedures in general to Greek justice, you would not be left alone with Law 3869/2010. Because here this point of your commitment to this law only demonstrates that the plan of confiscation of the properties of the Greeks through the Banking Code is in full progress. In fact, by means of the HARAKLIS project in November 2019, the bankruptcy code a few weeks ago. And now the tombstone. And now the third critical tank. A tank of Greek citizens. They were the ones who had actually been shielded through their incorporation into the law of Katseli - Stathaki. The second tank naturally concerned our Greek fellow citizens who joined the bankruptcy code, that is, your bankruptcy law. It's a de facto code. And now more than seventy thousand Greek citizens are called in violence and within a narrow framework of sixty days, too, into the bankruptcy. But since it is important in the very short time that we remain useful in addition to the stunning and our opposition appearance, to be useful in the draft law, we propose the following minimum improvements that could be made and to alleviate these unfavourable consequences for borrowers. Firstly, calls for the re-definition of the application debate could be made home, through the electronic platform and the home communication of these. Secondly, applications for which no request for re-definition has been made should in any event be deemed to be inadmissible. Provision shall be made for any inclination to be made until 30 June 2021 and in any event it shall not be possible to lodge an application outside specified dates if it is established that the non-compliance with the time limit is due to higher violence or to the fault of the applicants. Thirdly, complete elements in the request for redefinition that will not be available to the debtor and which are subject to third parties should be possible and possible if they can be found. Minister, you accept these proposals if you want the last, last minute at least to improve this piece of legislation that will tempt the borrowers. Let me close by making two very few references to Part B, Chapter A. You have, among other things, made changes to the Code of Lawyers, which the Plenary Assembly of Presidents has not requested. For Part C, the provisions of the consultation have wide differences in the draft law. Do not complain, therefore, that many provisions were not even in the consultation and others came to the vote completely differently. Thank you for the one minute you gave me, Mr President. I cannot conclude by not making a point about these key points raised in our country, because the feeling given to me by the relevant ministers before is that we are looking very closely for a board of salvation. I have to tell you that a board of salvation is for those who have already sanctified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA, B2 West Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, gentlemen of the government, you have really lost control of the pandemic. You failed. And today's move to declare a second lockdown by the Prime Minister clearly proves it. It turned out to be your inability to manage this serious health crisis, which is also global of course, and because it has to do with human lives, I believe that this inability is becoming yours, I would say, and dangerous. It took you seventeen months, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to understand and recognize the 37 billion left by the SYRIZA Government after its policy, with the delay and sacrifices of the Greek people. And today Mr Stakoras referred to this twice, and at first you said that there is no such reserve to support society. Of course, society will be backed up by the crisis at five, and this had to be done a long time ago. Members of the government, dealing with any crises, especially the health crisis that our country is facing now, need a good design, need specific prevention policies, concrete steps and not come today and take measures and announce them, which should have been taken at least eight months ago. I am referring to what the Minister said, Mr Kikilias. You work with the logic "seeing and doing". A long time ago, Mr. Petsas said: "If we were to do what SYRIZA said about the ITH, we would fly millions" and you would come today and say that the SYRIZA reaches a limit point. One understands the seriousness and curiosity of your policy at the same time. You had eight months. The money from the House was data with the donation made by the Parliament, all of us, for the "Save" for fifty beds of IF. You were inaugurated. You took pictures. They run 12 ICUs and the commitment is by the end of the year 50%. Strained by a mental hospitalisation, without recruitment. Well, let's just let communications and anyway handle even the serious health crisis that exists at the moment. Of course, clandestineness, as I said before and possibly incompetent, is seen by your policies and announcements. "No to take away," you said in Thessaloniki, which has been the lockdown for days. After the intervention of your friend regional, it became possible. "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Eventually, high school and high school close and stay open only in primary schools. In any case, please consult each other and do not function - I say it again - on the logic of'seeing and doing'. I would also say something about the Minister for Health, who is not here, unfortunately. It goes on and on and on, not only, but the government as a whole, what happens in other European countries. Clearly the situation is very difficult everywhere, but I must mention though I am not a doctor of four basic parameters. The four main parameters for where a country is located in the pandemic concern patients, the number of tests, the enclosed and the deaths. These four parameters and the population of the country - I have omitted that - define the position in which a country is located. I would say that the continuation of your policy, which now clearly seems to serve banks and major economic interests, is also the draft law, which we are discussing today, a continuation of the bankruptcy you voted on a week ago in a pandemic. The European countries - as you say the government in Europe - are suspending auctions, taking concrete measures, while you are progressing rapidly, creating questions why this haste eventually. And you come to the last sanctuary, justice. Those who are waiting to keep, save their home - just to say it - in fact in the procedures and ways of speeding up the trials and in the entire procedure for supporting documents, are led to lose it. But there is society and we must see society. We see it and we talk to society. We must also point out in the new measures, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you do not omit specific CARs and specific professional groups. For this reason, and we tabled an amendment, I am talking about Amendment 54439, which relates to the financial support of citizens of the countryside, landmark and travellers of SYRIZA and the inclusion of those people who have been actually not working for seven months. Support with concrete measures. I would say, therefore, that these people, as mentioned in the amendment, have suffered great losses, are the travellers, those who work in fairs throughout the country, have not received the compensation of EUR 534 for May and now this institutional gap has to be covered. They are on an indefinite suspension essentially because this summer for health reasons many municipalities did not celebrate, and on the other hand these people must actually be supported because the needs are too great. With the amendment, what do we want? We want these SMRs to be integrated, to enter the compensation measures, to fill the gap between these six, seven months and, of course, an insurance exemption as long as their profession is suspended. You must bend to the problems of the world. This sector, Minister and gentlemen of the Government, concerns human workers, too many excellent, in the essential sense of the word. That is why I would say that, because they have also addressed other opposition parties, they have made commitments from most opposition parties and even from the government by meeting Ministers, by voting today, every political force here must be placed, accepted. I would also ask you, Minister, to accept this amendment from the SYRIZA because it concerns an important social group, which has so far been an invisible social group. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u353	You're welcome, Mrs. Kafantari. I would like to clarify, because I was present - and at the request of Mrs Sakorafa - that the President of Parliament, Mr Tasulas, informed us at the Conference of Presidents that twenty-four beds, two wings, will be fully in operation by mid-December and all the beds will be available before 15 December and the fifty for the Salvation, which you referred to. I have to say this since the President of the House has made it clear to the Conference of Presidents. We continue with Mr. Ioannis Giolas from Argolida.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read two titles from today's newspaper: "The choice of patients for the ICU is frightening", "the assessment of 150,000 active cases is shocking". It is not a publication of the ‘SGEI’ or of the ‘SECURITISATION OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS’. It is the publication of the newspaper “PROTO THEM”. You can understand that we have reached this point, that we have the spectrum in front of us - and I do not want to make any effort - of choosing patients if he is ninety and we must leave him in the ranch and in the corridors or if he is seventy-five and he must be hospitalized in the intensive care unit. These are the abrupts of your choices or rather of your eight-month inactivity to secure the necessary number of ICUs. Indeed, when we read that the ICUs are currently in Athens hosting hundreds of forty people and there is only 25% available, another thirty-five, and in the provincial towns, as we know, the Deputy Minister of the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs is referring the patients to Messolong and Agrinio, we understand that from now on we have to deal with a situation that is not easy. I can't understand for so many months why you've been talking about a thousand two hundred ICUs? Where are these ITHs anyway? Is it on the paper? Is he the guy? Have they been staffed? And keep in mind that there is one 80% of people with emergency needs and circumstances who have cancers and must operate, who have heart disease, who will suffer a disease that cannot wait. So these people, in 80%, have to stay out. Here science raises its hands high. Beyond these uncertainties you had with regard to the ICUs on which you celebrated and the world of course comforted the reason that no matter what happens to us, we have the last refuge, what else to start? My colleagues have said so. How will we avoid crowding into public transport in Athens? Mr. Pappas told you a moment ago. The competition for seven hundred and fifty new buses was suspended. The ESDP programme of the Attica Region on Ms. Dourou for ninety-two buses and electric cars was cut down. For the hundred and seventy blocked, which is to be repaired in the trains, didn't you put a hand in and pay 5-10 million - how much could that be? - to ensure that people who, at the mornings, the afternoons and the hours of their departure from work agree and are assimilated as sardines. What else can we say? For the health recruitments that Mr. Kikilis tells us we have three hundred recruits? Of course, the two hundred are the ones who have been proclaimed, and the competition runs. Don't make politics about people's eyes. I don't plunder, I don't want to intimidate anyone. Take care even now, before it's too late. I don't want to blame this bill. I would like, Minister, unfortunately, to highlight an acrobatic, quite a bit has been said, and a contradiction from the New Democracy. Unfortunately, I am going to refer to Article 65 which has been heard a lot. I mean the following. You were the government of the New Democracy, which in 2013 you effectively removed two financial prosecutors, Mr. Peponnes and Mr. Mousakitis, who investigated the case of "SIEMENS" by creating the prosecutor's office of corruption and by taking the documents out of their hands to them. Now you're re-creating an economic prosecutor. We're on our way to the Corruption Prosecution. How can anyone not suspect and conceive and make no mistake that this is being done in order to remove the case-file from Mrs Toulupakis's hands and the prosecutors' assistants? Allow me to accept your claim that you are making a consolidation arrangement for the two prosecutors in a single streamlined, to recruit new scientific associates, etc. Should it not be in view of the volume and complexity which existed in the existing dossier to set a transitional stage to complete the process? Order Mrs. Tulupakis and the Deputy Deputy Prosecutors: Complete your finding, your control within sixty days, otherwise you will be removed. Where are these things? On the contrary, I too can no longer believe it, here we are entering the boundaries of unconstitutionalism, because you are actually being removed from the responsible judiciary, work by intervening as legislative power as unseen. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, just one more minute. And I'm explaining. The Supreme Judicial Council has twice chosen Ms Toulupakis with overwhelming majorities and has rewarded her. It was also rejected by a decision of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, when you welcomed it, ladies and gentlemen, that it would now leave Mrs Toulupaki's hands and take it - yet the whole of the seven-year-olds with an overwhelming majority, with confidence in the adequacy of Mrs Toulupakis and her group, left it in her hands. Incidentally, but clearly, once again, the plenary session of the Members of the European Parliament also, by a large majority, had again ruled out the objection to its dismissal from the examination of the case. I think the defendants who were alleged to be accused and controlled had again objected to this objection. And fourthly and lastly, listen - here in their lawyers, the hair rises - of the two prosecutors, Zecharis and Sofulaki, ladies and gentlemen, who were equal and who have drawn up two different findings. Oh, the miracle was the one that dealt with the committee, I mean the Judicial Council, and for the other his fate is ignored. How are these things? Two similar prosecutors come to do a particular job.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u355	The manoeuvring, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u356	What if it's a boom? To God, if that's not a boom, then what is it? This is a raw intervention to the independent judiciary, ladies and gentlemen. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u357	Ice Arrow Attorney? He gave orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u358	You accepted it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Buga, please don't interrupt him. Mr. Gillola, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u360	Please finish with two words. Mr President, you are interrupting me and I cannot complete my amendment. We have all heard the proposals made by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, for 3.3 billion with which various sectors of professional and other bodies will be supported. I have not heard anything about the farmers. They are twelve categories of farmers. They are also the producers of agricultural markets, those who go to the people's markets. Nothing's heard. On the contrary, it was announced that they would get some money from March and April, and yet we have reached September and then the gate to submit their request was completed. Finally, I should like to mention an amendment which, unfortunately, I have signed on my own. Mr President, if you are kind, I will just say a few words. We are talking about free and non-built land sites of the FIFG, i.e. the Court of Justice Fund. There, therefore, because, for various reasons, the FIFG - either because it has no money, or because it has not shown the necessary diligence - has not intervened on these sites, which may be squares, blooms, parks in front of the premises, but not structured, so as to devour them, reform them, improve them. So I think that with a concession of use it will be able to reach the relevant LAGs in their region so that they can vomit it. I think that should be taken seriously, Minister, and we should find a way to cure this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you know, the political choices and the legislation that follow these choices are no substance unless they are combined with the reality that is formed in the social field, but also if they do not serve the needs of the citizens as they show today's extraordinary treaty. When, in particular, the legislative work which serves a political strategy conflicts with reality and needs, then the choices of the government or of each government, I will say, are not simply devoid of substance, but are also made dangerous to the social interest. In my opinion, Mr Minister, it is politically essential to examine the current legislation in relation to storming developments in the health of the pandemic, but also in relation to the economic footprint created by this health crisis. I will bring you a simple example, 30 June, one month after the first lockdown, the cases were twenty the number, two in Attica, zero in Thessaloniki. What happened? The citizens have simply given you the discipline, with the sacrifices that have made the necessary time to do two simple things, the first to prepare the National Health System for the second potential wave and thus to shield this country. So, what did you do in those months when they went through? Thousands of pounds and millions on the channels. Legalisation of unpaid overtime, no substantial help in the world of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, no subsidisation of work, but the suspension of labour and, ultimately, the liquidation of the property and the loss of the first residence for all natural persons, who do not have a commercial status and all this in the midst of the second wave of the coronary. So, Minister, the second lockdown is your exclusive excellent creation. So, Minister, where are these new intakes by doctors in hospitals? We were told before by Mr Kikilis that it was supposedly the members of the national system that cheered the Minister of Health for the attitude he has taken over this entire period. Why don't you take a walk from "Achilopoulos" Hospital of Volos. What are you gonna see? Four pathologists, while they should be fourteen, run from morning to night to face dozens of incidents. Doctors are coming, Minister, to do on-calls when they don't get on-call. They're coming in to do shift shifts when they're not on their schedule to do shifts. Where are these hundreds of new ICUs? If they were as many as you say, why have you frightened with a hundred and eighty tubes and said that the strengths of the national system are being hardened? Why are you inhibiting the tactical function then? Where are the young school teachers, the few sections, when you see them close one after another and schools all over the country because of the outbreak? Where is the increase in public transport routes, which you know are being transformed into super-transmissions due to crowding? Where are these essential measures to support labour and small and medium-sized enterprises now when there are pools of labour and market players telling you is one, these measures that are now being taken are even lower than in March and April? When you refuse, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the House, to take effective measures imposed by extraordinary health conditions are as if you deny the very reality of the pandemic. And then for tomorrow, I understand, you refuse to come to the House, because you're afraid to raise the political cost of eight months of committing. Why do you refuse to do so in the management and recovery of the pandemic? Why do you deny the recruitment of doctors, nurses? Why do you refuse to increase the MS? Why do you deny the recruitment of teachers? What are you hiding from us? Aren't you any buggers and you're not telling us? Because if that is the case, it is something very serious and something very dangerous. As far as the articles and provisions of today's draft law are concerned, I think that Mr Kalamatiano, our rapporteur, has very clearly covered all the articles and provisions. I want to say a word. I think it works as the necessary complement to the new bankruptcy code, which you voted on a few days ago. With this pompous but at the same time cunning title: "Accelerating cases" you are actually sending a single category of cases to the short definition and the short decision of the indebted households, thus completing the confiscation of the homes of the weak debtors by the banks. I want, Mr President, from the Step forward of the House to address to the world and the officials of the public health units of Magnesia, to the executives of the ‘Akolopoulos’ Hospital, and to the health centres of Magnesia, to Ilias Karametos, to the director of the emergency department, to the catastrophe from the 1st pathology, to Ms Charana from the nursing service, to Mandra from the second pathological, to my father, Michael Meikopoulou, director of I pathological and to tell them courage, to tell them how to congratulate them, and to congratulate them on this superhuman effort, which is finally available to them all this time and to commit from this step forward that the Government may have forgotten them, but the Response is here and we will have every parliamentary instrument available to wake up the Ministry of Health and help them up their daily health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr Meikopoulou, and respect for the time. You also referred to the timeliness and the bill, and you said it all in time. Mr Constantinidis Efstathos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the second cycle of pandemic has forced most states to take measures to protect citizens. We all understand the many problems and anguishs of every professional, who has to reduce even to suspend the operation of his work. But when the dilemma comes to public health, there is no hesitation. The first concern is the protection of the citizens, especially the most vulnerable. So let us trust the scientists and those responsible for responsibility. There is no doubt that many of our fellow citizens these hours need support. It is the state's obligation to provide all possible assistance. On the other hand, we must consistently follow the suggestions and close our ears to populism and conspiracy that have damaged the national effort. A few months ago we were an example to imitate all over the world. We can do it again. I wish good courage and strength to all the people who will give this fight from the front line, they have our gratitude and support. But it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to get out of the health crisis, we must get out more and more ready. As in the first phase, today government planning and legislative work must evolve at the same time, with determination and speed. As the obstacles grow the greater power we have to pay to overcome them, and this government has shown that it has it. We are therefore called upon to make important decisions and to bring in areas in the interest of society. The next day more resources will be required and they will only come through growth. We must be ready, we must have made the institutional changes that will give the economy oxygen. Such is the case with the intervention of the bill to be passed. One can criticise it, but one cannot blame the current government for disarmament, since it makes decisions and gives solutions. This is what it does with the bolted private debt that it did not face, but on the contrary SYRIZA increased. Did it solve the question of overdue households? On the contrary. SYRIZA voted against the Katseli law and defends the Stathakis law which has far narrower scope of application. Finally, he gave us a framework that did not recommend any protection for the first residence. Here's what the Consumers' Union said on March 2019. The government's amendment on the protection of the principal residence is not only below expectations, but is a challenge and a burden on borrowers. THE EDUCATION expresses its deep bitterness, disappointment and anger to abolish any essential protection of the first home. In fact, this government, SYRIZA, then, received the protection of the main residence as a permanent institution in the Katseli Act, made it temporary and with more stringent criteria in 2015 and abolished it now. But are today the overdue borrowers in a better condition? No, the SYRIZA rapporteur confessed to support the need for continued protection. Tens of thousands of pleadings have been filed in the courts and to think that it criticises us for the attempted acceleration by SYRIZA, who was committed to the institutions to clear up these cases by 2022. It also invokes us for the procedure when it is he, which introduced the trial of cases without witnessing at the audience in other cases even heavier in the ordinary procedure. If we want to be honest, for those who know this, practically in these cases is in the interest of the borrower, because what he wants to prove will bring it into the process with a sworn statement without any contradictions and compensation. It was also argued that interested parties would not be able to produce the necessary economic data. There is no doubt, however, that the actual beneficiary has sufficient time and every reason to do so. The one who started the process in logic 'do it and see' will probably abandon it. It is probably the 25% rate, if I am not mistaken - no wonder - which, when it comes to discussing his case, resigns or cancels, as the evidence says. However, in cases that have not yet been decided who are affected and who are favoured by the acceleration? The one who has the criteria for justice wants quick trial and liquidation. Do you know who doesn't want it? As a general rule, those who have been abusive, those who have achieved a temporary arrangement and are attuned to the delay. Did you close the eye to them? You're in danger of accusing yourself of squeezing the batters. You know that well, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that non-cleaning does not only harm justice and exposes the country for delay in its award, but all citizens, the economy as a whole. Let's not be fooled. As long as private debt and bank loans are not cleared, the economy will not be liquidated. But you deny the arrangement without suggesting any alternative. Tell them to redeem debts. Tell the taxpayers to charge them. Tell the banks to charge them. None of this stuff you say anymore. What you're doing is unbearable criticism. I note from the other important issues of the bill: the solution given to the issue that is a suggestion of the S.H.E. Not only is it not a suspect, but instead serves the interests of the state. The unification of the public prosecutors of economic crime and corruption. The concern caused by SYRIZA's lack of confidence in the independence of justice, as it seems to only trust certain persons and, obviously, not all officials and institutions as a whole. The arrangements for lawyers and judges, who have been warmly accepted. The recruitment of eight hundred doctors and a thousand nurses and the active criminal treatment of animal abuse. For all these reasons, I also warmly support this legislative initiative of the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, too. We proceed with Mr. Vassiliou - Petro Spanakis from the New Democracy of the B3' South Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u366	I also have an amendment, which is why I will need more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u367	You can tell them in less than six minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying: we have received 'came land'. I imagine everyone in this Chamber, but those who listen to us know what that expression means. It was every government's favorite expression from the time of postpopulation. I do not remember there being a government that has not invoked this phrase. It is the timeless alibi for the inadequacies of each government. The previous Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, also loved this phrase in particular. He even enriched it, saying in May 2015 that “we did not receive just burnt land, we go to drugged soil”. Mr. Tsipras said this as soon as the SYRIZA government took over the country's governance. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to act as if you hadn't ruled in this country for a moment. You cannot forget and the Greek people cannot forget the days of the rule of SYRIZA. We, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government received more than 100 thousands of outstanding cases in July 2019 before the country's peace tribunals, Katseli Law cases, which the SYRIZA Government had undertaken to end by December 2021. Do you know when many of these cases are scheduled to be discussed? After 2027, some arrive until 2032. Obviously, the government of SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras still didn't have time to finish. The Government of New Democracy is not hiding or using the mistakes of the former government to avoid doing any work. Oh, no! Our government corrects mistakes and omissions, which it has received and made progress. We are in time to complete our work. We can make progress every time. We will not hand over 'burned land'. We don't have that luxury. We don't have such a popular order. It's not in New Democracy's DNA. There is very easy and objective justification if we wanted to do nothing. When has the Greek government, after-war apparently been in a state of global health crisis, such as today, with a significant impact on the daily life of the citizen and on the Greek economy? You see, at the same time, a government, a staff, at all levels, ready to deal with arguments and with appropriate interventions. We have a programme and a coherent one, and we must also end with the cases of the Katseli Act - we must understand it - by the end of 2021. The main content of Law 3869/2010 does not change. There will be no right to borrowers. Let us make it clear that the Greek people will listen to us. Instead, the strategic poor payers were those who favoured and sought deferrals and as far away as possible, which might never have been enough, or until then, if we lived, we would have entered a new arrangement. "You're not bored," they said. But our country - beware - is constantly condemned by the European Court of Justice for delays in the administration of justice. In 2019, we were in the third between forty-eight countries of the Council of Europe in violations of justice delays, according to the annual figures published by the European Court of Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, should this negative first not be over at some point? Is there someone in this Chamber who disagrees with this policy, which we are enthusiastic about with our legislative work? I shall refer to just a few of the provisions of this bill. It was a difficult day today. After all, a constructive dialogue had taken place in consultation, but also at committee meetings, with bodies involved, with statements of opinions and proposals, which many of them incorporated into this draft law. The legal Members in this Chamber have also been given a detailed account. We have the digital platform through which we will facilitate the lives of lawyers and borrowers. In particular, borrowers will be able to recover all necessary information immediately for their case. There's an end here, too, to the suffering of thousands of citizens and lawyers, who had to run from service to service, from tail to tail, to collect supporting documents and seals. The increase in the exercise of lawyers from six months to one year is very substantial, because it gives lawyers sufficient time to get acquainted with them in practice and to be ready for the exercise of their duties professionally and, at the same time, paid for by European funds. The procedure for the authentic signature of the lawyer presenting the case shall be abolished. You see we are taking small steps, but important. We are improving our position in the World Bank Doing Business Index. As I speak of improvements, of reducing bureaucracy, of rationalising the provisions, Mr Minister, let me refer to an amendment I tabled, where the proposed provisions adapt the legal function to the modern social and economic conditions. Most importantly, however, the disciplinary law of lawyers is streamlined, with the aim of speedy and effective disciplinary procedure, respect for the principle of proportionality and full reasoned disciplinary decision, ensuring all rights and guarantees in favour of the disciplinary lawyer, in accordance with the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and the case-law of the Supreme Courts. In particular, this amendment which I am tabling today strengthens the possibility for lawyers to contribute to resolving the disputes of their order by way of an extrajudicial procedure. Yeah, we need to settle disputes. That's our strategy! An established case-law of the courts, according to which disciplinary responsibility is self-evident and is not permitted to be taken up by another person, except for the person who commits the disciplinary offence. This amendment rationalises the disciplinary penalties in order to be consistent with the infringements on which they are imposed. Disinflation of disciplinary boards is achieved by the retrieving of slight disciplinary misconduct. The disciplinary procedure is defined and clarified at last. Confidentiality of the disciplinary investigation shall be ensured and the personal data of the disciplinary officers shall be protected. Finally, selfish, sometimes deliberate and unfounded reports against lawyers are prevented. Mr Minister, above all for these reasons, I would like you to accept the amendment under a general number of 550 and a special 45 tabled today. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, our government is constantly reducing bureaucracy. With transparent but rapid pace, each of our legislation is a step towards modernization, towards the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. Mr Panagis Capatos has the floor from the New Democracy. We have Mr. Booba of the Greek solution, and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, I would like the floor later to say what amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u371	Yes, Minister. Your speech is with the rapporteur. Mr. Cappato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wished before entering today's bill to make a comment on Lockdown. I remember the opposition policy of all parties, and in particular of SYRIZA, when the first lockdown was declared, it was that our government closed down unnecessarily and very quickly. Today, opposition policy is the very opposite, that the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis were delayed to declare the country in lockdown. I want to get you an example. When I first went to America in 1983, I had the impression that many Americans considered the end of the earth to be where the American border ends. Today, you are giving me this picture that you think the land is the end of Greece's borders. It's like there's no other world outside Greece. As if you don't see, you don't open the TV to see what's going on in the rest of the world. And let us get closer to the European countries. All European countries made lockdowns when they had thirty thousand cases a day. And the Greek Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, comes and declares lockdown when we have two and a half thousand cases. Doesn't that indicate that he's running and that he's in front of the developments? Can't you see what's going on in the other world? That is what I consider to be a popular policy, if I may say so. Since Saturday, then, the country has entered a new lockdown, a negative and unpleasant development for all of us, but necessary to control the pandemic. It is a restriction that is being attempted not only in our country but throughout Europe. A series of states are moving towards relevant decisions on citizens' movement and commercial activity in order to be able to respond to the pressure that the COVID crisis has caused. In the context of an informal health war, which we have necessarily been involved, let me remind you of Mr. Nikos Hardalias' words during the period of the gradual lifting of lockdown in mid-May. "Every move of ours will be evaluated. Any measure which is withdrawn may be reintroduced when the data fails to satisfy our purpose.’ We are therefore at the point where the new wave of pandemic must find the citizens and the health system shielded. This is also the fundamental task of a credible government, to ensure the protection, security and the rights of all its citizens. One more thing. Ensure that the freedom of the individual and the well-being of the society as a whole remain unmistakable in the passage of a strong vibration such as that of the crisis we are experiencing. I now come to this bill, which is the result of a systematic dialogue that began in November 2019. The plenary session of the lawyers, the association of judges and prosecutors, as well as the borrowers' associations, are some of the bodies involved in a comprehensive public consultation. Many of the operators' proposals were included in the bill by the Minister of State, so that today we are talking about an improved and complete text. What does the bill involve, however, and where exactly does the package of regulations for which we are voting today contribute? The first and main regulation concerns the cases of the so-called Katseli Act and the commitment to have completed the relevant cases by 31 December 2021, a commitment that we, as a country, have already undertaken by the previous SYRIZA government and are now being called upon to respect. At the same time, we confirm our unnegotiable choice to protect weak borrowers. At the same time, we are called upon to discover those who are able to meet their obligations and who, however, choose to hide. We put an end to this unpleasant picture and we ensure the necessary and permanent protection net for the weak. To understand the size of the problem, more than 100 thousand households are currently in a permanent and permanent insecurity and SYRIZA wants these cases to be judged after seven or eight or nine or ten years. Let us now see a second intervention that the bill includes and relates to a series of procedural law arrangements. We amend and reform the Code of Lawyers according to the needs of the law enforcement body. We clear the signs by creating a rapid process of redefining the cases, through the online platform designed under the responsibility of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. Loaners will automatically have direct access to all the necessary tax and bank documents without being conspired into bank or public services lines. However, at the beginning of the oral procedure, we are intervening not by rejecting it, but by introducing the logic of the written procedure. So we give the peacekeeper the opportunity to order it and to seek the truth of the claims in the data, data and documents, as is the case in the ordinary procedure before the political courts. At the same time, we are adapting to the new conditions that the health crisis has brought about, enabling lawyers to meet at a distance. In addition to that, we are adopting procedures that facilitate citizens and the more effective functioning of justice in the draft law. We are changing the way in which it is enforced through compulsory execution, for the performance in the notary of the report by the accredited valuer of the properties, a regulation in the interest of weak borrowers. And finally, we consecrate with the two prosecutors of special duties. In a state of modern times there are no two prosecutors of the same object, of economic crime, and of corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude with a brief reference to what we are not doing with this draft law. We are not punishing the citizens and especially the weak borrowers, as the opposition insists on charging us. We are not abolishing the protection of the first residence for which we have legislated for the benefit of the citizens just a few days earlier. We do not hamper the relationship between our fellow citizens and Greek justice, but precisely the opposite. We are not introducing a legislative philosophy of our own inspiration, but we are implementing a commitment from the SYRIZA government. We remain faithful to the doctrine that the state has continually and we are not the ones who will blow everything up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. I will give the floor to the Minister for Justice to tell what amendments he is proposing, so that the rapporteurs will know, and we will close with Mr Bubas from the Greek Solution. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, precisely for the time economy, I should like to tell you which of the amendments are accepted and, of course, I will then, at the end of the procedure, be placed, both in the bill and in the case of what has been said earlier than the ladies and gentlemen. Ministerial amendments Nos 542/37, 545/40, 546/41, 548/43 and 552/47 are accepted. And if I have to place myself on the amendment, which concerns the Ministry of Justice, on one hand Mr Vorides has been placed on the tightening up of penalties for animal torturers, on the other hand, I would like to say that the age limit for candidates in the competition has been increased in order to strengthen the protection of professional freedom and, of course, to harmonise with the age limit laid down for admission to the National School of Judges. This harmonisation essentially concerns the case law of the Council of State and Directive 2000/78 of the European Union of the Council of 27 November 2000 laying down the general framework for equal treatment in employment and work. So the limit is increased for those who can enter the contests of notaries for forty-five years. And that, as you know, is introduced precisely because it is a request from the notaries' club. As far as the legislative amendments are concerned, the parliamentary amendment No 551/46 by Mr Katrin from the Change Movement and Amendment No 550/45 by Mr Spanakis is concerned. In fact, I should like to tell you that Mr Spanaki's amendment, at least to the Ministry of Justice, is the first amendment tabled by analyzing the consequences of the regulation which good legislation provides for. I do not know whether any other amendments have been tabled to previous bills, but this is the first time. But I shall reply very briefly to all the other amendments tabled. For Amendment No 539/34 concerning the FIFG, it was Mr Giolias who supported it, and I will tell you that Article 2(3) of Law No 1017/71 on FIFG legislation already provides for the granting of use in a general and specific manner. Therefore, the regulatory framework of the proposed amendment is specifically covered by a more general legislation that already exists. In addition, I would like to inform the House that there is a change in the FIFG organisation. As you know, there are issues that we are trying to deal with. We need to make the FLAG more flexible. We must address all these issues that are chronic pathogens, speeding up payments of legal protection. These are issues and issues which, I think, all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Amendment No 544/39, which relates to the financial support of the world trade, etc., cannot be accepted, ladies and gentlemen, because it has absolutely nothing to do with the bill. It is an amendment which must obviously be tabled in the debate on the draft law of another ministry. I come for the two amendments to the Change Movement. 547/42 is concerned with adapting the special disciplinary provision for customs officials, and this cannot be accepted because it obviously needs consultation even with the competent customs authorities. Amendment No 543/38, concerning the exception to the obligation to pay a judicial record in the actions for the jurisdiction of a multi-legislative court relating to compensation for victims and burnt-outs of the Occupation, is an issue that we have discussed several times and I have even answered a timely question, if I remember correctly, by Mrs Liikanou. It is a matter that at the same time concerns a particular village of Larissa and has put it all the Members of the Larisa, Mr Charakopoulos, Mr Kelles, Mrs Biziou. We have said from the outset that we are making an attempt to find a solution. But the question has been raised in mind in the committee on the change of the Code of Civil Procedure, and I think that soon after the work has been completed, it will be the way to deal with this matter. For the other proposed amendment to the Change Movement, which has a general number of 549 and a special 44, concerning the implementation of a Decision 317/20 of the Court of Auditors and the equalisation of conditions for the retirement of women in the public sector for the period up to 31/12/2010, I will tell you that this amendment has nothing to do with the bill and obviously needs to be consulted with the relevant Ministry of Employment, because that is where it has to start and not by the Ministry of Justice. I think I have answered all the amendments. As I said earlier, I will be present at the end of the procedure. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u375	We shall now proceed with the last speaker. We'll close with Mr. Booba from the Greek solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u376	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although I would have very much to say why there are stimuli I will try to be brief and reasoned in managing the time so that I do not tire you. First of all, since the days are like this and because of the virus, the government's motto could be: "We stay at home until the bank gets us". It's a very nice slogan that reflects what we call social justice and because the bill is two-story, so I see it. The one nature is to record the real estate of the Greeks, to enter a register, and from there on it will, unfortunately, be a shell in the funds and to stop this about private property in Greece. It is a philosophy against some of the New Democracy that I hear should be abolished, not all of them. The second nature of the bill is to transfer the court to the internet, and that's the worst thing, because the court is a living cell mechanism. Objections and arguments must be heard, dialogue must take place, action and reaction. That's why we say justice is something alive, human, social. You can't transfer the subject of a trial online. He's now becoming a person. She loses her essence, her vitality and, of course, what we call human substance. You know, the worst virus is when it's mutated. If the virus of politics is changed toward ideological manoeuvre, which must be representatives of the people, we are losing our role as MPs. And now we're going a little to another issue, because the news is protecting it, Mr. Minister. You have a double role now. I'll try to make it a little difficult as a journalist myself as a microbiologist - a biopathologist you, and your wife is a doctor. Didn't the doctors know there was a second pandemic wave coming? Listen to me, I'm not a phosphite, I'm not a vomit. I've been working on this for ten years very well. You know that this virus also has a lubrication capsule. The eltra in the summer, this fertilizer, which has inside the elements of nucleic acid, does not have the power, nests like H1N1, which has done too many mutations. So you didn't know to be a mentor, and you and your fellow doctors, like the scientific community, since Mr. Kikilis is missing, tell him that this elmeter against this coronary with its reverse transcription into his mechanism will go to host cells as soon as the temperature and humidity are down. So you knew the second wave, because if we go to the history of medicine, I historically see it, in no pandemic, could change the virus and no pandemic could be found eighteen months ago. The antigens to become antibodies so much it takes. In 1918 we had H1N1, in 1957 Asian influenza H2N2, Hong Kong influenza H2N3 with three million victims in Asian and one million victims in Hong Kong. Now it's been done, they don't have many years. In 1977 we had the Russian flu with eight hundred thousand. The virus has changed again. Taiwan took measures because it had a history in 2003 by MERS, and that is why it was able to do so, as our President Kyriakos Velopoulos said. That's why Taiwan knew from the very beginning how it would work. And I say to you: there is an example of the Greek Parliament which has managed pandemic in the best way and must be an example to be imitated. What do historians do? Why don't they go back to the past that they can face the future? It's not the Spanish flu of 1918, it's 1928 with the bite fever. What is Eleftherios Venizelos, who was hospitalized at the “Evangelism” Hospital with the then Minister of Zavitsianos and the late Doxiadis? They establish the health school that then became a national public health school and today is not working - listen to the laughter - while doing research on many viruses, on HPV, on AIDS, on retrovirals, carcinogenics. He's on parole. If you hear what George Donias says, the professor will understand. Why did Eleftherios Venizelos establish this school then? Because he was hospitalized with 40 fevers. And he ordered no taxes, not even parole, seismicism in the time. And it gives 200,000 drachmas for travel expenses to nurses, 10 million drachmas, very large sums for the time, for the needy, so that we don't have a social explosion. And 15 million drachmas then the Minister of Doxiadis gives the municipalities to arm themselves with sanitary material. In 1928 the MPs had cases of an epidemic of an epidemic. Only seven hundred thirty - one people died in Athens, forty - one people a day, a thousand five hundred eighty dead. But Venizelos had the perceptiveness of even the middle of the time - which we did not have ITH at the time - to give taxes, to give money and to get rid of and to do the national public health school, which, today, since 2019, has been suspended, unfortunately, which does important research on the tests as well. You're a doctor, a scientist. I, in reading the history of medicine, see this very logical step which has been strengthened and the virus is now mutating. It's easy to make a mutation to hit again. Luckily, he's not a retrovirus. The question is what will happen next day when we get really difficult viruses. If you see the flu virus up to eight and nine mutations in the Netherlands. Now let's go a little bit on the judiciary, because I'll be sorry for you. The opposition is burying it. He's doing it a little bit politically arrogant. You answered. You had the courage - I admit - to answer. It's a familiar matter. On 22 July we tabled a topical and urgent question on the subject at the school of judges. You want, Minister, to make a breakthrough for the law 3869, the Katselis law. And I say to you: is it possible - and you have said so - that you cannot, he says, intervene in the judiciary - in the schools of judges to give the young judges a training document to the new judges? I have said so many things - regardless of whether Mr Paulakis knows about it too - and not to talk, why cannot we intervene? What was the line given by the judges to the new judges as a training document in February? Support the credit card system and take potential delusion to the borrowers. That, when official justice says so and the legal world does not react, is the right thing or interest of the critic. The people won't lose their trust? How are we going for 3869? The channels don't say it. Only the 'NA' of Kavala, the 'KANDRA', the 'STAR' of Northern Greece, the 'KONTRA' and the 'ESPRESSO' newspapers - not to blame - have done so. Where's the PSE? At the nea.gr - if I entered a site - Mr. Heta, my dear colleague, and the others had no positions of the Hellenic Solution for the Banking Code at all. All the other parties were there. So that's a good thing, because the opposition didn't bring it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u377	And finish, Mr. Booba, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u378	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Tsipras, when I told him, tells me: 'Is it true?' Mrs Gennimata said: 'We are not in the right place.' People don't lose their trust? Mr. Chiaras admitted it on 22 July. He had the courage to admit it. Of course, for what you said there are many wicked borrowers, clearly personalized, Themish will judge it. He can't say that. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. The pandemic thing isn't over. Now it's getting hard. I think it's going to be handled, because you know it as a doctor, it's a top of medicine. But you must tell the world that medicine only began in 1950 and for the first time saw the viruses in the smoke mosaic in 1935 at the microscope. Well, medical doesn't know much about it. Are they filthy creatures? Is that an intracellular parasites? Get into the history of medicine. You don't have to be qualified to be part of a team of praisers. You can see them. It was expected and very normal. But in the summer we relaxed enough, and now we're paying her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr. Booba. And take a walk from the rapporteurs. I think it's a couple of minutes. Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much, Mr President. My second word will be to do with some amendments only. I therefore begin with Amendment No 545/40, which regulates the extension of the OAED's allowance for seasonal workers and workers in enterprises which have been closed down because of 'Janue', the compensation subsidy for workers, specific financial aid for the pay of workers of large hotel enterprises and the restrictive subsidy for businesses in the cultural sector. We are therefore voting in favour of this amendment, as we do in all measures, which are based on the logic of support for both the companies and the workers affected by the pandemic. No 546/41 contains two issues. One is to increase the age limit of the nominated notary from forty-two to forty-five years and the other to protect animals. I have, of course, been placed on the protection of animals. However, none of the two issues justified a late amendment. We realise that news is pressing. However, I repeat that the provisions on the protection of animals are in the right direction, they also respect the principle of proportionality. It is a matter of topicality which should finally be seen as a phenomenon, as a pathetic social ending. Of course, the issue of animals is a long way from being aware of and the phenomenon of animal trafficking and other issues, such as the abuse of the hides of the stray animals, which the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy said in this regard. So we believe that this is a question that requires a comprehensive plan, but then a wide-ranging consultation, because emblem interventions under the pressure of time do not constitute proper legislation. Amendment No 542/37 concerns the extension of a deadline for drawing up a list of heavy and unhealthy professions up to 30-04-2021 by the committee responsible. I would remind you that the deadline has already expired on 31 October. The committee has been set up for over two and a half years. It is therefore a long time for such a basic technical work. And it is unacceptable to date that the list has not yet been delivered and that is why the beneficiaries, the amount, the conditions and the conditions for payment of the allowance cannot be correctly identified. For the costs of hospitals you extend the provision of L.4332/2015 to cover what was done for health purposes by public hospitals without contracts and without registration in the price observatory. And now you come with an amendment to put the knife in our throats, and you have not built an effective system of emergency assignments with more transparency. So we shall vote 'the present'. We are voting against the amendment regulating matters of responsibility of many Ministries, Interior, Tourism, Rural Environment Development. You can once again give the municipalities and regions the opportunity to award public contracts without negotiation, without prior publication for supplies of material and services to avoid proliferation of the coronary. The principles governing public procurement are thus violated, such as the principle of transparency, the principle of protection of the public interest and good administration. And I conclude with the amendment from the Ministry of Health. We consider this to be a clear mockery. The only amendment that does is to restore what is already known and to make it clear that the national health system is supposedly strengthened and that intensive care units are operated while doing absolutely nothing. Article 2 of the amendment, entitled to IMP staff, says that a thousand eight hundred staff will be recruited, is a repetition of what was said in Article 54(1) of Law No4690/2020, i.e. the first wave of the pandemic last spring. We therefore believe that the government is dealing solely with pandemic in terms of communication, mocking society, it is a conscious choice not to arm itself, not to strengthen the public health system and in good time. Once again, private units are placed on payment, doctors' pensions extensions, retraining the same failed semimeters. We have not been informed so far of the total number of health personnel hired. We note that there are still no specialists who operate these intensive treatment units. Recruitment is minimal and relates to fixed-term contracts and not to permanent organic positions covering fixed-term needs. You have, therefore, left the National Health System exposed and weakened for the benefit of the private initiative. You are making a lockdown, a citizens' lockdown, because you know that ICMs are minimal and below the European average. So you are playing with the agony of the people and confusing them with half-measures that move into the logic of two stations, because you are quite simply aware that people when they are in prison in quarantine are more vulnerable to manipulation and that the defenses are weakened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much. Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the time that I am given, I will not say what we shall vote on the amendments. This is going to be captured on the board. I will take advantage of the few minutes I have to put an epilogue in a nice political battle that we had at four meetings of the relevant Committee on Public Administration and Justice and in plenary today. In life, Minister, you know it very well because you are more experienced than I am, it plays a major role Timing - so they say it in my village. Not that if you brought it in at another time we would vote for it because it really is a bill for us unacceptable. But the time you chose to piss off the more than 40 thousand Greek cases, which are in danger of losing their homes, is really unspeakable. I wonder why you didn't train it for the impressions at least, not anything else. I will use your own expression in the morning - we are here twelve hours - the bills are actually judged in practice, they are judged in life, in everyday life. And I think this bill will be a "Vaterlo" for you and your Government because the consequences on the daily life of Greeks and Greeks will be terrifying. Whatever we say here, no matter what the lawyers say, no matter what your staff say, the Greek Solution, the rest of the parties will all be judged in everyday life, in day and night that will dawn tomorrow, it will be dark tomorrow and the daily lives of the Greeks. And that's where the black print of this bill will appear. Also, Minister, in life you must at some point make serious decisions. A serious decision is to choose, and I said it in the morning, on which side of the story you'll be. The Government of New Democracy, namely you today, your staff and the Ministry of Justice, chooses to be with the wrong side of history, in our view. You are on the side of the commission, you are on the side of the troika, you are on the side of those who impose in our home country what they want. It's easy to do that. Do what SYRIZA did. You are now doing so too, New Democracy, this government. You have not found the courage to stand up and say no to the day when the second lockdown is announced in our country, but you prefer to restore your credibility to Europeans and not to ensure your credibility towards Greek citizens. Unfortunately you're on the wrong side of history. Guard, Minister. The government also releases you with the bills you bring to the vote in the Greek Parliament, and the way you manage the case called the CIVID, which is called the virus, flu, pandemic, say it as you wish. You guard, and that's your problem. Unfortunately, the wrong decisions, the wrong manipulations, the wrong bills you bring here and the wrong amendments have an impact on Greek society. Your mistakes are paid by Greek women and Greeks, and you should take this very seriously. In conclusion, because the moments are really critical, Mr President, I would like, as a Greek Solution, to say: wish the Greeks and Greeks, the Greeks and the Greeks truly good courage and strength because the moments that come are very difficult. And I don't just mean incarceration, Mr. President. I also mean the huge Armageddon the economics that Greeks and Greeks are preparing to welcome to their homes. We close them in their homes, we take their homes, we close their stores, we isolate them from society, we pooren them, but we prefer to see the reality of saying nice words between us here and say how good bills are. Well, it's not. And unfortunately for society, but thankfully for you, you will see it in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mrs Maria Konnaka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, please close the procedures manually. It's the second time this has happened. We fear that you will also be used to a tragic irony of fate is the previous Member, who has in the same way played the role of rabbit to pass on an amendment that, rather than its type, brings more to ministerial amendment. We think he's in touch with the Ministry. We want you to tell us who you have consulted, who you have consulted, why you mentioned before that you want to consult with the operators in order to accept other amendments. Who have you consulted to spend the night at only five, after a week when we are in the process of discussing a draft law of the Ministry of Justice, serious aspects of the disciplinary procedures of legal associations. So the lawyers who wake up tomorrow morning will see these changes in the papers? We want you to tell us if it's your own initiative or if there's an update of the legal clubs. It's really unacceptable. To say that this is an affront to the parliamentary procedure, I think it is at least epic, in this way trying to go through such provisions. Then, if you want, today's bill you come to make it easier and oil the lawyers of the tax collector companies, giving them the opportunity and you have the duty of lawyers to get the lawyers themselves to speak with the debtors of their orders, with the bank debtors, to put the knife in their throat to pay off an hour ahead of their obligations. In other words, you are actually trying to help implement these terrible choices you make in justice. You also essentially legislate on the disciplinary immunity of these legal companies because, in the name of the personal character of disciplinary responsibility, you take out the miserable practices, which follow collector companies, effectively transfer responsibility to their lawyers, whom you consider to be responsible for what the employer requires them to do. You are still seriously degrading the disciplinary procedure to the lawyers by giving overpower to the respective president of the club to judge personally the gravity of a disciplinary offence while modifying a number of other provisions in order to fall into soft lawyers. We also want Mr Spanakis to answer who is in the Chamber who intends to cover it. Why do you choose to reduce temporary cessation as a penalty from two to one year? Why is it abolishing the aggravating case of relapse? Why does it abolish the obligation to make the final withdrawal of a lawyer public? So a lawyer may, as a disciplinary sentence, be stopped from office, but this may not be made public in the world, so that he may exercise illegally. We invite you, even now, not to take the weight of such choices twice, to legislate on the mosquitoes and in ignorance of the law-makers such provisions as concern them. In relation to the amendment by the Ministry of Health, I will say a word. It is not the problem that it comes to five of today's process, but, above all, that it comes to both ten and ten of the pandemic, when you are already legislating for the second lockdown and basically admitting the criminal responsibilities and oligopoly of the government. Even the steps that he has to take today are inadequate. We called on you at the first moment to recruit a sufficient number of doctors, nurses, and now, while taking some steps that we could see as positive, it is a series of other measures that we consider to be unacceptable, such as, in the name of the system's failure to compel doctors to any part of the country from three to nine days and with the threat of disciplinary control if he refuses to move it throughout the country for any reason. I mean, you don't hire doctors and nurses, but you put the knife in their throats to accept such movements. Even the measure of the order, which we invited you to take from the beginning of the pandemic, does not implement, but implement the order on payment, i.e. compensation once again for private clinics. You've turned pandemic into a first-class opportunity to break down labour rights. Such is the misery of the Ministry of Shipping's amendment to the detriment of seafarers who, in the first time, abolished the collective agreements on seafarers, the sectoral collective agreements, now come for a second time to give shipowners a gift, withdrew their obligation on the necessary organic compositions to Greek seafarers, and, of course, also the penalties imposed on Greek seafarers if they do not comply with these organic compositions. In this same amendment, there is also the unacceptable introduction of the electronic vote to the elected representatives of the public service councils according to the standards of Mrs Kerameos, who is organizing elections on Saturday alone. You should also put your ministers candidates in the electronic election to be completely covered for the intactness of the process. In relation to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour: once again, behind the big words of the government, it comes to be a galantine in the large business groups, but particularly abundant in the support measures of the workers. We say this because of the measures you are announcing even now, since they have lifted all this weight and the insecurity of the workers in the previous period, you are exempted from the extension of the only one month that you are giving as aid to the seasonal workers, the thousands of food workers, tour guides, tour operators and tour operators, which you also exclude from any other aid. Furthermore, the introduction of a self-justified solution to seasonal workers' contracts is the question of whether these workers will have the right to re-entry. And a number of other measures that we consider to be incomplete in this direction, and on the contrary, you are excluding small tourist enterprises from under fifty employees and giving simple aid to large hotel businesses only. In relation to the support measures for artists. We believe that the step taken is incomplete, because in fact the portion of the lion's aid is given to the large rooms when the number of seats available to the rooms comes into play. For us, the criterion must be tolerant costs. The proposal for a law, submitted by the JRC as of May 2020, proposed measures in favour of both employees, employees and self-employed artists, as well as for small enterprises in the area with aid measures, such as financial aid, relief and suspension of their debts, cancellation of interest and fines and others. We believe that the minimum need to be increased. The compensation must be increased to 30% of the places you say 20% so that small rented artistic rooms can also be strengthened. Also, in relation to the employers who rely on them, it is possible to amend the provision that they can be covered even if they dismiss part or all of their staff, at least for those who do so in the period from the introduction to the adoption of the law. They need to be integrated into these processes and closed businesses that have been unable to open up from the first wave of pandemic, because they are generally very small enterprises, which are all partners in them, with the exception of technical staff. They had not hired technical staff so far and should also be supported. I shall just say one word, Mr President, and I shall close, so that it does not go unanswered, because you have spoken much about Article 68 of the bill and we do not want to see a peak left in relation to the position of the JRC. For us alone, it is only for the electorate to be exempted, the mayors who are actually dragged to the courts because they have disqualified themselves from the commitments to comply with the Memorandumary Restrictions on the logic of deficits, because they have decided to act in favour of people's interests, because they have made decisions, such as the payment of workers whose Memorandum Procurement prevented them from renewing their contracts, but they were absolutely necessary and useful for the people's needs, because they have been contrary to private interests, for example, the municipal authority of Patras who intervened in terms of self-determination for the formation and delivery to the people of the South Park of Patras. In these cases, we believe that this interpretative provision does not cover them, because once again it regains the issue of deficits. In these big parties too, the other parties should be placed. Of course, it is true that we have no intention of covering those who dive the hand in honey that others know and not the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u385	Thank you very much, Mrs Konnakka. Now we're going to the Change Movement, Mrs. Nadia Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u387	Ms. Giannakopoulou, wait a minute. I will give Mr Spanaki the floor, because he has to answer. It's personal. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, I do not want to go into the logic of a number of colleagues and adopt opinions from the Communist Party on my face, who are hiding, and so on. These logics are far from my political education. Allow me, however, - because this equation has been called on many times to solve it - to place myself on the basis of the substance and your amendment, first of all, do not see any ghosts. I would like to ask you to read them on the substance when amendments are made. But a judge is the people and the world. I ask you: do you not want there to be compromise solutions? We here are facilitating compromises with this amendment. Secondly, do you want the lawyers to be penetrated? Thirdly, you spoke and said that disciplinary responsibility goes this way. So if you have doubts about disciplinary responsibility, that it must be self-sufficient, I would refer you to the decisions of the CSCE. and look carefully at the last pages in the amendment I tabled. But if I do not get tired of this House, let me say that I may be the President of the Transport and Cyclades, but I am also from the private sector and I have worked in a large audit firm. In the audit firm, the audit firm itself has criminal responsibility. Civil liability is held by both the sworn and the company. Secondly, we're talking about functional independence. Finally, we are living in 2020 and we need to adapt the provisions of our legislation as it is in modern European states. If you can't follow that logic, it's your problem. So stop having these ghosts and throwing mud. We'll move forward. This amendment has a specific direction, it does not hide anything at all, I have tabled it, and I thank the Minister for his acceptance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much. Mrs. Giannakopoulou has the floor to hear a lawyer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make such an effort to respond to the speech made by Mr Chiara, the Minister, but I would also like to put myself on the amendments. Minister, I have listened very carefully to your position and I have to say that I have now come to a conclusion. That is or that you do not hear what we are telling you or that you do not understand what we are telling you. Because I could not under any circumstances imagine that you are consciously distorting our words to justify the unjustified measures you bring. Really, that's sad. It is regrettable, because the debate that is taking place here, in this Chamber, as much as we have political differences in the way we see things, should be based on a minimum. And at least minim must be understanding what the other person says, what the other person means when he speaks. Otherwise, this could not have been a process here, but a process tramp could have been parallel monologues. So please, even now, try to listen and understand what I'm saying. It is your right to disagree and say, Mrs Giannakopoulou and the Movement of Change, I disagree with what you say to me, but not to change what we say or to speak about others. So, as far as the issue of unjustified abbreviation is concerned, we have put it to you, we have analysed it in your committees and you are coming today from the Step of the House to say that this is essentially due to a law brought by SYRIZA and that you are following the provisions that had come from the previous government. Is that the answer? Are you hiding behind what the previous government did? Because the Greek people - I am sure you have understood - voted for you to do exactly other things than the previous government has brought. Secondly, there has been a lot of talk, perhaps a disproportionately large one - but you have caused it, Minister, very much - in relation to the issues of unconstitutionalism and in relation to the opinion of the Ice Bay administrative plenary. You continue, however, to “walk into the gypsy of the chop” and the Change Movement cannot leave any of the things you say to fall down. So because, from what I understand, you are squeezing away from what you have said, but at the same time, you continue to insist on certain issues, I will also submit to the Minutes, in order to remember what you have said in the debate again. And in our conversation here, in the debate on the articles you said in particular: “Who will judge? Will they judge the decision of the Ice Bay Plenipotentiary? Will the lower court be judged by the Marble Ice?’ So, because this states unjustified ignorance from your institutional side, from your institutional role, from the Minister of Justice, in relation to the issue of unconstitutionality, please very much or not continue to insist or do not try to distort what you have said. I'll testify to it in the Minutes to refresh your memory. With regard to the objections and the answer you have given on the question of filling out the vacancies of the peacekeepers, you have also invoked us in the Change Movement that we are not listening, that we are deaf in what you have said to cover forty-four peacekeeping posts. Did you hear what we said to you in all four committees and today in plenary? Understood? We told you that simply covering the vacant posts, the vacant posts - already thirty-nine seats were vacant only in 2019 plus those that were vacant from previous years - that is not enough. What you are coming today and you say to us 'I will fill the posts which have been vacant' we have told you a thousand times is not enough. We also need new organics. Why, Minister - and here the logic is down - was precisely these courts, with these posts paid, which were in existence, serving the peacekeepers, and which had these problems. Now he's in an even lesser position with these gaps and you don't. It's so clear. We are therefore calling, Mr Tsara, for it to be clear, more organic positions. And, of course, we know that it is a thirty-fifth of peace around Athens, primarily, which have a problem. There is, therefore, the issue and that is what we are asking you to change. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As regards the issue of strategic malpractices, which you specifically referred to in the Change Movement again, it is really important that you perhaps spent most of your time answering the questions we asked you. In relation to strategic mispaids, then, you do something that is very dangerous, because it is intimate, Minister. And it's not just you, the Minister did it in the bankruptcy code. So what are you trying to do? You're trying to create impressions. To create impressions about the slandering of a group of citizens, of the people who have fallen into weakness, so they have had to enter the Katseli law, speaking and creating impressions about supposedly deceitful and strategic malpractices, obviously to justify the unjustified, what you are bringing. I would like to ask you, as many of the speakers in the Change Movement have asked you: Who are these fraudulent or strategic mispaid, Minister? There are also them, but who are you referring to? You refer to those who have borrowed, yes, borrowed, over their powers and capabilities in the days of the 'bad cows' and, after aggressive policy, in the exercise of an extremely aggressive policy of banks, who have taken loan calls, and we all know what the situation was, without most of them knowing where our country would come with the crisis and, of course, without anyone knowing - these were very previous cases - the Katseli law. Who are you talking to, then, Minister? Make it clear to us, don't let insinuate. When you have something to say, say it specifically, not implied. So tell us what strategic mispaids you are talking about, that we, the Change Movement are referring to. Listen. We really live in a very difficult period and a time with the financially weak being pushed even further. Unfortunately, this draft law demonstrates once again that your concern concerns the few and the strong, the banks, the credit institutions and not the weak who need support in all this Armageddon. We're not going to leave you, Minister. We will be here, annoying fly against these unacceptable and class policies, to press for the support of the economically vulnerable and weak. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Very briefly, but these issues are serious, and of course there are many amendments, Mr President. There are too many amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u391	I get it. You're the only one who spoke more about the bill, but we need to be shortened. You've gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u392	These are things that we have to mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u393	I understand. There are many amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u394	I'm sorry. But I'll close. First of all, with regard to the amendment by Mr Kicilia, the Minister for Health, who can of course deny the need to strengthen the National Health System by invoking of course additional doctors and nurses. Of course, we support it, reminding you, but also making you all accountable for the incredible delay in what we have been telling you and we have constantly stressed you and unfortunately you have been deaf. You are now running behind developments, with so many cases, with so many dead, instead of actually going ahead with them. As far as Mr Voridis' amendment is concerned, the parliamentary representative, of course, was also present and we are positive and welcome the sensitivity of the Ministry. It's a sign of culture and education. Of course, it must go ahead in order to give a very strong signal to these appalling behaviours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u395	Thank you very much. Do you have any more?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u396	I'm done, yes. In the amendment from the Ministry of Interior - unfortunately - you are insisting on a failed model of self-government, brought by the previous government, the SYRIZA government, which we have strongly criticised. This law does not change with patches, it changes in total. We shall vote on the amendment by the Ministry of Labour because the measures you bring to support areas affected, such as focus, tourism, the area of artists are, of course, right, but they are very little, they come too late, they are fragmentary and there is no integrated framework. And I would like to close, Mr President, and apologise if I abused time by saying and asking you not to underestimate the common sense of all of us and not to underestimate this Chamber. When you come and tell us that you are not accepting the amendments of the Change Movement simply because - you say - they have not been consulted and you are accepting all the other amendments that had not been put into consultation, so I am sorry, but you are actually causing us to do so. You're playing with the logic of all of us! Can you tell me when the amendments you accept have been put in consultation, so that we can know? When did Mr Spanki's amendment come into consultation?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u397	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u398	Like Mr. Catarini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u399	Please, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u400	Ms. Giannakopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Katrinis in the Change Movement, isn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u402	I say all the amendments, Mr Spaniard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u403	Is it reproaching Mr. Katrin?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Spankee, not dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u405	We were told by Mr Tsiaras that he did not accept the amendments of the Change Movement because they did not enter consultation when he accepted all the other amendments that had never been consulted. We're not going crazy in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u406	You don't even hear what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u407	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u408	We are, however, telling you that it is a pity, because very serious opportunities have been lost both for the administration to comply with the Court of Auditors' decision on the equalisation of men and women, both for injustice and for the judiciary in recognizing actions and, of course, for the harmonisation of the disciplinary law of the Customs Code, for the disciplinary law of other civil servants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u409	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, but you're all taking advantage of me being friendly and leaving you a little bit. You can't do that. It is also the amendments, no objections, but think about the officials, the people you welcome and say 'I love you' and so on. Out. People have been tired since morning. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u410	Minister, we have discussed this bill in detail in committee and here today in plenary, but at the last minute I insist that corrections be made. While the Prime Minister is canceling, hiding and suspending his planned presence in the Parliament for parliamentary scrutiny tomorrow, while everything is suspended until the end of November and, as it turns out, you and frankly I say it, Minister, do not really understand the need. Do you really not think that at least the suffocating time you place on borrowers to make it possible to redefinite their cases, to present all the documents you ask them to do, to table proposals within sixty days of the application being lodged, do you really not think that these people are impossible to make it? At least the suffocating deadlines cannot be suspended until the rest of the restrictive measures? Give them some time, even this. People are in despair right now. Families are at risk of losing their rights in their homes, getting undisturbed in the pandemic, in the economic crisis, and you are insisting on putting these suffocating deadlines. At least a year, you're prolonging him. That's necessary. I come to the amendment 'a deadline for the opinion on the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work'. What are you doing here? You give this committee a deadline of 30 to 2021. In other words, to give its opinion on whether certain categories of professions are entitled to receive the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work. Entities have asked trade unions, labour industries, to subject themselves to and receive this allowance and as long as the opinion of this committee is delayed, these workers lose rights. And you're giving April. For borrowers, no time limit for the suffocators you put in the law. When it comes to workers' rights, later on, and when it comes to borrowers' obligations here and now. Unpaid for them! I come to another amendment, too, of the Minister for Labour. He tabled an amendment to the so-called support for employees in food tourism. But the truth is, he's left them uncovered again. Leave workers out of every grubbing-up of focus and food aid again. You are not interested in and you are predicting nothing about the workers in the tourist offices, tour guides, tourist escorts. Resubmit job suspension instead of subsidizing work, as we tell you since March, with the proposals that we have made in concrete terms in order to subsidise work, to have a consumer power for the workers, to strengthen their income, to strengthen the demand and to face the financial crisis that is taking place. But at the same time there seems to be something else in this amendment that you do not support small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector, only large businesses. This is the result of the amendment. The vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises are apart from any aid from any liquidity. Only the powerful, the great. On the amendment by the Minister for Health to strengthen the ESS, we shall vote 'yes', although you are late, even though your delay is unjustified, even though the ESS needs much greater aid. Although it turns out that you could support the ESS, you haven't done it for months. You didn't hire doctors, you didn't hire nurses and now you come limited - you could do more - you could do it. We shall vote 'in favour'. But you, stop your ideas. We all know that you did not really want public sector support. The knot arrived at the comb. So support the public health system to save lives. I now come to Mr Spankis' amendment. I read in Article 7 of this amendment, which is the essence of the entire amendment, and which is why you bring it, Mr Spanaki: 'He is not persecuted disciplinaryly by a lawyer alone as an administrator or a partner of a law firm for acts or omissions of that person as a legal person'. It is clear that this amendment protects managers and partners of legal corporations operating as collector companies from disciplinary action. You torture borrowers, make them run, rush them to collect the documents you say in the pandemic, with closed banks, with closed DWO, with closed services to find them. You don't care where they find them, as long as they find them. You take care of those who are chasing them. That's what you're doing. It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u411	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Spankee, please. Finish, Mr. Kalamatiane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u413	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, you are not accepting the amendment that we tabled for the financial support of the planetary and open-air retailers and traders who are struggling, Minister. You are accepting other amendments. Not her, though. Not for small sellers, not for the inmates, not for the poor. Only for the powerful and those who want to be settled. That is all, Mr President. I was short.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u414	Of the others, sure. Let's close with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr. Angelo Tsigris.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already closed the thirteenth hour of the meeting and certainly the fatigue of all is strong. But today we leave the House with a sterile refusal from the Opposition, but mainly from the Civic Opposition. I feel like we probably read a different bill. For another bill you are obviously criticising, not for what we are discussing and voting on today. This dogmatic refusal, ladies and gentlemen, has led to you not finding anything positive. We accept your criticism that the ruling of the Katseli Act should not be accelerated. So let's see your argument: you told us that this piece of legislation does not protect the first residence of borrowers. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you have abolished the protection of first residence. You provided it with one of the first bills in 2015 and finalised it with one of your last ones in 2019. You say we speed up the procedures to do the favor of the banks. Let me remind you that you committed yourself to the trial of all cases by the end of 2021. Or don't I remember well? You say that we are abolishing the principle of orality. If you forgot, I would like to remind you that your government in 2015 - with the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure - abolished orality in the ordinary procedure before the political courts. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, you have a very weak memory. I do not want to use the term 'you are not entitled to speak'. I just wanted to ask you a few questions, to which I would ask you to reply so that the people who are following us can be informed. By transferring responsibility for conducting the competitions of candidate lawyers to the plenary session of the lawyers, do you agree or disagree? Do you agree or disagree with the arrangement made by the Government and the Minister of Justice for the lifting of an obvious injustice against the Olympics and paralympic lawyers? Do you agree or disagree with the increase in legal material? You have to tell the lawyers because they're waiting for an answer to understand who's with them and who's against them. Do you have to reply to us whether you agree or do not agree with the introduction of the single pre-concession note on the proposals and the representation in the regular procedure before the court of pacifism, the one-sided and the multi-judicial court? Or do you think it's best for lawyers to stack in line to cut pre-confidence notes at a time when the pandemic starts? You must reply to us about the extension of the visa requirement, by the respective lawyers, of the authentic signature of the lawyers presenting the signing of contracts. Do you agree or do you think lawyers should be stacked in legal clubs? Do you agree with the fact that - through teleconferencing - the meetings and votes of the lawyers' collective bodies? You disagree with that, too. All the law clubs in the country are asking for it. But you have to go out and say that you are against this provision of the bill. To hear it. Do you agree, that judicial officers should be given the right to draw up accreditation reports on facts taken during the performance of their duties and to be assisted by a qualified technical consultant when necessary? If you disagree to tell them. By suspending criminal prosecution for those who normally pay insurance contributions, do you agree or disagree? Ladies and gentlemen, do you think it is right for a debtor to pay the instalments of his insurance contributions properly and, at the same time, for a criminal prosecution to be placed on his head? You've got to answer us. Do you agree with the possibility of holding the Judges' deliberations remotely through technological means? Obviously, you must disagree with that too. Yes, but the season requires it. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, for the co-existence of spouses of judges and diplomats. We really don't understand the reasons for your disagreement. Why should judges and diplomats be an exception when this is provided for in most categories of the public sector? Another provision, with which you disagree and flag it, is that of Article 65, in which the prosecutors of financial crime and corruption crimes are united. Do you forget or do you not know, ladies and gentlemen, that all the states of Europe have done so? Do you forget or do you not know that the Standing Commission for Monitoring the Effects of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure unanimously proposes the immediate integration of the two above Prosecutors with special tasks? Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not answer these questions, which are not mys, but the Greek society and the legal world, you are at risk of being exposed and getting a difficult political cost. Why are you messing with the lawyers, the borrowers, the judges, the administrators, the insurance debtors, and the list has no end. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, even now it is not too late, since the vote has not yet begun. Even now you can vote in favour of the bill under discussion, which is a coherent reform plan for the administration of justice in our country. Mr President, with regard to the amendments tabled by the parliamentary majority, we are voting in favour of all the ministerial amendments and the amendments tabled by my fellow Members under Nos 550 and 551. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, too. And we'll hang up with the Minister of Justice, Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are at the end of a really very hard day, with a debate that was quite intense and, of course, with events which have, to a very large extent, identified a framework for discussion, possibly outside the proposed by the Ministry of Justice and the government of a bill. The truth is that, in my opinion, there was an unjustified tension concerning the Prime Minister's announcements and the issues of the treatment of the pandemic. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, are you in favour of Lockdown or against? Are you in favour of the measures proposed by the government or rejected? There was a unique contradiction. Almost the overwhelming majority of colleagues who were in Stepma on one hand said that it was badly the lockdown and that the economy was ruined and on the other hand, "you were late to make a lockdown". Ladies and gentlemen, there is an assumption which I think is indisputable. And it must be in your mind, in order to shape a minimum credibility position towards the Greek society. What's that assumption? Have you seen what's going on in our neighbouring countries? Have you seen what is happening to other European countries? Do you think the pandemic problem with what it brings, is just a Greek issue? Is this a matter concerning our country, Greece? You do not understand, do you not see, do you not read about tens of thousands of cases every day in large, serious countries that have been supposed to have supported the social state for years? Can't you see what's going on in France? Can't you see what's going on in Spain? Can't you see what's going on in Italy, in Great Britain? You don't read every day? It's like we've isolated what's happening in connection with the pandemic, just in the Greek area. Instead of making a reasonable contribution to this great effort that all Greek society must do and which obviously has to have as a teacher the political system, you come here to a reasonable micropolitical confrontation and you say anything. Really? Was the country's health system shielded from the previous period, as I heard? Were all the problems solved? Were all the recruitments planned? And nothing's happened in the last few years? Instead of saying a great "thank you" to all those who support with their role, with their work the National Health System, doctors, nurses, the administrative staff of hospitals, who are all giving a superhuman race all this time, are commenting which not only gives them the power or creates the real reason to try further, but discourage them and lead them to a completely different logic? Ladies and gentlemen, I think it requires a little greater - I repeat - responsibility and seriousness of all of us. It is not the pandemic of political controversy, and we must all understand it. I was amazed by the complaining speech made by colleagues, particularly by SYRIZA, that the Prime Minister's scheduled debate with the Chief of Officer's Opposition was cancelled tomorrow. Did you not understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the agenda has changed? You don't understand that reality has changed? Did you not realize that all that was going to be discussed tomorrow and announced or possibly answered by the Prime Minister has already been answered to a large extent in his current interview at noon? Nor did you see that there is already an announcement from the Government representative that on Tuesday, 10 November, the Prime Minister will come to Parliament where, on the basis of Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, he will respond with the participation of all political leaders? Who's leaving a live conversation? Let me get this straight. Truly, he gave a feeling these months that the country's Prime Minister has avoided being in Parliament, why is he supposed to be afraid? Really? Who believes that? Let's be very serious. When there are data that Mr. Tsipras in the last four years has come to a total of ten times and answered topical questions in the House, while in these fifteen months Mr.Mitsotakis has answered six topical questions, you realize that this comparison also makes you exposed. It's impressive that SYRIZA's first-class officials came here to say the Prime Minister's fugitive. You don't understand what's going on, like living in a parallel universe, in another reality. All of this, however, must be seen as a whole. And because I have to go back to the bill and give at least the framework that I believe the Greek citizens have taken on, through my own fundamental positions, but also the positions of colleagues in the Coupling, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is a real reform bill. It is a bill which, by means of a process that comes from the previous government, gives answers and solutions to a timely problem which has exposed our country many times and at the level of discussions with the institutions and at the level of the Convention on Human Rights, but of course also at the level of justice internally. I don't want to repeat the same. I will tell you that specifically there is a date on 22 June 2018, when the Greek authorities at Eurogroup that day committed themselves to taking all the necessary steps to clear the cases of Law 3861/2010 by the end of 2021. How many times do you want me to say it so we can figure it out? You're telling me that I don't answer your questions or I don't understand what you're saying? Have you thought that the other way around is likely to happen? Because, on the one hand, the European powers, the political parties that are supposed to belong to the European forces, are perceived as a contractual obligation of the country, which starts from the past. We said, the period of hallucinations and hallucinations has passed, I hoped in return. Looks like he's coming back. But rather, because the day is heavy and because there were other kinds of revelations, I understand that tension must also create many other reasons in order to transfer the field of discussion elsewhere. The point is, however, that there was a contractual obligation in the country, which absolutely had to be covered, there was one issue I repeat, in the human rights convention, and we know it very well and it concerns the course of the trial. There was also one fact that Greek justice was faced with the phenomenon, assumptions introduced in 2015, to take the date of identification of a debate in 2028, in 2029, in 2032. What honours, ladies and gentlemen, this reality? Shouldn't it end in some way? The correctness of all the procedural provisions of the proposed draft, I think I answered it earlier. It is, however, surprising that even at the very last moment, it is invoked by the fact that there was an opinion from the Administrative Assembly of the Ice Bay. You know what I think? And I am quite surprised that even at the last minute it sounds like it was important or essential. Seems to me like you've probably been in front of a surprise. You didn't expect it to exist. Having obviously supported most of the account, the objections, the confrontation in the part of the unconstitutionality of this bill, it was obviously a great surprise for you to find yourself before a positive opinion of the administrative plenary session of the Ice Bay. Look, we need to make a few things clear and we need to know exactly where we are, because only in this case do we leave no room for doubt, that there are misunderstandings, or much more to create, if you like, all the reasons why and justice are being called into question on the part of the Greek society, but much more to do with its prestige. Because that's what this is about. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all understand this. Justice is independent, and all of us must support the independence of justice. Most of the Members who were in Stepma spoke in such a way that they did not accept the independence of justice. I may make an effort to understand it for the side of SYRIZA's Officers, perhaps they had another view of the previous period, but all other colleagues would like to assure you that not only do we strengthen the personal and functional independence of Greek judges and the independence of Greek justice, but we do everything possible to regain justice to the citizens' conscience as the real island that one can address in order to feel safe. This should be the logic of a government that respects the separation of powers. There have been many things that have been heard before: Criminal responsibilities, I have responded. That we are not observing the deadlines. Do you not know that the deadlines for this bill, ladies and gentlemen, which may have to do with the debtors but also with the banks, are the same? You don't know that? Do you think there are different deadlines for debtors and different deadlines for creditors? Is that somewhere? The burden of proving the allegations, since this rhetoric question has been raised many times, do you not know that the burden of proving the allegations always has the effect on the applicant for judicial protection? Isn't that a standard procedural principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u418	This does not apply to objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u419	About the objections...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u420	Not really. So you believe that a court can judge five, ten or fifteen years after the initial application has been submitted without the evidence being updated. Where is this just truth? Tell me. Is it possible for our legal culture that there is no real evidence base? Because here there is a populism inflation. Everyone comes and says what he wants in the sense of what we like and what we do not like without taking into account that all this is working in a specific procedural framework which cannot be made a hobby in the way of beams, because he wants to be pleasurable to Greek citizens through those who may cause problems or concerns. Finally, I would like to reply to the question or recommendation or exhortation made by Mr Loverdos for the WEU which is pending. Ladies and gentlemen, you who are fighting lawyers must be aware that in order for there to be a joint ministerial decision on the functioning of the courts through the different conditions to be created due to Lockdown, there must be a certain time for consultation and agreement between the parties involved, between the judges, the lawyers and, of course, the Ministry, because that is what our institutional role requires, that also requires the Constitution, that there may be a consultation. But, from there on, you do not know that at the same time there must be a provision of all procedural procedures and that is a very difficult equation for deadlines, for limitations, for matters relating to existing legislation? Do you think it's an easy exercise? Do you believe that people from the area of justice in the Ministry of Justice are not sufficient and do not do everything possible to find a solution to this problem? In any case, I think we'll have been on Saturday morning. The courts will run on Monday morning. Theoretically tomorrow night, we'll have the new NSA. However, I am also concerned about the criticism, but also about the importance of many who are very hasty to judge why we are slow to make a joint ministerial decision, or why they are not in their own hands. Because it must be a product of consultation and it must be a product of agreement, I repeat, with all the parties involved, and we must also foresee all the procedural issues that arise. Finally, because it has been heard many times and I am truly impressed by the alleged removal in view of the unification of the two public prosecutors in the NOVARTIS file. I am sorry to repeat myself, but at some point I think I should be clear and stop emiting perhaps different messages from what reality each time proves to us that there are. Have you read the bill, ladies and gentlemen, to remove the file that has been heard and rehearsed and rehearsed by many Member States of the Opposition? Transitional provisions for the Department of Economic Crime, paragraph 1, at some point: "For the term of office of Financial Crime Prosecutors ends automatically by the placement of the Prosecutors of Economic Crime and the Head of the Department of Economic Crime in accordance with Article 65. Until the end of their term of office in the previous subparagraph, the already acting prosecutors shall continue to perform their duties in accordance with Articles 33 to 36 of the Code of Criminal Procedure as they were before being replaced by Article 65 of this and paragraph 3 of this Article; for you, Mr Kalamatanese -: ‘The competences in all pending cases before the Prosecutors of Economic Crime and Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Prosecutors of Corruption and Pros of Corruption are automatically in the Department of Economic Crime established by the present’. Is that how the files disappear from independent justice? Tell me to figure it out. Unless I don't read Greek properly, or I don't understand what I'm saying, or what I read to you just isn't enough to understand the obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that a lively debate in the Greek Parliament is obviously part of political confrontation, which is the different viewpoint. I totally understand that. And as an old parliamentarian, not only do I adopt it, but I think that it is the essence of democracy, it is the essence of parliamentary function, but, apart from the fact that I may have asked you to do together a parliamentary exercise for the Justice Ministry, I will tell you once again that reality is one and is unique. She's one and she's undeniable. And of course, if each of us can appreciate it differently, Greek citizens are able to judge us in relation to our own assessments and choices. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that in the relevant parliamentary committees and in plenary a debate on another bill is concluded. If all we have discussed is not able to convince you, I understand, it is within the general function of parliament and democracy, I repeat once again, but it is the Greek citizens who are finally judging us. I think that in this great effort that the government has been making over recent years and to modernise procedures relating to the functioning of justice and to shorten this huge time, which unfortunately comes as a pathetic time from the past to the administration of justice, but of course also to take rapid steps towards digital justice, it is a matter that has been declared as a real need for many years as well from the field of justice itself, as well as from the Greek society. And we at this time with a great deal of effort, with seriousness and responsibility we are doing everything possible to move to another era for justice, at another time of modernization and reform in the field of justice, at a time when the Greek citizen will feel that he has the safe island that gives him the sense of security, he has the justice that can serve him and can support him whenever necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u421	The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is hereby terminated: "Confidentiality of speeding up pending cases under Law 3869/2010 in accordance with the requirements of Article 6(2). 1 ECHR regarding the reasonable duration of the political trial, amendments to the Code of Lawyers and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-three articles, seven amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u422	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u423	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u424	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Approximate arrangements for the expediting of pending cases by the Minister of Justice. 3869/2010 in accordance with the requirements of Article 6(1). 1 RESEARCH on the reasonable duration of the political trial, amendments to the Code of Laws and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u425	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u426	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-05-S1-commons.u427	With the consent of this House at 23.59 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 6 November 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
