ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-7-2020, the minutes of the PPE meeting were ratified by the Bureau on Tuesday 21 July 2020 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Promoting electricity and other provisions’.]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion on the ‘Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination on the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papagopoulos in the performance of his duties’, on the acceptance or not of the proposal for a prosecution, against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, and decision, by secret ballot, on the Commission's proposal and separately on any alleged act or omission, for which a prosecution is sought, as determined and specified in its findings, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution (in particular the par. 3), 153 pp. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 2 and 3 of Article 157, and of Article 3126/2003 "Trade Responsibility of the Ministers" (particularly paragraphs 2 and 3). Article 6, 2 and 3), as applicable. The conclusion will be discussed in accordance with paragraph 3 of Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. It will be general and it will refer to the assumption or not of the proposal to prosecute. On procedural matters, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 16-7-2020, I propose that Members should organise themselves in four circles of speakers. The debate will begin with a first circle of six speakers, representing the six parliamentary groups with speaking time for each 15 minutes without the right to second reading. The first will be the Member from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group who has tabled the proposal (Article 91(3) in conjunction with Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure). The second, third and fourth cycles pursuant to Rule 65(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure shall be composed of 12 Members. In particular, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will come from five Members, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group three Members and one MEP from each of the other four parliamentary groups, five minutes without a second-right speaking time. The Parliamentary Groups have already submitted a list of speakers and the Office has drawn up a single list in which the Members of the Assembly will alternate with the Members of the House, in order to respect the analogy of the power of the Parliamentary Groups. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups, as defined in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, may also, if they so wish, participate in the debate. The speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Chief of Officerial Representation is up to twenty minutes and up to fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the remaining four parliamentary groups. The ministers, if they wish, will speak for ten minutes of the hour. Parliamentary representatives will be speaking for 10 minutes without the right to denial and without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Rule 167(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In other words, since the President of the Parliamentary Group has spoken before, they will speak for six minutes. If the parliamentary representatives speak in a circle, we leave it at their discretion, after consultation. The Prime Minister, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, have the right to intervene whenever they wish (Rule 97(4) of the Rules of Procedure). Any changes in the order of speaking should take place in exceptional circumstances, after the list has been drawn up with a letter from the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group to which the Members belong, addressed to the Bureau and subject to the need for mutual change. Under Rule 157(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, during the debate the House may call upon the one against whom the proposal to prosecute is turned and, if he is not yet a member of the Government, a State Secretary or a Member, to appear before it and to be heard. The second subparagraph of Article 155(6) shall apply accordingly. The person against whom the proposal is directed, if he wishes, is to speak for thirty minutes. The information we have is that Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos will appear before the House in order to hear his views. I propose that she speak immediately after the first circle of six speakers, without prejudice to the rights of the Heads of Parliament and of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. And I would ask you to stick to it, that is to say, after the six main speakers. In any event, the person mentioned above has the right to submit to Parliament a memorandum of censure registered in the Minutes (Rule 155(6) of the Rules of Procedure). After the introduction of the person mentioned in the proposal has been completed, we will enter the circles of prohibitions made up of twelve Members. As decided in the 16-7-2020 Conference of Presidents, the debate will be concluded by 9 a.m. until 9 a.m. so that immediately after the start of the vote, as I will describe later on. Does this House consent?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u2	The House has consented. We shall now proceed to the vote. At the end of the debate and in accordance with Rule 73 and Rule 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Plenary Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the committee's proposal and separately on any alleged act or omission for which the prosecution is sought, as defined and specified in that committee's findings, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 86 of the Constitution (in particular paragraph of Article 2 of the Constitution). 3), 153 pp. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 2 and 3 of Article 157, and of Article 3126/2003 "Trade Responsibility of the Ministers" (particularly paragraphs 2 and 3). Article 6, 2 and 3), as applicable. The debate, as I said before, will be closed at the latest as decided at the Conference of Presidents by 9 a.m. and then a secret vote will be taken. This decision is taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, i.e. by a hundred and fifty and one votes, as defined in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. In order to carry out the secret ballot, you will be distributed a large dossier containing the ballot in which each complaint is recorded separately or omission for which prosecution is sought in accordance with the committee's proposal, a white ballot and a smaller file in which the ballot will be placed. I would also like to inform the House here that fellow Members or members of the Government who are on a mission of Parliament and the Government abroad can vote by letter in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House. In this case before the vote, their votes will be delivered to the Bureau in the small envelope, which must be closed. This closed file will also be enclosed in a larger second file which will also state the name of the Member or the member of the Government who will vote by written vote. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. The rollout will be delivered by accredited colleagues from Members of Parliament or members of the Government who are to vote in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The vote will start no later than 9 p.m. and will take place with the successive turnout of Members for health reasons in three groups of a hundred Members. The alphabetical turn of Members will be respected in order to vote. Each team will come in every hour and vote. In other words, the first group from Abdelas Apostleos to Callianos John from 9 to 10 at night. The second team from Kalogannis Stavros to Nikolakopoulos Andreas from 10 to 11 at night, and the third team from Notopoulou Catherine to Psychogios George from 11 to 12 at night. The Committee of Inquiry will then proceed to the sorting and counting of votes. Do you approve of this proposal, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u3	The House agrees unanimously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u5	Sure. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Dimitris Janakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u6	Without the disputing, because this procedure is extremely serious and politically critical, I would say in particular in the first circle of speakers, which is set out in the fifteenth minute, and given that we had a preliminary examination committee, which held seventy meetings, tried to work out the way in which everyone chose to process a material of thirty-three thousand pages and operated for nine months, there was at least a tolerance at the level of the suggestions and, in any case, an even greater tolerance, because five minutes could not be taken seriously in relation to all of this, those speakers who, from any party, who have participated in the preliminary examination committee. I understand the issue of time pressure, but on the other hand there must be a normal and detailed debate in plenary on what has been said in particular within the Committee on Examination, which, in our view, is also crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, thank you very much. Merra25 will not participate in this process. I want to read two pages that I have written and read from here. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all it is a rhetorical question to all of you: Do you think that while the Turks have taken off half their fleet in the southern Aegean, while the Prime Minister triumphs for forty-eight hours because he has managed to get seventeen billion, which he calls in some metaphysical way seventy or seventy-two, while the COVID -19 has recovered and counts four times daily cases and at the same time the tourist season does not say to open, it is clear that he will never open despite any other prestigious government officials like Mr. Petsas, etc., while all this is happening in the country among you who thinks that a Greek people who sees us on television at the moment takes any of us seriously when we continue this unwitting witch hunt, which has no point in any sense at all? I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, from the preamble to the Committee of Inquiry, we were still talking about courtesy of this Parliament and about the conversion of Members of Parliament, namely us, into prosecutors and even partisan prosecutors, as the practical objective of the participants is certainly not to highlight any truth but only to promote the party to the detriment of the rest of the parties and all that within a micro-political framework that undermines politics from producing proposals to resolve the problems of our society in a field of conflict on our supposed morality. So our attitude was clear from the outset. We don't participate in this pragmatism. We do not agree to be able to do so in terms of micro-participatory cowards, as to which of us are supposedly the clearest. We choose the difficult path of policy production. The parties to the Memorandum of Understanding, of course, have no choice but to deduct themselves from the policy of allegedly moral superiority vis-à-vis the opponents. Would it not be a serious matter to ask me the purity, the full character of the members of our political staff? Of course, it is very serious, but it is not in any case the work of the Members to investigate it and to draw conclusions on it. It is a job of justice. We, as Mer25, have tabled a concrete proposal to establish a body to prosecute political and business crime. And don't be surprised, because political crime, as we all know in this Chamber, goes hand in hand with big business crime. We have therefore tabled this proposal. This body will have just this power to locate rotten apples into our civilian staff, acting independently of political staff and accounting for independent, as it should be, Greek justice. Listen to me. Democracy is deeply suffering us in the years of the eternal memorial. The parties that serve the lenders and the local oligarchy, parties that actually act as political representatives of our people of interests, are systematically turning Parliament into a mere-trag that produces no politics, but simply validates imported norms with all the game of political confrontation into whether they have been implemented well - well for whom? - these imported diarrhea. We, as Mer25 I mean, choose to speak, to do and to function systematically politically. For that very reason and with all due respect to all of you, we leave this sitting. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u11	Good, it's been recorded. Mr Georgiadis has asked for the floor on a point of order. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to agree with Mr Janakopoulos. Inside the speakers we are obviously also people who, for various reasons, have been involved in this process. I would like these speakers to have a greater tolerance in time, because the five minutes certainly are not enough to express what we want to say to the House and the Greek people on this serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u13	I will respond to what you have said in total. Anyone else want to talk? Oh, no. As far as the priority speakers are concerned, I think we will take the speaking time to twenty minutes, but the request will be warm to twenty. We do not leave it at 15 to constantly press to complete. We put the 20 minutes in place, but we must prepare the speakers as a priority, so that the twenty minutes will be twenty. As far as the rest are concerned, there will be a reasonable tolerance. When it's five minutes the speaking time, put your mind in percentage and calculate what's reasonable. We won't have to specialize. In order not to waste any more time, we shall proceed to the proceedings, and I call on the New Democracy MP, Mr Athanasios Plearis. Mr. Flouris, you have the floor for twenty minutes, as we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss a very serious issue. Of course our minds are in the Aegean. We are ready, with coolness and determination, to face the Turkish challenge in order to defend our national laws. Today's debate has the peculiarity of having to do with the quality of our democracy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in democratic systems, there is respect for the separation of powers and, at the same time, no one sees the powers as joints to understand them. The SYRIZA government, of which the pre-examination committee resulted, actually faced all powers as a fort that wanted to understand, and from this fort actually wanted to turn against whoever was undeserved, whether he was a natural person or a political person. What SYRIZA often tells us and we have lived on the pre-review committee - to see how everyone understands the distinction of powers - is this: 'Would you not expect justice to decide? How will you prosecute the moral automobile if we do not have a decision on the natural automobile?' What's the matter, ladies and gentlemen? You didn't say the whole thing. Because what you wanted to say is that we want the decision of justice, it saves and well, it is what is consistent with our own beliefs. What were you doing all the time? With a struggle, the SYRIZA Members - and I appreciate them one by one, and it was a painful effort - within this whole process they were working as defenders of Mr. Papagelopoulos. And now we have a decision of justice. What is the judgment of justice that has gone beyond us? Because we here, ladies and gentlemen, are at the stage of the preliminary investigation. We're looking to find out if there's any evidence sufficient to prosecute criminally. Greek justice, therefore, found that there are signs at the stage of the natural sewer and prosecuted criminals. So, he's been through us at this stage. There's a decision that tells us someone's been doing some kind of deeds. There's evidence. This means prosecuting criminal law and must be investigated if and since there has been abuse of power and a number of other offences in the case of "NOVARTIS". What are you guys doing? What you did in the pre-inquiry. Whoever says anything, let's deceive him. Is Mrs. Riku here that her husband is involved in this case? You hide that in your study of "NOVARTIS" by your own, by the one you have appointed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and is still to date, Mrs Ryku's husband has been exempted and is judged by the finding that all prescriptions he has made to medicines are prescriptions that meet the conditions. And another unrelated investigation is involved. Mr. Angelis? Only psychopaths didn't tell him in the pre-request committee. Mrs. Cleveland? He shouldn't be in this House. Mr. Athanasios? He's a man who wanted to renew his term. Mrs. Tsatani? What can he tell us after he had a son associated with the New Democracy? And now your courage is enough for Mr. Zechar. I respect Mr. Sofulakis, and I think two prosecutors have done an investigation. We have the unprecedented fact of reaching a contradictory conclusion, but I respect both of them, which they have investigated and which they evaluate. And on the basis of Mr Zacharhi's finding, a criminal prosecution was brought to the prosecutor's attention. You can't respect this. You want to make a confrontation. I'm telling you, for Mr. Sofulaki, I'll never say anything against him. He judged the man with the evidence he had. So Greek justice has persecuted the natural entrant, and here we should normally say that this persecution exists and we should see whether the terms of the moral surgeon are fulfilled. What has happened in the case of NOVARTIS, ladies and gentlemen? The “NOVARTIS” case begins in 2016, with reports that exist and refer to protected witnesses who have testified in America. In 2017, there has been a first investigation in Greece and there is no person involved, the then prosecutor of corruption, Mrs. Riku is under pressure. And these pressures are proved by a number of elements that we have within our findings. He calls it by Mr. Papagelopoulos and asks her to send the file to the House by implying and directly insinuating to build evidence against political people and, at the same time, visiting a journalist who tells her why she has not yet sent the file, Mrs. Papadakou. Mrs Ryku does not give in because she wants to do her duty and has done so very well, because the investigation at that time - both in bills and everything - starts with Mrs Ryku. And because you're going to say again about her husband, see what the U.S.H.E.L.D. conclusion says for the 2,000 euros. Mr Spyridis, appointed by Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Paulakis to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has not found any responsibility. He did the investigation. Suddenly there is a post in 'DOCUMENTO'. Mrs. Ryku quits. And be careful what's going on. The seat's on the ground. It is to be taken over by Mrs Toulupaki and reacts to an appealing prosecutor, Mrs Kyvelos. The first publication against Mrs Ryku is 'DOCUMENTO'. A post in "DIMMOCRATIA" against Mrs Cyvelo on an irrelevant subject. She is taking over by Mrs Tulupaki, the prosecutor for corruption. How then, ladies and gentlemen, are your instruments placed for a Prime Minister's involvement in the case? From this step, Mr. Tsipras has said about the involvement of political persons and Mr. Papagelopoulos has said that the case of "NOVARTIS" is greater than the case of "SIEMENS", when no investigation has been carried out in Greece, because the protected witnesses involved in political persons appear in November and what I am saying to you is January - February. Three protected witnesses appear to be under protection because they are referred to as being involved in American justice. For Mr. Maniadakis, it was a related case that controlled him for his actions and omissions. As far as the other two are concerned, one is directly referring to American justice as a person in the key positions. And not only that, in the course of the debate, one named him in the case of Mr. Loverdos, for whom he has been prosecuted, and we will see how the prosecution was carried out there. He's named after him as the person who was washing money. They were the guard witnesses. An investigation is under way, and the file doesn't come to the Greek Parliament. He comes after three, four months. And you know what? It comes for the first time a petition made by the Members of the Change Movement against SYRIZA Ministers, who did not issue a price report in 2015. Mr Paulakis told us that 'we did not have time to open the lockboxes, we would have issued a price report'. And it was sent at the moment by the prosecution of corruption, which had been banned. Your ministers have escaped, because that was infidelity, the definition, if we want to hear. 7% reduction in the pharmacological cost in each price sheet. No price report came out at two billion and a hundred forty million. Infidelity! But it comes after the crime has been eliminated, while the file has been in place since April 2017. Mr. Janakopoulos has gone - who will tell us and tell us - to be informed by the Ice Arrow's Attorney's office of sending the file. The file's coming to the House. There is the famous statement at the request of Mr. Tsipras by Mr. Papaggiopoulou that in half an hour he saw the file he concluded that it was the biggest scandal from the Greek state's payment. But it wasn't half an hour when he'd seen it and it wasn't the biggest scandal. Because Mr. Papagelopoulos has been directing the whole process since the first moment. He knew all the details of the file, channelled them into the mills, because no one else could have them. No one had been reported to the Corruption Prosecutor. Only the Corruption Attorney knew them. And it was Mr. Papagelopoulos who was connected to the journalists who took them off. Do you know what's going on? That they were getting off before they got there. Because on two occasions the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO' has made 'prosecution' that came out right. In the first case, while it closes on February 2nd, it announces the deposit given on February 4th. The crypto, ladies and gentlemen, is that on November 11, 2017, it says that a protected witness will come out of protection, because he does not say what he has to say. And, indeed, his testimony is given on 27/11. What does Mr Maniadakis say to us? He sent a message to Mr Vaxvanis and replied to him that 'I am talking about you'. In other words, a journalist - you who protect the protected witnesses and say - knew who was a protected witness. And that's what only the prosecutor of corruption could know at that time and only Mr. Papagelopoulos, who was connected. Disciplinary persecutions Riku, disciplinary persecutions, because they reacted. Eight months lost the case. There's nothing going on. And in November suddenly the protected witnesses, who have said that we 'closed our statements', are returning. Protected witnesses return, and what does Mr Angelis say then? It comes and says that 'they wanted to prosecute Mr Loverdos, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Salma until 20 December'. And what's going on? Protected witnesses ask about these faces. It is then that Mr Maniadakis also says that he is threatened, comes out of the self-protecting regime, while he sent us his messages, said he was in Madrid, he had gone to Madrid five times that year and had rented a house. And after five days, after the meeting has taken place in Vienna, Mr. Angelis says they would say to the Americans "to prosecute these three persons", a post in "Dimouratia" and Mr. Angelis resigns. What does Mrs. Demetrius tell us at the testament that she didn't tell Mr. Zecharis and Mr. Sophollakis? Mr. Zecharis and Mr. Sofulakis asked her: 'The Angel told you something about Rasputin?' It says: 'No'. And he came to us and said: "Yes, he told me on his resignation that Papagelopoulos is behind the post." The next day, ladies and gentlemen, they go to Mr Kalogerou and want us to believe that what Mr Angelis said to Mrs Demetrios at seven, he did not say so to Mr Kalogerou at eight. And because he sees that there is nothing that Mr Angelis does, he also makes a mention of defiance of acts 21 February and says that "they have done everything." This report is being detained by Mrs Demetrius because of the elections, because - he says - the Marios Ice was loaded. What's going on? Renewal of Ms Toulupaki's term of office. Inside Mrs. Demetrius and she doesn't say there's a reference to that. And as soon as he comes out on the "CORD" part of the report, it becomes preliminary. And on the basis of this preliminary, we are here, based on the reference of Mr Angelis, who lived all these things and came. That's where the reverse plan begins. And the prosecuting plan didn't come out. And you know how it's a prosecuting plan? Mrs Tulupaki sent her here, saying she's in the Minister's office. Mr. Papagelopoulos had announced that he was not in the Minister's duties and the file must be returned. With the return there could also be persecution, as initiated, condoms could also be carried out, as Mr Angelis said, because they are now in common offences. Listen to the spectacular. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bribery offence. Mr Papagelopoulos raised a scientific opinion on Mr Loverdos that bribery is not in the Minister's duties, but he did not object to us in committee. I mean, bribery when it's for others, regular justice. When it's about Papagelopoulos, go to committee. For the first time on page 549 of the finding Mr. Lappas quotes: "Others we have a hundred fifty pages of objection. The half of SYRIZA is an objection." What are the differences here, ladies and gentlemen? That Mr Loverdos, who could object that justice does not have competence, went and gave written explanations and said that "I really want acquittal". And Mr. Papagelopoulos and SYRIZA have a hundred and fifty pages in your statement of objections to the procedure. You don't want the case to be searched, you want it to be searched in the process. And you didn't even object to bribery, to go to regular justice to see it, as has been prosecuted by natural persecutors. Let's see what's going to happen to morals, because Mrs. Toulouse didn't have all of these faces before, and she didn't get them - she gave them to journalists. The other cases, which are linked to Mr. Papagelopoulos, are coming. Mr. Mioney's case. In August 2015, a report by Mr. Filipakis. September is Mrs Papadakou going with the prosecutors - have you heard that? - get a statement from Mr. Faltsiani. In March 2016, Mr.Mionis met at the Maximos Mansion with Mr. Papapas and Mr. Papagelopoulos. And at this meeting, which is not even called into question its content, Mr. Papagelopoulos says about money. The Deputy Minister of Anti-corruption talks about money. And he says: 'I meant the expenses'. What did your Deputy Minister of Justice have to do with a man who at the time is controlled by justice? He refuses to give in to extortion. In a week of five legal actions at the expense of Mr Mionis. Mr. Mononis was at ease. Do you know why? Because he was touching Papastaurou, Papastavrous "was touching" Samaras. He was helping you to record the election. And from the dialogue that Mr Papapas has admitted, which we are hearing, beyond the'magazins' and the'magagagagagaga' of Mr Papagelopoulos, and do not mock the world, he says that 'we have the'magazins', he has his agenda, he enters our'magazins' and 'no go' - he also uses this concept - 'it is not to spoil our agenda'. It says three months after Kyriakos Mitsotakis - January, they are meeting - for Marva: "say about Marva". And then, all your means see what they've done for Mrs. Grabovski - Mitsotakis. Because that's where you were. You wanted to target the whole world, the wife of the Chief of Officer's Resistance. Then Mr. Pappas asks, that Papastavrou be told about Marva if he wants to get out of trouble. These things you're supporting. He then wins the cases, Mr. Mononis, and is forced to sign a contract which, again in the presence of Mr. Papagelopoulos, is committed to archive the cases and to obtain exculpatory advice. And that is what you say to me that it is normal and that Mr Pappas has said that the agreement is unacceptable. There is also a meeting later, which says that 'to see how the course of the agreement went.' The whole Mioney case was concerned and it was, indeed, a draft for the NOVARTIS case. Then it was to see the potential of the system. It also has economic benefit, it also has political benefit, because we "shut" Samara and "shut" and Marva. Then, however, we now enter the great picture that we are close to the elections, to prosecute political persons, to interrogate and possibly to safeguard them. I'm fine! And that didn't come out, not because someone prevented it, because they talked to two prosecutors and why the witnesses didn't agree to cooperate with you. That's all the reality you're supporting. So what is going on in this whole context? We see the course of the cases. The proceedings of the seven political groups are archived. But when? Either one, two days before the European elections or in between the European elections and the parliamentary elections. Let's go to the other plan now. Now it's not coming out. Let's go make the script that "but we've archived." Mr. Loverdos is being persecuted and persecuted by a witness of a protected witness who is involved, "Maximus Sarafis", who has been named by another witness that he was taking the money and has also brought evidence. The FBI documents are directly referred to as a protected person and has a benefit. But leave the benefit. I say to you that it is mentioned as a person who has been associated with bribes. In the case of Mr. Mioney again, what's going on? The case of the criminal organisation is archived again at the stage of European elections and parliamentary elections by the same prosecutor. And now, because you came out and told us, we came to see the documents that the famous case with the fourth interrogator also has exonerating proposal because he withdrew a legal aid document from Cyprus. In all this, then, a man, an economic prosecutor, comes and says: “They pushed me for the channels. For Mr. Alfouzo, I was pressed because we had to check him out and block the statements so that SKAI wouldn't get permission for another series of cases. Mrs. Tsatani is coming. Same faces. Once again, the same journalist, Mr. Vaxvanis, is making the complaint. Archived initially, changed law and then prosecuted by Mrs Thanos. So this whole framework comes and is filed by five prosecutors. And a prosecutor of the Ice Bay has also been convinced. He was convinced that these things have happened and is prosecuting. The head of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor comes in and prosecutes him. And all that stuff you do is don't keep an eye on it, that it shouldn't be searched. I ask you: is the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that he asked for criminal prosecution to be exercised by a public prosecutor was not sufficient to make a preliminary inquiry committee, which you were against? So that was the framework in the direction of the Great Maximus. And here's our difference. We would also put criminal responsibilities on the former Prime Minister if there were to be linking criminal responsibilities. At the moment we charge him with political responsibility for allowing all of this, closing his eye on it all and letting a Mr. Papaggiopoulou control the critical prosecutors and controlling the critical prosecutors to be able to prosecute people, target, effectively make them give in to the government's cheques. We heard businessmen in other cases asking to give Mr. Kalogritsa money. He said, ‘Mr. Kontomenis said, ‘Mr. Marinakis, different people, that you asked him to make a channel. We heard the discussions on the Eye that the Chief of the Fire Corps says "saving them" and says "do not hurt the Durus". So that was the whole context of the offense you have made, and the criminal responsibility has to do with Mr Papagelopoulos at this stage. Because he orchestrated all this effort. That was the moral automobile of actions. He's the one who blackmailed Mr. Mioney. He made the bribery of a political person because he asked for money and enough to ask for money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We come here and say that two offences are unstable. The challenge of committing a felony is not right because you changed the Criminal Code and now it takes a reward, and it turns out that the prosecutors were pressed. No one promised them a reward. And we consider that there is no crime of moral automobile in false testimony.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Flouris, please hang up to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u16	Yeah, right now, not a minute. On the contrary, it has the moral automobile to abuse of power for which criminal prosecution has already been prosecuted. It has the moral automobile in the misuse of power, which has already been prosecuted by criminal law in Mrs Toulupaki. It has the moral automobiles for breaching a duty for which criminal prosecution has already been prosecuted. And you know what's going on? She was prosecuted by the State Prosecutor and for two other offences we didn't put in. In other words, Greek justice was much more severe. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, and we have this in our conclusion, Candide refers to three principles which he must always have in mind. The first principle that it governs people. Will you tell me what we heard in Matty, did you respect the man? You didn't respect the ten political faces when you didn't respect the dead. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Say what you want. To the chief of the firefighting you filed your complaints with! The second principle is to rule according to the laws. You broke every law! The moral advantage of the Left made it an article in the Criminal Code! And the third principle is that you don't always rule. But the totalitarianism that characterizes you is what made you think you would always rule and imprison your political opponents. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u17	I call to Stepma Mr. Lappa from SYRIZA for 20 minutes. Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Plori, you're doing well until the 20th minute, but in the last minute you've had one dive in the tombs, in the hybrids and in the slander. And so the last one is left to seal both the moral and the quality of your political and legal word. You've spoken legally for nineteen minutes. I don't do it. I will speak politically, at political level, to listen to Greek society. And because you started with a reference to the crisis of our relations with the neighbor, I'd like to use it differently and vice versa. If, indeed, you believe that there is a national crisis in our relations with Turkey today, this debate should not be held. The least you should do is not have this debate here today, if you believe, indeed, that consensus is needed, unanimity to face a real danger. Unless otherwise you've agreed in Berlin, as Erdogan himself revealed. I'm just saying this introductory terms because you mentioned it. Now we're going to discuss it. I am thinking in April 2015 when this Step by the then Minister of Corruption, Mr. Nikoloudis, then discussing the establishment of a health review, mentioned some elements from ELSTAT, from the OECD, from GRECO and from the European Commission and from the findings of committees of Greek, domestic and European. And he said that corruption in all areas of economic and political life in Greece is about 5% -7%, just twice the average in Southeast Europe. And while he mentioned supplies, equipment, he mentioned Olympic matches, he told us about economic transactions, he told us that on the issue of health, black money, miza, remula, rot and corruption he touches 24% of GDP. And we've stayed vigilant! We didn't think so. How is that possible? When the Committee of Inquiry was set up, it was found that from the 270 billion in the 2000-2014 period, about 24% was what SYRIZA's relevant health ministers mentioned here, Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Xanthos, namely, but also the President, then Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, who approached it around 24% to 270 billion. We said 80-85 billion was about black money in public and private health. 24% is about 65 billion. So when the examination, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the New Democracy, the first witnesses to come and be examined were your people. President of the SPS, Stavros Evangelatos. Who appointed him? The New Democracy in June 2015. I think you, Mr. Voridis. It was a huge personality technocratic, who had such knowledge, perception and experience in the health field. And what did he say? He told us that the figures mentioned in the House are small in relation to reality. And he mentioned something unrealistic, 4000% increase in radiopharmaceuticals in Greece in relation to European countries or Cyprus. A range of medications for the heart and orthopaedic 7000% increase in Greece. And now you're telling me it was SYRIZA's complaints. I will tell you who the Syrians were, patented, who have mentioned these things about health and corruption in this area. Mr. Floris forgot the concept of corruption. You never did it once. The words scandal and corruption were absent from the twenty-two minutes of your speech, Mr. Plori. They were missing out of sight. Stavros Evangelatos: "I must testify to you..." - three times! - "... that invoicing medicines is a political decision and not a doctor's decision." Mrs Antoniou, the president of the EOF, reiterated exactly the same. Mr Lindzeris, Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Venizelos' science friend, said three times that it was a political decision to invoke medicines. And that's where it became the big party, the overpriced of drugs, and not the overregistration of doctors, which, to be done, needs a temperate and healthy soil to develop the ability of the doctor to overwrite. After overpricing, i.e. invoicing, the terrain of overpricing, results in the vagina of artificial demand, the well-known polypharmaceuticals in Greece, since there is no home that does not have a locker full of drugs for every occasion. This was the ground, these were the conditions in which, unfortunately, the "NOVARTIS" scandal was developed between 2012 and 2015. And you don't want to deal with it honestly and with courage. We told you, 'Come together as a political system'. We did the treatment protocols. We made other decisions serious. Perhaps you too often under the pressure of the troikas. But how is it possible in the years of the crisis, while we have bankruptcy, depreciation, poverty, pain for the Greek society and the Greek citizen, just in the same period 2012-2015, is it incredible that the huge scandal, for which no one doubts in the inhabited, apart from you, is unbelievable? Mr Ploiris, you did not admit once that there is a scandal, despite the fact that your Chief three times publicly admitted that it is an international scandal, with great depth, with great scope and with many possible guilty parties. 'I don't take an oath...' - he said - 'Everyone is innocent.' He said it in public. Why, then, did we say that the examination was carried out? For the invoicing of drugs. Points and monsters in the health field. Points and monsters! I'll say some things. What can I report to you? The relentless Kremastios - who is not symbol - who came to the committee and testified to us that, "For ten years I had no sleep. I've been in pain for health care and health. I watched the curve flare in the sky and hurt and had lost my sleep." Should I tell you about your own man appointed Secretary-General of Public Administration, Mr. Leandro Rakinzis, where with three synonymous reports in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, does he say that corruption in health was in heaven and is the main factor, along with corruption in armaments, which led to the country's bankruptcy? You're not talking about this stuff. Can I tell you about Mr. Surla, your Secretary-General for Transparency of the Ministry of Justice? Your man. With a terrible report in 2013, he revealed signs and monsters of corruption, waste, rot and remulsion in the health field. And indeed, he revealed something terrible and terrible, but I never saw any prosecutor moving in that country. What did he say in his 2013 report? He said the criminal department of the US Ministry of Justice fined $350 million to pharmaceutical companies - regardless of the NOVARTIS case - because they corrupted state officials. He said it in 2013 in his report! And no judicial initiative was taken, no judicial action was seen. And he stayed in the void, in the air. I have said that tens of times from this step and all the committees. So why didn't justice investigate it? Why isn't he investigating it yet? Because there is not only a crime of infidelity. There are likely to be other offences, which have not been filed. Why can't we check? I'm saying this one more time. On this ground, therefore, the 'NOVARTIS scandal' was developed, which is currently being investigated in twenty-two countries, in 4/5 of the world. And within the twenty-two countries investigated, they are the largest countries in the world: Russia, the USA - primarily - China, India, Japan, South African Union, Brazil and eighteen other countries. In all this is a construction of the NOVARTIS scandal, as you want to argue and tell us. This is your project, this is your effort, to convince public opinion. The NOVARTIS scandal has an innumerable depth. That's what Mr. Angelis said. Even in 1/100, it wasn't even investigated. Your witness, Mrs Ryku, said 'the crown of scandals in our country'. Mr. Florie, please. You wanted to forbid her, but you couldn't. "The scandal crown," she said about her term of office in December 2016-April 2017, when she left with a statement of her, where she said absolutely nothing in her statement about all the things she said in retrospect. Therefore, overrated by a political decision, overwriting by doctors, multi-pharmaceuticals and artificial demand was the ground, the ground on which it was cultivated, developed, increased, became a huge domestic and international 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which if it does not agree the political system is a scandal, I fear that this huge public money leak will be repeated. Huge! If we look in the mirror, it looks like the whole political system. You're not saying that. I did not hear a proposal which you said, of course, in the pre-inquiry. Some of them were flying. I didn't hear anything from you today. What do you propose to the Greek Parliament not to repeat such sepsis, remulsion and corruption phenomena that humiliate the country inside, but also its international image is shattered by the Greek people? And it hurts so much! He has shed much blood and sweat to cover from his pocket and from his economy all these losses of public wealth. And you don't say anything! Cuveda! Anyway. We, Mr Plouris and Mr Buga, former Chairman of the committee, often with respect and aware of our role, told you what your sins were. What should I mention? The exception on the first day of Polakis and Janakopoulos on the request that you invite them to the future for witnesses? I want to reveal something very serious here. On the first day, Mr. Bougas and Mrs. Rapt, which was requested for the exception, was drafted with the views of SYRIZA and the case-law, which said that to exclude someone, it must already have been examined as a witness. Mr Bougas: 'For the deposit of this reason proposed by Mr Ploris...'. Mr. Ploris, the pre-inquiry center, came to ruin the team that Mr. Bougas directed. Looks like you didn't play good defense, Mr. Buga. Looks like the center Four has had better performance than your defense. So you said, on the first day, following our proposal and case-law in particular, ad hoc: "For the submission of this reason, the judicial persons must have witnessed the testimony already, without only the call, their proposal as witnesses in the future." Mrs. Raptia exactly the same thing. I have the minutes here in front of me. And the next day the President of the committee was fully drafted with Mr Plory's proposal. Something else happened outside the committee. It doesn't explain any differently. Something else happened. And so you all joined up and excluded two SYRIZA top executives from the committee. What did you actually do? You have intervened unauthorizedly, unparliamentary, illegally and unethically in the possibility that the leader of a party should only determine his group in committee. Do you disagree, Mr. Loverdo, as a constitutionalist? If you do, tell us. Is that an intervention or not, Mr. Voridis? If that is the case, then the right of each party's leader to form the group that will be involved in each parliamentary committee should be heresy and should probably be dependent on a majority decision that considers that, "No, Mr Tsipras, you do not have the absolute right to define and form your group." And, indeed, the top two SYRIZA executives! You didn't want them because you had planned what you'd do all the time. So I'll tell you what you've done all the time. And I won't speak legally, but politically. The first move was to exclude Janakopoulos and Polakis. The second move was to reject Mr Ploris' request to exclude Mr Ploiros, because it was Mr Papagelopoulos's request. Before another request for an exception had been rejected, Mrs Rapti, for the same reasons that you ruled out Paulakis and Janakopoulos. In fact, there have been signs and monsters at the procedural level for the exception of Mr Ploiros. At 1.30' at noon, you invite the rapporteur and the SYRIZA team to meet at 2 o'clock at noon, to make a decision at 2.15' and to reject the request for an exception when the Rules of Procedure provide for three days, at least after the request for an exception and exceptionally, in urgent circumstances, for a two-day period. And in half an hour you have gathered us from the committees, called the committee, made the decision and rejected Mr Papagelopoulos' request. I'm not saying, you actually had the right to make any decision you want. But such a violation in cold blood of Parliament's Rules of Procedure? In fact, Mr. Buga at the closing of the committee said that he was proud of the work of the committee, because he respected both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House and the ethics, especially the basic doctrine of legal science audi alteram party, "heared to the other side", which you did not listen to, but we fought it with rabies and vengeance. And I'll tell you right away what you did. After the exception of Polakis and Janakopoulos, what did you do? It is time to discuss the issue of protected witnesses. With rabies you've fought them from the first moment, and they and the prosecutors of corruption. There is no other country in Europe except Poland, Romania and - I think - Hungary, which has not been prosecuted by a prosecutor. It is the first time in this country since 1832 - with the exception of an unfavourable transfer of Sargetakis from the junta - from the Tertsetis and Polyzoidis case, which is being prosecuted by the prosecutor. It's the first time! By who? After suing the persecutors, the ones he controlled and persecuted. It is for the first time and it will stigmatize the whole political system indelibly. But the responsibility is intact with you. I'm going to talk about sugar later. They are completely contradictory and curious, at least from a legal point of view. Can I tell you something, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Two years ago the Romanian Corruption Prosecutor, Laura Kovesi, was persecuted unrelentingly, unrelentingly and constantly from the Romanian regime. They went against her as the prosecutor of corruption in Romania. She was convicted of all the courts in her country. He went to the European Court of Justice and was vindicated. Today, Laura Kovesi has taken the position of the European Prosecutor and a month ago she gave an interview with the Euronews and predicted that in other states in the European Union we will have prosecutions of prosecutors. Which states did it mean which public prosecutors? All that happened is the one with Mrs. Tulupaki. What did he know? What did he know? Somebody answer us. Let's go to the rest of the cancellations, because for you there's no scandal. And how are you going to say it's a scandal, because there's no corruption in Greece? You're the only ones who say it. I don't know if you read it. I think only Mr. Voridis has read it. It is a beautiful writing in Diopoulos, describing corruption in capital letters, where Vangelis Venizelos has a foreword. You know what he's saying? "Corruption from Migration then eats like a sarcasm for public wealth, society and the pocket of citizens." As a flesh it consumes the flesh of the Greek state and of the Greek society. This is what he says in this foreword and says that corruption has now spread into all the manifestations of the country's political, social and economic life. You come here as a government and as rapporteur for the majority, and you do not say a word. So, the big issues that concern you about what they are? I am troubled because, at the time that states in the south, such as Portugal, which was the day before its Parliament unanimously decided to abolish, get rid of the monoculture of tourism and re-industrialize the country on the big issues of the economy to save spaces and peoples, here you have turned the country into a country of the cassette and the crowns. That's what you deserve, that's what you deserve, so that's why you're capable. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go further. Why do you want the details of the name of the protected witnesses revealed? Why did you want to give a signal to the mafias of the world that now the protected witnesses are not in the unavoidable, easily out of the hood. That's what you wanted to say to celebrate the mobsters in the world, that it's not something serious, slowly the institution, slowly the chandelier oil! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The guarded witnesses today are imprisoned in many countries. From what regimes? Let's leave them better, you know what regimes! We are ashamed that the country, Greece, is the third country today, which will be 100% controlled by the European Court of Human Rights for the prosecution of prosecutors. You have done so with rabies and vengeance against three factors since the first day. Since the first day that the "NOVARTIS" scandal has escaped, you have exercised a terrible heartbroken and persecuting feeling unbelievable to witnesses of the public interest and public prosecutors. Tell me what European country this public despair would be, defiance, insults, threats, prosecutions, prosecutions, actions against prosecutors investigating a case. Because for them, it is a serious case, but it is a case and they have as a torment to guide them a Code of Criminal Procedure and an ethics. You did it and now you're coming back and tell me we're right. Do you know why? Because there will be a prosecution against Ms. Tulupaki. It had been announced, Mr. Voridis. Unfortunately, you have announced it, and that cannot be hidden. Simple as that! Anyway, what are you telling us? That the NOVARTIS scandal was one thing SYRIZA built. When did it start? It started in America since the summer of 2013, where the first investigations took place. It is accidental that this scandal has begun, as has the 'SIEMENS' scandal that was tried after nineteen and a half years in the country, which does not honour the political system. I will say that it is also a sadness for the judicial system, because it is not acceptable for the legal community at least, the two biggest scandals of the last fifty years to begin with actions, initiatives and actions by foreign administrations, 'SIEMENS', 'NOVARTIS', USA and a little Germany. As I said, Germany, I remember Munich's decision, which is the most insulting foreign public text that despised the country unrelentingly and unrelentingly saying that 'it has been financing you for years - the two major parties - the 'SIEMENS'. It's a court ruling that will stay in history and be a black spot for all of us. That should make us think about a lot of things and you didn't. I heard the closure, Mr. Pleari's epilogue. Despair, disrespect, insult, that's what you did! Let's go see now, is this a scandal after all? I will tell Mr Buga - and I will close - two more cancellations that the committee has made. You did not manage, Mr. Buga, to reveal the details of the name, because the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena made a standstill, otherwise you would have called them face to face, as you said, you would have taken them out the anonymity and protection they have from the law, a law that you themselves passed in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u19	The void where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u20	You don't respect your political child. You do not respect your own legislative and political child and you want to break it coldly. Fortunately, the Marios Ice told you: "Have well, children, there are limits, there are also red lines". You backed up, and that's the first slap. Let's go to the second, the Scientific Council of Parliament has told you that it has cancelled the examination of witnesses other than the question of Parliament's mandate, which is the Advocate General. The House shall be the prosecutor and the committee shall only have the competence of a Advocate-General when it exercises a preliminary investigation. And you were looking at witnesses outside the theme! Athanasios, Cyvelo, Tsatani, is here. 'Don't ask me about 'NOVARTIS', I have no idea'. This was based on the first indictment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Lappa, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I shall conclude. That's where your statements were based! A mess and a fiasco, at least legally. I come, Mr President, and close at a bad time for justice in our country. I'm talking to the lawyers now. The law in Greece, the criminal proceedings, stipulate that the prosecution is always done by a single body called the prosecutor. Why did we have two prosecutors equal and equal in the investigation of prosecutors? Perhaps to balance out some bad development and some bad moment, did one of the two runaways or swamps? I'm saying maybe! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And not only that, the first to issue his finding is Sofulakis in a text that is amazing, three hundred pages, where he leaves no line, but the messengers' line not to deal with any arguments and references to the case-law and the theory of legal science. And while on 7 July Mr Zecharis asked for an archiving, the following day, with a sixty-page text, he asked for the persecution that actually took the form of the withdrawal of the day before. When did he get to see them, anyway? In any case, listen now and I close it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u23	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u24	I would like to table a document on Mrs Ryku. On December 29, 2016, there was a document that Mr Angelis brought to us. I have the practical questions for Mrs Ryuku. Ten times I ask her, "Your term came a document from the FBI, where did it refer to the responsibilities of political persons?". And it responds ten times 'no, never'. And here comes Mr. Angel and reveals the FBI document, which is catapult and vice versa. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u25	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Lappa. You have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u26	I say that simply to understand what the prosecutors were saying in committee. In conclusion, since you said that there is no scandal, there is nothing about "NOVARTIS" and no corruption, "NOVARTIS" comes and confesss to the compromise with America everything you said for three years is false, complaints and slanders of SYRIZA, everything! Something so contemptuous I've never seen in my life as a lawyer confessing everything! And what does he say in his introduction? I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u27	Don't open any more topics, Mr. Lappa. You've reached twenty-four minutes. Please finish. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I don't want any advice, ladies and gentlemen. There's a procedure. Mr. Lappa, please close, because the procedure cannot be checked otherwise. Please warmly be this last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u28	The first category, then, of the New Jersey decision. ‘NOVARTIS strains 1 and 2, together with others, deliberately and intentionally united their forces, conspired, collaborated and agreed with them to commit an offence against the United States in accordance with the corruption law, etc. Alpha, beta, gamma, delta, to convince that foreign official to use his influence before a foreign government. Which government? ‘NOVARTIS HELLAS’. The Greek. What's he gonna do? Its institutions - meaning this government and its services - serve in the context of corruption the interests of NOVARTIS. This is the decision and you are telling the committee today at the moment, legally speaking, and I am closing down, Mr President, that in this new Jersey decision we are making a different translation approach. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Yes, sir. That's great! You're making a different translation approach. Not even a junior district of the last village in Greece! That's what the decision says, and it's officially translated from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Shutting down...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u29	You're closed, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u30	If you want to turn the country into a climate of zombies and into a 'brows' and a country that is at democracy and justice next to Romania and Poland, your decision. But if you do not take into account the history and passion and desire of the Greek people to live with democracy, you will be paying for it sometime anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Bougas has asked for the floor on staff. Mr Buga, you have the floor for a minute to explain what the staff lies. I assume, not only in your name's mention, which, at the speed with which Mr Lappas speaks many times, someone understood 'Bouras' instead of 'Bouras'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, if it were just the speed and confusion of the SYRIZA Members, I would forgive them and understand it. The staff, however, are involved in the fact that Mr Lappas always insists deliberately to distort what I said to the committee on the first day of the meeting on the exception. I shall immediately explain, Mr President, to show what distortion is and, as I have said, consciousness and continuity. On the first day of the matter, therefore, the views on the exemption were set out. As chairman of the committee, as I had to do, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u33	As the honourable Members have heard, we should also allow Mr Bougas to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the role of SYRIZA Members in the committee should be kept quiet. The first day, therefore, as President, I had to report and inform the Members of the committee that, in addition to the opinions on the exception, there were opposing views. In fact, what Mr Lappas read was from a Manual of Criminal Procedures, which I read and mentioned and is recorded in the Minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I have done so in order to give full information to the Members who have participated, before taking a decision on such an important issue, on both sides of the House, so that, in view of all the opinions, they can decide in the voice of their conscience. Indeed, because of my speech on that day, the matter was postponed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u35	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, that is not what my colleague is doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u37	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u38	Shame on you! Dismissed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Marku, in your place, and don't threaten.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u40	Dismissed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u41	Please, Mr. Marcus, sit down. Mr. Pappa, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u42	Dismissed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u43	It's a disgrace! Dismissed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u44	Go outside, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u45	Whenever I want to go out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, it's political atrocity! The Ethics Committee will intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u47	Dismissed! What went through here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u48	Please! If anyone wants to take the floor and talk to me. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It's a disgrace, of course, I saw him move on making a signal. Inadmissible!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u49	Dismissed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u50	Dismissed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u51	Dismissed! He should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Marcus, come out and no more provoke. I saw you. I'm sorry for your conduct! Convicted! This is a university professor's act! Please leave the Chamber. Please leave the Chamber, Mr. Marcus. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Calm down! Mr. Marcus, please get out of the Chamber. That is the mandate of the Bureau and you must obey it. Get out of the Chamber because I saw you. Shame, shame, shame! We're continuing the process after Mr. Marcus comes out. Mr. Marcus, get out. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We adjourn the sitting for a few minutes to take place with the Bureau's decision and Mr Marcos to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I will not go into the incident, which I myself have seen, because it does not honor Mr Marcos. By decision of the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Marcos is excluded from today's sitting for inappropriate behaviour and has the right - it is also Rules 80 and 89, but on the basis of 81 - to take part only in the vote. The Ethics Committee will be informed about this, and from now on there will be all the procedures. I now give the floor - which he did not take before - to explain the staff to Mr Buga. Here, Mr Buga, you have the floor for two minutes to explain what you said to you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I will not repeat what I have said. However, I would like to say that my speech was made, on that day, in order to explain to my fellow Members who participated in the committee that, apart from the view which supported the exception, there can be another view. This intervention has led me to postpone the sitting for a few days later, to find the opinion, the ad hoc opinion of the Scientific Council of Parliament, and finally to end up by a overwhelming majority in the block exemption decision, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. Also, Mr President, the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Lappas, has remained behind because he constantly recalls the objections he has raised. But he did not see to it that he read the answer to the objections. If, Mr Lappa, you are trying to look at the finding on pages 53 to 67, you will find that all objections you and Mr Papagelopoulos have been answered thoroughly and on legal grounds. It is not right what you are doing, remember each time the wording of the objections and do not mention the answer. One last thing, Mr President. If for something the function of not the committee, but of the SYRIZA MPs, will be their complete match with the audited, Mr. Papagelopoulos. Mr. Lappa, you spoke twenty-three minutes. The name Papagelopoulos didn't mention it once! But you should know that history will write that in the committee by MPs you have turned into his lawyers, and that does not honor you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u55	I invite Mr. Kegeroglu to Stepma from the Change Movement for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the determination and effectiveness of our country towards the growing Turkish aggression is given. All of us need always to assist the effort of national understanding and, of course, to strengthen and exploit our country's position as a diplomatic solution to all issues and, of course, to strengthen dissuasive power. After this comment I would like to remind you that the National Representation today is called upon to decide, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, whether or not the former Deputy Minister of Justice of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, having regard, of course, to the conclusion of the preliminary committee, the opinions submitted and, of course, as far as I am concerned, I shall be recommending that all the material, witness statements and incoming documents be taken into account. I am succeeding in the Step two excellent lawyers who tried in their speech to formulate the positions of their parties. I was surprised, of course, that Mr Lappa's speech, which really did not speak today in defence of Mr Papagelopoulos, contrary to what he had developed in committee, and focused on the point of order. But what surprised me most was the development of the political indictment against SYRIZA, which concerns the cover-up of the big scandal in the drug. I was sincerely surprised, and I take this as a last resort to divert interest and debate from the matter being discussed and go elsewhere. But that is also within our political accusation, because there is such a thing, apart from what we are discussing. The question raised and still raised - Mr Lappas raised it today - in the case of NOVARTIS is the fact that it is a scandal or a service. We've said from the outset that this is a fake felony. Our paradox, according to the evidence and the facts, has been placed and said clearly: It is scandal and construction. It is scandalous and many of the total scandal in the drug that launched the total public pharmacy expenditure from around 3 billion in 2003 to 6.4 billion in 2009 due to derailment policies and government omissions, the corresponding period, to exercise control and effective drug policy, which left the field open to unfair and illegal practices of all companies and "NOVARTIS" including, in particular, the involvement of health professionals. However, it evolved in construction, a device that was extinguished at the expense of ten political persons, while covering the real scandal of the drug and the "NOVARTIS" and it proved that there was a derogatory circuit that was reconstructed, operated and operated since 2015, a ceremonial circuit continuously renewed during SYRIZA - ANEL governance to complete the cover-up and construction of the construction and other dark purposes. The Change Movement, therefore, has a clear position, but SYRIZA and New Democracy hide the truth or say half, for their obvious political reasons. One speaks only of a scandal, which even distorts through its construction to deliver it to politicians, and the other speaks only of a construction, but both agree and conceal the cover-up of the responsibilities for derailing the pharmaceutical expenditure and the burden of the Greek people amounting to further 17 billion, only for the period 2004-2009. He said today, Mr. Lappas, a total of 64 billion for health. And where's the Commission's conclusion? You have completely covered this scandal, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and as we denounced in time this cover has resulted in the country losing the opportunity to receive financial compensation from the unfair and illegal practices of pharmaceuticals, in this case ‘NOVARTIS’. But let us start from the start because this case has roots, tails, and it is not an autonomous episode. As I have emphasized yet again, Greece and the Greeks who were visioned, strived and achieved progress in post-civilisation, and especially after 1981, were forced to experience a ten-year crisis at a huge social cost, a crisis caused by the economic derailment policies 2004-2009 of the Karamanlis government and the procrastination for the necessary reforms after accession, in particular, in the Eurozone, which Greece had achieved with a PASOK government, a crisis that was extended and exacerbated by populists and the so-called 'anti-immemorial block' that reacted rabies since 2010 and then to the changes, reforms and sustainable solutions that promoted the PASOK to address the causes of the crisis. These are the political forces with a core of SYRIZA who claimed that the junta didn't fall in '73. They are those political forces with a core of SYRIZA and Chief of Staff of Mr. Tsipras who characterised the country's elected Prime Minister George Papandreou as Pinochet. They are the leaders of Mr. Tsipras who, at the same time, tampered with the people, in good cooperation with certain great interests that have done their job, that they allegedly possessed the magic solution with an article and a law. The partnership of the so-called anti-immemorial forces, with a heirly political payment from right to left, as well as of conglomerates in the concept of managing power and insulation of institutions, mainly aimed at targeting PASOK as an opponent in order to be politically fruited. This partnership was not terminated, of course, with victory in the elections in January 2015. He continued in the form of a SYRIZA-ANEL government format. The Memorandum of Understanding soon proved to be the memorandum of the Memorandum with the third unnecessarily and most prejudicial to society. More quickly, however, they set before the establishment of a system of power that, apart from its prestige and reproduction, attempted to install the regime that is reflected in the revelations - and these days - on how government officials acted, even in cases of destruction or even death. At the same time, Mr Tsipras, with this system, has contracted to disguise responsibility for economic derailment policies, in exchange, obviously, for their assistance and government partnership. Mr Lappa's confession today which argued that it was 64 billion dollars the total scandal in health, but they covered it, is truly unprecedented and has to be recorded, because it is a trick for them. Nor was there any thought to investigate the causes of derailment, and obviously not a word about the damage the coup d'état itself caused in the first half of 2015. All focused on serving party purposes and pursuits, to the detriment of political opponents. The implementation of the political project of the SYRIZA-ANEL leader group had as a key pillar the multi-faceted outlaw that was structured, organised and acted in the field of justice completely uninstitutionally. Based on the perception of Rasputin School that existed and exploiting the special relationships that had been established in previous years in the field of justice, with recruitment and new people, it has evolved into a gang-like criminal organisation, under the law. The central person is known for many cases of the past, most characteristic of Mayo's case. Do you remember her, gentlemen of SYRIZA and gentlemen of the New Democracy? As commander of the EEAA to the Government of Karamanlis. Do you remember her, gentlemen of SYRIZA and gentlemen of the New Democracy? He was then the golden transcription from the right, of course with a promise - as they say in football - to the SYRIZA that had a deficit in this field. It is characteristic that, following his position as Deputy Minister of Justice by Mr. Tsipras, they were the two who had not changed their place during the entire term of office, until of course the people decided otherwise for both, when they had become the best sponsors of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the task of the preliminary committee was to seek and highlight the truth and, depending on the outcome, to promote the procedures envisaged. Those of us who participated in this committee have had a sacred obligation and, at the same time, an honour for the institutions and citizens to act in a capacity, apart from the prosecutor's, and that of the representative elected by the people and under no circumstances by the party. The Members from the Change Movement have fulfilled this obligation in full. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to get to the realities, and unfortunately, for the democracy of the institutions, detestable incidents. The methodology followed in the September 2015 elections with the involvement of a press share, with assisted publications and fantastic scenarios, was the key model for the way the judiciary operates, headed by the Deputy Minister. According to statements from different witnesses and evidence revealed daily, slanders and scripts were channelled to the press, even twisted assumptions. Later, with her being prosecuted today, she was building evidence against innocent people. They distorted concepts very easily. The prosecutor presented him as a beneficiary, health professionals as political persons. Of course, it wasn't just a lie. They were taking and exuding this position with facts, but they were distorting. The grey propaganda precisely has this element: facts perpetuated by distortion and lie in order to achieve its purpose. Finally, they once persecuted and sometimes blackmailed, depending on what the purpose was; if they were political or other and economic - it proved to be. All of this was different parts of the same puzzle of uncovered, enthusiastic anti-institutional businesses riding justice and broader democratic institutions. A front of this group's criminal activity was undoubtedly the 'NOVARTIS' case. The pseudonym of false, general and unproven values, according to the law, deposits of three witnesses under the protection of anonymity, were considered sufficient by the prosecutor of corruption to target ten leading personalities of the rivals in terms of SYRIZA and proceeded to it, having backs and direction. The famous statement by the Deputy Minister outside the Maximos Mansion about "the greatest scandal from a recommendation of the modern Greek state" is not easily forgotten and, of course, marks political destiny from the first moment. It was the flag. Nor is it forgotten that the phrase at the SYRIZA Central Committee meeting "We are not going to take elections unless we put a prisoner in prison". It was the signal. All the activities revealed by the deposits and documents followed, the facts and everything revealed. For two and a half years they pharmaceuticaled the country’s political life, leaving the real scandal in the field of health unexploited and unpunished. They accepted it today. A researched Deputy Minister and a prosecutor of corruption preferred and consciously chose not to engage in the scandal and to devote the time and powers given to them by their position to smuggle political prices and personal reputations instead of looking for the real guilty. It is characteristic that the witness in the preliminary committee said: "While the scandal was being investigated, the scandal investigation was interrupted, because Mr. Papaggiopoulou decided to turn the scandal into a service." That is what Mrs Ryku has said, which was obviously targeted by the system. When? When he refused to be part of it. Of the 118 million - which is only one of the elements - deposited in four thousand personal accounts - six thousand transfers - the deposit of 1,000 euros was examined and made public in the name of her doctor husband. That's the research that's been done. However, Immediate evidence has also been provided by Mr Angelis, whom I am referring to, because the designation 'for the sake of justice' given to him by the same persons, they have then tried to deceive him and to present him as a disturbed personality. This, among other things, is a great deal of misery. It is also true that despite the fact that ten political persons were allegedly quoted as evidence, the official documents of the non-judicial compromise of "NOVARTIS" with the US State show that no political person is mentioned. On the contrary, it appears that the evidence concerned only the involvement of natural persons working in the health field, which is why compensation was also possible. That is why the attempt to paraphrase and distort translation is of particular value because it was made by the person involved in this whole case. That is why the documents we have asked for from the prosecutor for corruption have not been delivered and it is also your responsibility, Mr President of the committee. We asked for the prosecution of corruption to come to the US authorities, because of their content and the reference to names it appears because in responses to their preamble to the transfer, specific names are mentioned, and then there is nothing to do with the content, because they were asked by the prosecutor for these names, which is why they replied that they had nothing, but they gave us the evidence to look at the case more generally. It's the ultimate connection that will prove once these documents are released. After all, the alleged evidence proved to be what had been the feature of the answers as a result of the examination of the witnesses. "I heard, I didn't see him, but he can't, somehow that's how it's gonna happen. That's the way it's always been. I don't know. That's how they told me and I testified." These are the characteristic expressions and, of course, also to satisfy their protectors, who have put them in the protected witness's procedure, they say 'I do not recall what I said', but they are not what you have translated, Madam Advocate General. It's more. But, with these constructed elements, people were soaked, families were smashed, children were ashamed of their parents, but from now on others must be ashamed. These others have the courage to speak even today. It is considered to be the end of the episode, but it is a characteristic of this behavior. It may not be the whole of the parliamentary group, but it concerns many of them. From now on they have no right to the convenience of delusion. When they ask us in PASOK what we've done for the health field, we have answers. It's real and numbers. We fought the waste and corruption, and we packed up the broken times that you covered up. We reduced public pharmaceutical expenditure from 6.4 billion to 2.5 billion a year with the continuity of the co-operation government. The facts say that at PASOK and Minister of Health, Andreas Loverdos, we created the EEA, we consolidated the policies, we introduced e-prescription, therapeutic protocols, the active substance. We applied the positive list of medicines at the entry cost for companies. We reduced VAT on medicines, we reduced wholesale profit. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] All this, as I've said before, didn't happen inappropriate. They were in conflict with the pharmaceuticals, in conflict with the multinationals, and this was manifested through the pivotal and paid publications. From now on, the citizens will ask you, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, what you have done with the medicine and on the basis of what Mr Lappas has admitted. I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. First question: why did Greece and the PASOK government fight for the household of waste, the fight against theft and the reduction of pharmaceutical expenditure, take the part of the pharmaceutical industries and the multinationals? Even in 2013, here in Parliament you voted against a specific amendment to reduce prices following a meeting and cooperation with the pharmaceuticals and their representatives. The laws of industrialists have turned them into people's fairs. You are indestructible in distortion and propaganda. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second question: why in 2015, you did not re-evaluate the reduction of medicines by violating the law and, furthermore, why you were tempting the limitation of this breach of duty by Mr Kurublis, performed by the prosecutor of corruption he forwarded - listen to - the report by the Members of the Change Movement in Parliament after...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u57	Please complete, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u58	I need some time, Mr President. After a year inhabited in another litigation with the original P.C. and not by the name Panagiotis Kourublis? Thirdly, why did you legislate just before the 2019 elections, the price base instead of the European Union's average price for eurozone prices leading to higher prices? Fourth question: The Gilenya medicine, on which you supported an entire indictment, why didn't you take it off the list when you became a government, after you claimed that he was wrongly invaded? Why didn't you lower his price since you claimed it was expensive? How did it happen - a miracle? - and from twenty million cigarettes in 2014 was launched in your years of over sixty and seventy? The fifth question, however, today is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u59	In the fifth, close, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u60	... because you refuse to shed plenty of light, to judge justice the case, to rule on the innocent and the guilty for the price they pay them. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you must vote yes in the court proceedings after the work of the House has been completed. If you vote not or if you leave, it is obvious that you prefer that serious accusations should be suspended. The innocent, those who really believe that they are innocent, as Andrew Loverdos did, say reluctantly: "I ask that my immunity be lifted, I ask to be judged by justice to prove my innocence. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] If you vote no, then you are the first to accept guilt by entering into an impediment - as you think - so that justice is not done. We don't have any delusions. The perception of the SYRIZA-ANEL format, which now owns the leading group of SYRIZA, has forced you today to function on the basis of its feasibility and not on the basis of your public interest and conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish. Last sentence. Warm request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude in thirty seconds, Mr President. Only, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in republics such as our country, governments are neither shops nor ticks of anyone, and this must also be borne in mind by the current government and every government elected, but it does not have a white cheque for opaque functions or for the establishment of the paramilitary and illegal systems that are in democracys sooner or later revealed and judged. That is precisely why we are being called upon to vote today. Today we are not judging anyone. Nowadays, we don't publish anyone. Mostly, however, we are not protecting anyone today. Today we are deciding, with our vote, to send a clear and resounding message to those in charge of the institutions, to those who are illegal about the prerogative of power and the same benefits. Today we are all giving the floor to justice and, indeed, only to justice, without the presence of Members of Parliament with furs. Do they remind you of anything left as symbols of your first and unjust cooperation with the Right and the establishment of the persecution of Andreas Papandreou? It is now a reality - and I close with it - that in all cases from the 'broken' '89 to the recent political process, the so-called left of SYRIZA is taking the lead in one form or another.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. There are some data to which no question arises. Data First: Was There a NoVARTIS scandal? Of course, there has been no question of a 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which is why it has been the way it has been done - the out-of-court compromise of 'NOVARTIS' with the United States of America. And what's that scandal? It is the practice that all the pharmaceutical industries, its multinationals around the world, will have, that is to say, how they will affect states, governments and health workers to gain an increasing share of the market. On the basis of this scandal and its investigation, it is nothing but trade war and competition games, the hunting of profits. If what is being investigated and what we call the NOVARTIS scandal has a value, in today's advancement, when we see the war before us - in fact - which has been evacuated between the various research centres on what the CIVID virus vaccine will be first built -19, which we see here, we read signs and monsters, literally. And all of this is not about their agony to build the vaccine to save mankind, but about who will build it first to be able to gain intactly, taking advantage of the human pain and health of the world. Even hackers complaints have been made, trying to intercept the secrets and course of the investigations. This is why the trade war has also been the background to the persecution of "NOVARTIS" in the United States of America and not the scandal. The United States Government and the State of the United States were not interested in confronting and clarifying the scandal. What he wanted is exactly how he would block the moment that NOVARTIS had taken, so that American multinationals could benefit, and that is why not only did he not investigate it but also proceeded with the extrajudicial compromise, in return only for compensation. Secondly, what is the substance of the scandal, the cause of the scandal? The cause of the scandal is the commercialisation of health and medicine and not only on the part of public spending, but also on the part of private expenditure. Because what concerns the pharmaceutical industry is the total cost. This total expenditure is also the element that ensures their profitability. Just this game of competition, this game of interests between the multinationals and the pharmaceutical industries is made by arbitrators, the urban state and their governments with the various decisions, which play a decisive role and for which medicines will be included in the list of prescriptions or non-prescribed medicines and which medicines will be licensed in relation to other medicines similar, but also at which price they will be costed. From this point of view, the state and governments have important tools in their hands. One, then, is the list of prescriptions, second is when you get a marketing authorisation and third is what value will be fixed. Who's running these tools? It manages the urban state and its governments with pluralism, with the parallel contradictory amendments, with the complexity of the mathematical formula, which applies to the determination of the basis for calculating the price of the medicinal product and, of course, is very important and which countries are taken as a basis for calculating the price of the medicinal product by means of the mathematical formula. From this point of view, it is clear that the whole environment that has been formed is an environment that allows for arbitrary and subjective crises. For this very reason and all the interventions in the invoicing of the medicinal product are aimed solely at supporting the interests of business groups. In this process, the role of so-called experts, who are called health professionals from various health scientists, who are directly linked to the pharmaceutical industries and are at the same time being forged as specialists from the various health ministers. After all, as it emerged from the work of the Committee of Inquiry itself, they are often the authors of provisions relating to the pricing of the medicinal product themselves. So, on the basis of this scandal, it is nothing but the nature of the urban state itself as guardian of the interests of capital. The bourgeois state is the thermostat of scandals and interdependence. The coexistence of political power with the interests of business groups is on the basis of the scandals of rot and corruption. This is precisely the source of their reproduction. Thirdly, which does not have any question, is that this scandal has been exploited both by New Democracy and by SYRIZA and by KINAL, but not for its investigation. They didn't care. None of these three parties were interested in investigating the scandal, but what they were interested in is how to cover up the scandal, but at the same time also through it, to go further than the disorientation of the world, presenting it, whether as a serpent or as a mechanism for prosecuting political persons. Of course, this scandal has attempted to take advantage of the resumption of the political scene, but also of the redeployment of its political staff. This is precisely the conclusion reached by the work of both pre-review committees. The first pre-review committee to remind SYRIZA government, on the pretext of its alleged competence, refused - and we stress it - to investigate the scandal, i.e. simply Greek hooded it, so that we could be clear in our assessments. So it is hypocritical what the SYRIZA speaker, Mr Lappas, said a moment ago about the scandal, about the areas he has, because these are air words, when in practice they did not do anything at all. In this respect he should put his pain and sorrow aside for the pain of the Greek people, because it is nothing but hypocrisy. It was this pursuit, not to explore the scandal, that was to attract both SYRIZA and New Democracy and KINAL, because it was the climate of disorientation. It was also the aim of the current pre-review committee on the initiative of the New Democracy. And the question is: why is this common attitude from all three of the New Democracy and from SYRIZA and KINAL? Has no one even been interested in considering any aspects of this? Why this common position, when they at the same time shine the hard fight and the controversy? Why are they trying, using the well-known disorientated "dogs", to cover up the boulder that emerges from the "takes", which they have as governments with big businessmen and which these "takes, give" all the governments, toys which are even involved with geopolitical competitions, such as the interest of the Prime Minister of Israel himself, Mr Netanyahu, in the Minonis case and the intervention that Mr Netanyahu made to the government of SYRIZA? That's one of the unwritten literally. But, above all, to cover the most appalling truth, that with their policy, a policy that supports the interests of the pharmaceutical industries, the speculation of the pharmaceutical industries will continue unnecessarily to the detriment of the health of the people. This is precisely why there is this matching of the pursuits of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL for not investigating the scandal. This is why, on the part of the New Democracy and also of KINAL, the widening of the charge against Papagelopoulos, which, as we have seen, would lead to the cover-up of the case, but also the responsibilities of all governments for the scourge, corruption and the conflict, as well as the interventions made by all governments in justice, thus bringing together both sides, seemingly opposing camps, because it would create new aspects of dead ends, conflicts and divisions. The JRC, from the very beginning, has been involved in the pre-review committees without any illusion as to where things will be progressed. We sought through this attitude to enlighten aspects of the scandal, but in this very pursuit we met a wall which was unaccompanied, which was created by the other forces, with the help of the judiciary. The key points of this attempt to block the research work of the pre-examination committees and the last pre-examination committee were firstly the fact that the notion of the committee as a whole of the case-file in the name of that some of the documents were confidential, and indeed were documents that came from the United States of America, documents which - o of the miracle - came from informal meetings and informal procedures and not through judicial assistance, documents that came selectively through meetings held in hotels, bars and cafes, representatives of the judiciary with FBI agents. And from this point of view, this intervention by the American factor and its acceptance on the part of the judiciary raises questions. Much more than the American embassy is involved in Athens itself. After all, these facts do nothing but confirm the fact that the American factor was not interested in investigating the scandal, but that through it it it sought to serve its own interests, the interests of its own multinationals in the war for an increasing market share and the loots. The second element was precisely the attitude shown by all parties, regardless of declarations, of so-called protected witnesses. The first time we saw ourselves placed in the position that, in order to be able to investigate the case, the masks must fall and everyone must be placed and investigated with their physical presence and their facts. After all, this view of principle towards the protected witnesses and the very attitude we used in the Golden Dawn trial, where we refused to examine the protected witnesses when testifying against the Golden Dawn. We did exactly the same now. The fact is that the credibility of the hooded witnesses cannot be seen when they retain the status of anonymity. Whether those who testify are based or are not able to investigate, whether what they say is reliable or is not you can't investigate, whether there are selfish interests you can't investigate. And it seems in fact that there were selfish interests. Because if it is correct that the prosecutor's assessment of corruption is likely to be the same as those who went to the United States, then the pit that fell from the United States is too much, because there the protected witnesses are funded on the basis of and the results of judicial investigations. They take their "baxis". So they have an interest in and have selfishness, which is forbidden in our legal order of things, even in this obscure law on protected witnesses. Of course, from this point on until we say, as Mr Lappas has done, that the action of the protected witnesses is facing the mafia, that the protected witnesses are a key tool for ensuring transparency and democracy and democratic developments, there is a huge distance. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] And with this assessment made by the SYRIZA spokesman, it is clear that they will then fall into a dangerous catapult and we will tell you very clearly. Why, as you said, Mr Lappa, the political and legislative child of the New Democracy and PASOK, then you had denounced it, the Left and Progress Coalition, and you had denounced it to the detriment of individual rights and collective rights. And today you are not only going to adopt it, but also to support it. And here comes the question: why this change? We would very much like you to give us a real answer. Through these procedures of the pre-review committee, too, a great many questions have been raised. From the statements of the highest court representatives themselves, a lot of questions have been raised about the handling of court officers, who are investigating all these cases of an economic nature involving business groups or having a more general political interest. All these manipulations are marked by the influence of the governments concerned, since each time the governments are involved, they are time-consuming. And, of course, the main lever of these government interventions in the judiciary is precisely the definition of the leadership of justice by the government, a practice that the JRC has denounced and called for this regime to be changed to the recent constitutional review, which SYRIZA refused as a majority at the time, and the New Democracy and the Change Movement. Furthermore, the work of the committee has once again shown the need for the full abolition of Article 86 of the Constitution, namely the law on criminal liability of the ministers, because it is not possible to investigate in a parliamentary committee with inquiries, but also to prosecute the ministers for possible offences, to subject the respective political and parliamentary relationships of power to what this entails. This position expressed by the JRC for the definitive and complete abolition of the Law on Responsibility of Ministers and the removal of the House from these cases, so that the ministers like all citizens can be treated, the JRC defended it and even proposed it in its recent constitutional review by abolishing Article 86. But, of the miracle, the same partners, even though they are fighting, New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL rejected this proposal because they obviously want to maintain the relevant article that favours their political games. Mr President, it is clear that the JRC, in its attitude and in the present procedure, will not legalise these procedures. [[At this point the President-in-Office takes over the President of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS]] That is why we are saying this right from the outset that we will not be taking part in this vote which will take place at the end of the meeting and we will do everything in our power as a Communist Party of Greece to inform the people of the facts, we will continue to fight against the trade in health and to eliminate the causes of these scandals, namely the elimination of the capitalist system itself. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too, for the impressively fair maintenance of your time. The former Prime Minister, SYRIZA's President, Alexis Tsipras, has asked for the floor for a brief speech. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government majority decided today to hold the debate on the referral by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papagelopoulos, as if it were any Wednesday, as if it were a Wednesday of the summer Rascal of July. And yet it's not any Wednesday. Since noon the entire Turkish fleet in the south-eastern Aegean has emerged, over forty Turkish warships are located south of Rhodes and west of Kastelorizos, obviously to try to support the investigations of the Turkish 'ORUC REIS' which have been announced with the Turkish side NAVTEX in the area of the Greek shelf and not in disputed waters. And here, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, as if nothing has happened you have been here since the morning and you have continued your spectacular work, to judge your political opponents and to divide the Greek people, to continue to divide him even at a crucial time for our national interests. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Yesterday all day, the Department of National Defence issued alarm signals. Leaks were given and taken on social media, on the sites, on the radio stations for the withdrawal of licences to the military, for the recruitment of the national guard on our islands, even for the calls to adolescents to be on guard. And all that wasn't given up by some trolls. All this was done by the service actors of the Ministry of National Defence, they leaked them all day yesterday and at the same time New Democracy MPs played it on twitter. Greeks and Greeks, however, stay for a second day without official information and the political forces of the country. And while the entire Turkish fleet is outside the shipyards and is coming out of what we learn from the shipyard, Mr.Mitsotakis, when he lands in Elefsina from Brussels, he refuses not only to inform the political leaders, the political forces and the Greek people about what is happening, but he refuses to convene even the CYSEA, the Governmental Council for Foreign and Defence, the competent government body to coordinate a crisis situation and make decisions. Why is he refusing? In order not to dramatize, they say the situation. But how much more is it to drama her? And how much more would the institution's convening to coordinate and make decisions from all this party, which took place yesterday on social media media media and leaks? On the one hand, calm treatment requires that the HR be convened with the presence of the Chief of the Armed Forces in order to coordinate the country's operational plan in the presence of the Prime Minister and the relevant Ministers. And I wonder: really, what message do you send these critical hours to the other side with this foreign attitude? You don't understand that things are critical? Was it sudden? Was it a surprise? Didn't you know the escalation from the Turkish side? Didn't you know that Turkish provocation in the Aegean does not fit any reassurance? Turkey has long insisted on refusing to play in terms of cooperation and good neighbourliness, ignoring the international community, constantly creates tensions. And this unscrupulous provocative decision came. Is it accidental that he's here now to convert Saint Wisdom into a mosque? And now comes this escalation, the demonstration of military power in the southeast Aegean. In this situation, the country cannot stand stoic, awkward, awkward. A design is required, not fireworks, and not "cowboys" on twitter. Immediate action is needed, not slow reflexes. All available alliances are required, not beggings. But above all it takes unity. The moments require the unity of the Greeks and Greeks. Yesterday Mr. Mitsotakis refused to convene the KYSEA, refused to inform the political leaders but refused to find himself in a concert on Ororos, in order to dismantle the situation. But there he said something important, among other things, that national unity is the most important asset for the challenges of foreign policy. I agree and sign up. Every Greek woman and every Greek is in agreement with this phrase, but unity is ensured primarily by the country's leadership in practice and by works. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What unity, then, does Mr Mitsotakis invoke when he has started with his own responsibility a month and a half now - rather than Mr Samaras - is this 'caitar' of slashing, slandering his political opponents? What unity invokes when with its own choice has led the political life of the moor with the tapes of the illegal surveillance, with the illegal attendance of Ministers during the period of our administration, the surveillance by the agents of your political opponents, and the files you have built for so many years and kept them in your drawers to show them at a critical moment when you feel political weakness, in order to hurt your political opponents with sloppy, underneath the belt? And now he's talking about unity? For what section? Up to the tragedy in Matti you recovered as thugs just yesterday, two years later, to smash the reputation of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group's secretary without any evidence, illegally recording dialogues... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...who, of course, adopted a la carte, on the side you wanted to adopt, and not on your executives who were appointed regional directors with the New Democracy ballots. It is disgraceful that you do two and a half months now in the political life of the place. [[Sustained applause from SYRIZA Wing]] So what unity is Mr Mitsotakis talking about, and indeed a national one, at this critical moment? It does not do this in a dead political time, it does not undermine the political life of the place in a dead political time, but when it knows that it has a plan and strategy on the other side and when, one year now, it has a opposition of national responsibility, an opposition that at all critical times has risen stature of responsibility. He did not do what Mr Mitsotakis and New Democracy did when we brought an agreement to the country with our northern neighbour, which would now be the Turkish armed forces in his airspace. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In both Greek and Evros and in negotiations on the exclusive economic zone with Italy, with Egypt and the Euro-Turkish consultations, we have all put our backs on responsibility. But Mr Mitsotakis has nevertheless chosen two months now, while he is aware of the escalation of the Turkish side, to dynamise the political climate. And today he chooses the most critical moment, with all the Turkish fleet in the southern Aegean, to come here to set up a canopy to judge his political opponent. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's the big one for you. This is the top issue today. The political dialogue has always had tensions, it has always had peaks. But this attempt at mud in the fan that has been set up these two months, while the country is in crisis and economic and national, is absolutely the responsibility of those who are now absent from the parliamentary process once again. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I wonder. What message do they send with them and with their foreign attitudes to the Greek people, but especially what message do they send to those who are watching us across the street? They have a strategy and they already create a fait accompli. What message does Athens send today when at the time of tension and crisis the House meets to deepen the political division caused by Mr Mitsotakis' vengeance towards his political opponents, but also by the obsession of all those controlled by justice, by both judges and their political opponents? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, today, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that as far as I am concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u67	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u68	Because there's going to be a lot of it, gentlemen. This is not the end of the day, there will be all the time! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to ask, Mr President, for the Prime Minister to come to the House today to inform the National Representation of the major issue of the Greek-Turkish crisis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Come here, he can't hide! These seats cannot be empty today. Come here, let the Greek people know. After refusing to inform the political leaders, after refusing to convene the KYSEA but has decided to set up a call for his political opponents today, to come here, to lift to the level of circumstances and at the critical moment to inform the National Representation responsibly. Tell us what the country's plan is to prevent the planned violation of our sovereign rights. This is not the first time Ankara has sent a research vessel to the Greek continent. You all know very well that he did so in October 2018 - it was the 'BAROS' - but the country had a response plan. The Armed Forces moved in time, not after a holiday, and the investigations were prevented at that time. We have protected the sovereign rights of our country as we were due! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I think it goes without saying that the same plan exists today. I think it goes without saying that the same project exists today and we expect Mr Mitsotakis to put it into practice and to inform the National Representation about it. I therefore call on the Government and the Prime Minister, even at the very last moment, to behave seriously and responsibly and at least today to do what is appropriate, to inform the House, to convene the CSCE, and to request an extraordinary meeting of the European Council, in order to discuss and decide, even after all, sanctions against Turkey for the constant and repeated provocative behaviour of violating international legality. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let us not forget, it is not just a threat to the Greek continent. It is threatening to violate the European continent. Let us have this in mind well and let our partners take responsibility for this too. Mr President, I will be waiting for the Prime Minister's presence today in this House and I would like to take the floor again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u69	New Democracy has called for the floor on the part of the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga. Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, when Mr. Tsipras got to Stepma, I believed that, with his current intervention, he really wanted to strengthen national unity... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] ...he wanted to contribute to national unity, but very quickly came, Mr. President, that it was a pretext, a pretext to cancel the current process...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u71	Here we are, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u72	...because, finally, instead of talking about the facts and reporting what SYRIZA's view of the issues that the country is facing today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u73	Didn't you hear? She's in custody.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u74	I would remind you that Mr. Tsipras spoke unreservedly! The interpretations of speeches are the right of speakers and not of the audience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u75	...Mr. Tsipras tried to give arguments, arguments of apology to his MPs for all that they have seen the light of publicity in the last few days, for what has shocked the Greek people, because they are directly affecting the city and democracy. Mr President, not only recently but in recent months, as regards Turkish aggression and provocation, the Prime Minister has constantly informed the political forces, the Greek people, of the international forums. He returned to the country yesterday after a diplomatic battle in Brussels, which was a huge national success, which is an economic, national and political reserve for the coming years. Immediately there was an outbreak of Turkish provocation, from which, instead of surprise, ladies and gentlemen, we were surprised, as in Evros, because we were absolutely ready. And it seemed that to deal with the crises - and the crisis that we are going through - we have four strong elements. We have strong leadership, Mr President, this is very important. We have powerful Armed Forces, with sharp morality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have a united Greek people, no matter how much people try to divide it. We also have powerful allies. These alliances are being exploited and deepened. Everyone has already been informed that we will not tolerate any violation of our sovereign rights. SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras, that is the message we are sending out. Mr. Tsipras wondered what message the Prime Minister and the Greek Government sends. So our message is one and abundant. We will never, for any reason, accept any questioning of our sovereign rights. That is quite clear. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, I would like to say this, not in a way of suggestion but as a personal view. The national homogeneity and unity of the Greek people are strengthened when our word is united, when we take the responsibility of our actions and, in particular, of the actions which have consequences for the country's own democratic functioning, when we explain to the Greek people how these blissful assumptions occurred in the rule of SYRIZA, how all these responsibilities for interventions by the executive in judicial authority arose, how we had so many instances of paralysis and attempting to disorientate from the control of very serious cases...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u76	And make the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u77	Finally, when it is explained, ladies and gentlemen, who was there and who was coordinating all this. This has not happened, Mr President. And that is what we expect colleagues to explain today. That is what we would expect Mr Tsipras to say, strengthening unity. To explain and stress that we are all together in dealing with a sufficient external risk. As long as it does not, it does not, unfortunately, strengthen, but undermine unity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u78	Before Parliamentary Representatives Mr Velopoulos has asked for the floor, who will now speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u79	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u80	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u81	That's right. He had asked for him before. He's a political leader and he's entitled. Mr Loverdos and Mr Janakopoulos will then speak as Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u82	That is not possible, Mr President. Break the process every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u83	And Mr Velopoulos will speak on the subject. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u84	I hope Mr. Loverdos doesn't leave because I'm talking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u85	The procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u86	The procedure is as follows: Mr Tsipras has taken the floor under the Rules of Procedure. So I can take the floor on the basis of the Rules of Procedure too. I'd talk an hour later, but I had to answer. And I have to answer. I shall begin with the representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Colleague of the New Democracy, when did you inform us? When did you inform SYRIZA, the KKE, when did you inform the Greek-Turkish parties? From "SKAI" we are informed, if we want to know your opinion, because of ideological affinity with "SKAI". When SCAI speaks, we understand that the New Democracy speaks. When were the political leaders informed about the Greek Turkish? When? You tell me. I've been saying this for months. And it's time that, instead of being conspiracy, you ran the House. This morning, fellow Members of Parliament made it a ring. I don't know if you were many in here. I'm afraid so. And it's a disgrace to us! You and everyone in here invoke national unity and we almost fought, we become Taiwan. It does not provide a price for this image, while the Turks have made eighteen, nineteen, twenty ships.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u87	That's where you say it. Don't look from here, look from there. There's one from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u88	I don't care. There's the moral and the natural automobile. There is not only one, because the 'Havra' was created by many.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u89	You weren't inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u90	I was, you're wrong. Mr Colleague, because I do not want to have a dialogue with any of you, I will tell you that your representative here has lied. He said the parties were informed. You were disturbed by the ring and who did it? You're lying. New Democracy is lying. He didn't inform any political leaders and no party. That's the truth. Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, on Evros, you have done this "markmark" in the New Democracy. We had naughty people there. Now we have cannons, we have warships. Do you understand? Comparing Evros, who did your job well - to understand it like this - with inconveniences? Illegal immigrants in relation to warships have anything to do with that? And you made it a flag! "We resisted Evros," as if it were in 1940. It was a very good operation of the government - to accept it - with unattractives, not with built-up army, not by ships in the Aegean Sea. Things are much more difficult now - I repeat - Mr Colleague, once you said to sink the Turkish ships and now you say that 'go, walk'. And I stop here. So I say to you, to understand that the information of the Greek Parliament - and I disagree with Mr Tsipras - is not right. The Greek Prime Minister must not inform the House of what is happening. It's wrong. It's SYRIZA's request wrong. The Prime Minister must privately inform the political leaders at a joint meeting, because it is a serious matter now. It has escaped from the context of verbal controversy. And I'll explain why I'm saying that. Because we're making a dramatic mistake. We've been feeding the wolf called Turkey for decades. We feed him with smoothness and balance and coolness. So the wolf goes out into the fold to eat sheep now. If you understood it. If you don't understand, you have a problem. Also, Mr. Tsipras makes the mistake, just like you do. Invite the European Union. If you are not ready to face your enemy, do not expect a European Union, which has invested billions of euros in Turkey, to ruin its relations with you. What's simpler? You want to take action? Start from today boycotts of Turkish products in Greece. We take it personally, the citizens. Move to boycott Turkish products. Do you want to corner the European Union? Stop the flow of products from Turkey, which is European, to Turkey via the Egnatia Road with their trucks. Not as a government. There are also service factors. Check the trucks if they have good tires, if their trucks are safe. You can do it, stall them. Show that you're doing something. Keep invoking the European Union. Which European Union? The European Union does not have an army. Do you understand that you call on the European Union that the European Union does not have an army? Are you aware of this? Thucydides two and a half years ago said that for you to have political power, he must have military power. But the European Union does not have military power. Make them "da"? Is that what you think? They're gonna send Merkel to slap him into the slaps? We were alone, we're alone and we'll be alone. You must understand that. The image of my morning was annoyed by me as a Greek, not as a party president. I don't care. Now we really need to be united. Now, right now, we really need to be united. We should also go to the united Greece, the unified Greeks. You come here with NoVARTIS, gentlemen of the New Democracy. I will accept - because on the basis of what I know, there is a building - yours, if you like, a strategic theorem. I'm doing a work case. Now that the Turks are singing in the Aegean Sea, you come here and discuss "NOVARTIS" and only face one thing, for your party audience. Because if you were really interested in Greece, we would pass "NOVARTIS" and go into the realm of the problems. What are these? Was there a scandal? There was. That's the truth. There was a NOVARTIS scandal. And I do not say it, the Americans say, that NOVARTIS was a company whose behaviour was scandalous. Has Greece won back money from this story? Did the state ask for Greek money? And don't tell me that some of the New Democracy's "we'll ask", because I learned that you sent a letter to the Legal Council of State to see if Greece can claim. What was America doing? Independent law firm took the story and took a billion euro somewhere. Why don't you guys do it? Why didn't SYRIZA, who was after you as thieves and crooks but for five years did nothing to ask for money from NOVARTIS? So, in my mind, I understand, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that if they were criminals and criminals and cons, you didn't go after the money back. You have not been chasing them from NoVARTIS. So I'm starting to think you're accomplices to a crime that's going on with "NOVARTIS" and only for your party audience, you're opposed. The New Democracy asks for consensus from the other parties. I want to understand that, too. And this morning they are confronted, I repeat, as if it were - not to be misunderstood by some - in a ring where the good and the bad or the bad and the good are killed with each other. The reason I didn't understand the morning ring. So I think it's all about the picture. He'll play the evening in the news release, the New Democracy MPs will be heard, and SYRIZA will be heard. People won't see the point. He'll see what you want to show, not reality, not the problem. You really want to fill in - I will say it raw - your client state, your voters. Why do you disagree with 'NOVARTIS', on the issue of the Ambassadors, colleagues of the New Democracy, where you have disagreed in the election, did not say 'yes' to the Committee of Inquiry. You've done it 'ababa', which the people say. You swallowed it all yours! You didn't sign for exam! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the next one. In Greek-Turkish you say the same thing. Dialogue with Turkey. You don't do a dialogue with the wolf. It's over and out. As for "NOVARTIS" you and you of the New Democracy also decided to sacrifice Papagelopoulos. It's not the man here. Sacrifice him! What does Greece gain? Is Greece and Greece winning anything? Let's put him in jail. How old is he? Is it seventy-eight? Two hundred more years to live a human being. He's never gonna get out of prison again. Why didn't you put in the cedar and tsipras he was asking for? In other words, you want to tell me that "NOVARTIS" didn't know Tsipras in Matti, Tsipras didn't know. So, did we have a Prime Minister or a puppet? Didn't Tsipras know anything? I told you to put in the dashboard and tsipras so we could agree together. But you took Tsipras out, put Papaggiopoulou, you don't ask for the money from "NOVARTIS" and you want us to consent to the theater of the absurd, the circus you're going to do. We won't agree. Because, I repeat, and a craftsman is - we agree with you, it is a craftsman, but I will tell you otherwise - political opponents don't take them to court, you take them to justice. We agree. But what do you want to tell me that Tsipras knew nothing? You tell me. Didn't know anything? I'll tell you what the people say. "Here ships are gone, boats are milking," you are gentlemen! I'm telling you that. First ask for the money from NOVARTIS, the millions of euros that were eaten by NOVARTIS and the doctors you all acquitted. Because here there are many doctors anyway, and I am sure that many Members here who were doctors in the past have signed 'NOVARTIS' recipes. Am I wrong? There are doctors and lawyers in here. I imagine some doctors in here today, MPs, six years ago... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm saying some. You're an engineer. We've been through this. You're a mechanic. So I'm saying doctors signed recipes. These recipes are Greek people's money. Why don't you ask? Bring back the stolen "NOVARTIS"! Bring them in and put them in the castle and Tsipras and Velopoulos and Nikolopoulos and whoever you want. Get the money stolen! That's not how we talk. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the essence of Greek-Turkish. You know, I could say the law on the responsibility of ministers. I'll only tell you what the New Democracy said. My good friend's been here since childhood. Politically, we disagree with Adonai, but we've been friends for years. I'm not saying you, Mackey. It's you later. So he said - he was beaten and the man was right, because he thought they were going to jail him, and when you are wrong, you will say more things, as the whole New Democracy said - "They will all be persecuted!" Just Papagelopoulos. Everybody? Where's Tsipras? The other kids in the company where are they? You said it yourself. After the elections, you said, "It is a political punishment for Mr. Tsipras". Your Prime Minister said so. "I..." - says - "My political opponents don't take them to court." So if he's a crook, a crook, he's destroying Greece, don't you ever take him to court? What's that logic? I would also like to ask a rhetorical question: is NOVARTIS making compromises with other countries, whether or not, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Did he compromise SYRIZA? Why doesn't SYRIZA talk? He made compromises with other countries and compensated them. Why didn't SYRIZA and the New Democracy demand a compromise for NOVARTIS to pay millions of euros? None of you! I ask you and answer me about that! Why, while other countries take money, make a compromise with NoVARTIS and take money, Greece never asked? Obviously, why some politicians cover "NOVARTIS"! It's obvious. They're not so poor. You can't all be enough. Some cover 'NOVARTIS'. The United States took 1 billion euros. Can't I get 200m euros and get the Super Puma helicopters and the torpedoes I need and the SCALP missiles that Greece needs to power the Greek Army with guns? You can take 200 million comfortably. Why don't you ask? You go to a legal office and don't go to the Legal Council of State - because you're asking for the responsibility to be passed on from above and go somewhere else - and you really ask for the money back. Put a law firm in place, just like they did in the United States. Because in the end you will get what you have received from "SIEMENS", gentlemen of the New Democracy. And what did you get? You got seminars, some crumbs. You have received seminars for unacceptable learning. That is what you have done with SIEMENS. That is what you will do with NOVARTIS. But because we don't have the means and you have them, you can say what you want and go out on "SCAI", "STAR", on the channels and make the fish meat. You baptize defeat. This was the case with the summit, which I said a lot yesterday, but they were not answered. Because what happened at the summit I will tell you with very simple mathematics and arithmetics. We take - it says - thirty or forty, but it's a loan of half. So we're increasing the public debt, with interest. Don't tell me it's low again. With a recession of 8% and 2% low interest rate is 10%. Simple arithmetic. Let's go to Mr. Tsipras. I'll come back. We have been told about the appeal of the European Union. We made a party announcement this morning. I've been saying this for too many months. Invoice of Article 42 of the European Union. At last, wake up! I have been saying this since March - April - inviting Article 42. After months, Mr. Dendias today did the same. It took months to invoke the article as an extraordinary summit. And today, with a press release, Mr. Dendias asks for it. I sent a personal letter to the Prime Minister himself. I told him about the five Super Puma that ELAS has and they are parked on a roof, because we do not have the EUR 10 million to receive them. The Prime Minister didn't answer me. Tell him, Mr. Parliamentary spokesman, to answer us. Five Super Puma are ready to fight and they are waiting for some millions of euros to come true and come out to the Greek Army. It's five. Not one, not two, not three. Five is - since 2014, this is the story - and it costs two and a half million one. On the contrary, you have given EUR 20 million to the untreated monsters of the media so that they can reinvigorate each minister or politician or prime minister. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want the truth? Turkey has the advantage of surprise. That's the truth. Whenever he decides, he'll hit. That's the reality. Don't be fooled. In other words, when the chances are for her, she'll hit Greece. It's a law-abiding event. Why? He wants to lead us to negotiations. That is the purpose of the Turks. They don't want war in the sense of general war. It doesn't suit them. But they want us to get into negotiation. My question: Is there a united, stiff front? I'll tell you and I'm embarrassed. To the Greek people there is. And I am proud that the Greek people are not listening to the nonsense that is heard here through all the parties. There's a united, stiff front! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We must therefore be united and irresponsible, but the Prime Minister must also take initiatives. To call the meeting of political leaders, to update the data so that we don't talk. The Prime Minister must speak as a united political system and a united people. I say that the people need an example. For the first time I see the Greeks united. So let us realise that we politicians must assume our responsibilities. However, the Prime Minister needs to take the initiative for the rest of the Heads of State and Government to assume their responsibilities. When the Turkish fleet goes down with sixteen warships - nineteen others say, twenty others say - and the Prime Minister yesterday afternoon, with Mrs Sakellaropoulou, unfortunately - I'm sorry - he was on the Horoy in a concert, something is wrong. Unfortunately, we're doing something wrong! I didn't expect it from the Greek Prime Minister, while the whole world was listening to what he was listening to, with some news, misinformation, with the Turkish fleet coming down, the "YAVOUZ" coming out of "ORUC REIS" - to be in a concert. They can't be kids, honestly! And deceive to inform the other party leaders! You don't invoke European sanctions, friends and friends. I'm telling you, honestly. And I say it no to your feelings, to your logic. You state for sure what you can do and that you're ready to do it. What is the Prime Minister's statement that states confidence in what he will do or wants to do? There's no statement. Instead, concerts. Unless the situation is chic, it is agreed through Germany, which is the mediator, to take us into consideration, which many are cultivating within your party, ladies and gentlemen. You missed you once on SKAI, on your channel, on the collapsation. I'm saying it's just to make it clear that there's more to get you out of something else to believe. There are Members of the New Democracy who believe that co-existence is the solution. For us, reconciling with our enemy, our wolf, is his feed and further, to eat us all the next day. Understand, you don't feed the wolf who wants to eat you, you don't give him your fortune! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So your American friends issued a announcement yesterday. And to see how bad the behavior of your channels, the means you control, went out and said "United States support to Greece". Here is what the statement said: 'We call on Turkey to avoid moves that will increase tensions in a disputed area'. Are you satisfied with this American statement? Your friends Americans and Germans consider the Greek continent to be questionable? And if you tell me that it's no longer 100% Greek the continental shelf, why didn't we set coordinates, why don't you set coordinates as New Democracy in the UN? For months now, he had to send the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and say that this area is ours and that we did the EOZ with the coordinates, we proclaimed it! Do you know what happened yesterday, ladies? What Shelitis did with the Imias, you guys did yesterday with Kastelorizo, because the Americans grayed the region as questionable. That's the reality! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And when you read well what the Americans say, you'll understand the crime that took place for the second time in a few days. The first is that you didn't send coordinates. I'm telling you so you know, because some might chew spoon, but the Greek Solution neither eats hay nor swallows spoon. He came here to tell you, warn you and help you not make mistakes. Any government. You also forget basic things. Why didn't you make an AEZ statement with Cyprus? He's finishing the story with Kastelorizo. Unilateral proclamation and demarcation with Cyprus. You're over Turkey! Why are you afraid, because they told you not to, because they had to break down the area, so that we could move, either quietly or by accident, into a co-existence and a dialogue, which would be participatory. I'm telling you right now. A dialog for the property of the Greek people will not be made by any Greek government. Why? Because it is a betrayal by the Greek people! You have to go to elections and then we're going to dialogue. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I will say: we have nothing to fear from the Turks. Nothing! Those who know a little about the guns know that our submarines are better than the Turks, that we have superarm, they know that we can swing over eighty kilometers with the "SCALP" Greece. We are over the Turks and if there is a "false", a "crazy" like Koundouriotis, it is very easy for Turkey to go back where it deserves, in the Dardannelias, so that they do not go back to the Aegean and do not cause! This is the value of the Turkish navy and it has been proved many times. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So I repeat that he wants temperament from the political system, united stiff front, but not fear. We're not afraid of anyone and we can't fear anyone because we're better. We have good Icarus, good sailors, good Navy, good soldiers, good officers, who are falling, good weapon systems that we can answer, and no Turk can scare the Greeks. The Greeks united, never defeated! Unified, though! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let us start from our political system and send a message to some there in Turkey. I was reading a Turkish historian, who is at the University of Saggari, who asked fellow Members to remove the frescoes of St. Wisdom, because the empress says ours was a prostitute and says that the mosque cannot accommodate prostitutes and will dismantle it. This is his suggestion to Erdogan. I can tell him something very simple. He has no right to speak of our Orthodox temple, for his own Mohammed the Orthodox had eight-year-old nuns and he was with Ibrahim. I'm telling people to understand. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture did not respond. There was no statement. I repeat: When he comes out, this Bahceli, Erdogan's partner, the supporter and supporter of the chauvinism of Turkey, fascism and Naziism that governs Turkey, and says the above and wears the ring with the Holy Sophia mosque and shows it on the channels, will you dialogue with them? Do you want to have a dialogue with them, gentlemen of the New Democracy? With them? With Bachtelli, the "Gray Wolves", the fascist Nazis? No dialogue with Nazis, not dialogue with fascists, not dialogue with chauvinists who have been oppressing, violating human rights for decades and slaughtering people! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of course, I know that my friend Adonis will answer, but Adonni Georgiadis I never expected you to give money to ELIAMEP, and to answer our friend with a look - I will say it directly - the right thing about ours - says - Russian support. I will tell you something, Mr Georgiadis, and I want you to remember it well: Velopoulos has not changed a line for twenty years in what he has said. And he has said a thousand times that there are no friends, there are interests. He has also said that ELIAMEP is an institution that is struggling for collaboration in the Aegean Sea. And I don't understand why you don't give a few million to get your Super Puma and your Government, and you give Doku's ELMEPA and the other good kids who have all the anti-national texts, money. That's what I don't understand. I never understood that. And I'm sorry because - I'm going to tell you straight away, Adonni Georgiadis - we're the only ones who have a particular attitude. If we supported a government or a state, we would also take pictures of his ambassadors. If you show me a picture of another country's ambassador, I'll resign tomorrow morning. Ambassador to their embassy in their offices! There's not a single American or German where I was born! You told Mr. Villard that we were with the Russians. You said it and it's written in the Minutes. We're not with the Russians. That's your problem. You don't get it. Because you're with the Germans and the Americans, we have to be with the Russians. We are with Greece and the Greeks and the interests of the country. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm not saying you're not in the interests of the country. But I say you may be wrong, because the Americans have never helped us. They've already grayed the Kastelorizo. And by closing - because I don't want to be an apologist - I'm going to propose some things for some people who don't want to understand. What would I do if I was Prime Minister? Countermeasures now! I would put the channels, which I gave 20 million euros, to start saying not to take Turkish products. Where does Turkey hurt today? In her economy, ladies and gentlemen. Let's press her there, let's press her in her good, in her economy! Her economy collapses, she has huge financial problems. Are you going to tell me he's going to die? No, it'll hurt. We will show that we are reacting and that we are not waiting for the 'god machine' called the European Union, to come save us and to 'do da'. Who will "show" Turkey? Italy, which gives Turkish military helicopters? The German tanker in Turkey? The United States that provides weapons systems to Turkey? They're gonna beat Turkey? Is that what you think? They give multiples of price. Let's go to the next one. Create problems with the transportation of Turkish products from Egnatia Street. I've said it a thousand times. Make moves in order to be convincing in the European Union that you are asking for countermeasures. You are making moves to show the European Union that you are determined that the Prime Minister has decided to impose countermeasures. I am not saying for war, I say for economic war that we are reacting to the chauvinism of Turkey. At last, you're doing something! You remind me of the ostrich that puts the head in the sand and says "I will be saved". The lion's gonna eat it! You also remind me of the one who drowns and says "Athena Goddess save me". Plus, Athena and the hand is on! Turkey is the wolf, as I told you, and we are the sheep. If you're a sheep, it's pointless to make vegetarian decisions and say we're vegetarian, so Europe will save us. As long as the wolf still sees you as a sheep, you'll be a sheep for him. And Turkey, the wolf, sees us as a sheep! Understood! In conclusion, I would like to say this: do you want proposals? Let the New Democracy send out a message to your MEPs today - a resolution is being made tomorrow - for boycotting Turkish products in the European Parliament. And let SYRIZA send - why not? - and all the rest of the parties. It is Mr Fragou, our MEP, who says 'the European Union, the Commissioner responsible for Trade, decides to create problems and obstacles to Turkish products, quality controls...' etc. Because I see that some people seem strange, we can based on European standards make quality controls on Turkish products, fruit and vegetables, food, etc., herbicides, pesticides. It's a machine, and you send it back. So sign this text by your MEPs. Do not do as you did with the "ANTIFA" that we proposed as a Greek Solution in the European Parliament to consider as a terrorist organisation those carrying weapons and bombs and never signed it. Sign against Turkey with us. Do it at last! Tell your MEPs to sign. But you sign other things. And that bothers me, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what you're signing? Let Mrs Keramemos give a million euros to the Botanic, give the Greek state 50m euros - Mrs Mendoni - to Ottoman monuments, to remind us that Greece was once four hundred years enslaved. This is what the New Democracy signs. It's our little Helladism, which is seriously harming our homeland. I'll tell you and I'll close here. Think as Greeks, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You're government, the rest of us are opposition. Think as Greeks, not as Greeks. Think boldly, think over the centuries who Greeks have been and not in the last ten years we have been riding because of bankruptcy. Consider that Greece is the first to be Greece, first it is the Greeks and to make new Thermopylae, if necessary. United Greeks, ever defeated! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But listen to the Greek Solution, because what the Greek Solution wants is once to rule, yes, but until then he wants to help any government. Whether it's SYRIZA, whether it's New Democracy, whoever it is, we'll be right next to the good and the wrong, but we'll always be for the good of the country here and in the interests of the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u91	Before giving the floor to the two parliamentary representatives who requested it, Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Loverdos, I would like to make a little clarification, because it was heard by previous speakers that the Prime Minister was at a concert in Oropus. Yesterday there was an event organized by the Greek Parliament in Oropo, which was not a concert, as the invitation I will present in the Minutes was written. It was an event of concession by the Ministry of Justice of the old Oropopos prisons in the Municipality of Oropo, in order to establish a Centre for History, Democracy and Structures of Culture, following the completion of forty-six years of the restoration of democracy, which was a response to a request for decades from the Municipality of Oropo, and is associated with the fact that the day after tomorrow is the forty-seventh anniversary of the restoration of democracy. I submit the invitation to the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u92	Let's do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u93	Any cancellation of the event due to the tension we had with Turkey could also be hampered as a panic of inappropriate public opinion. The event went very well, and it was neither a concert nor a movie, since it had an audiovisual projection. I'm talking about any next speakers who might say he went to the movies. It was therefore an organised event by Parliament, which symbolised unity, resistance to the dictatorship and the will of our democracy to move forward. I will give the floor to Mr Janakopoulos, then to Mr Loverdos, and then to Mr Villardos, for the order that he has as a priority speaker. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand and sympathize with the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, who, given the absence of Mr Mitsotakis - not only today by the House, but as a whole from the political field, whether this is about negotiating in Europe or about the Greek-Turkish issues - feels the need to maintain the morale of Mr Mitsotakis' semi-parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u95	Take a look behind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u96	But from that point to point of view, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy assures us that Mr. Erdogan, the President of Turkey, feels also surprised, you understand that there is a small one - I will say - distance. I think we should, if anything, at such critical times that we maintain the seriousness that is appropriate to the situation. Because, as an Austrian general said during World War I, the situation is extremely critical but not at all serious. I will also tell the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative that he does not need to cut back on an undeniable historical reality. It is absolutely inspiring in the conscience of the Greek people, which faction for the last eighty years has chosen to defend the interests of the Greek people and which part is investing in division and persecution. I would therefore recommend to him, when he speaks of this political area, that he be much more careful, because he is and is absolutely focused on anyone who is well following this debate and also on the developments of the last two months, who is the orchestra of the paramilitary method of plundering, confiscating and proscating political opponents. The absent today, Mr. Mitsotakis. If Mr Mitsotakis wants to be atonemented for political misery that has been orchestrating for the past two months, he would be well to gather any political courage he has left and come here before this House to inform him of the plan he has. We say that. It turns out he doesn't have to face the provocative Erdogan. All the rest are prophecies in sin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. There has, of course, been a distance from the position of Chief of Officership. I will try to regain the debate there, with no extremes and no exploitation of the few minutes at my disposal. Look, Mr President, the Prime Minister needs to be informed and the Chief of Staff is right. It's bad it hasn't happened yet. We, we were informed as a party, I was specifically informed by Mr Panagiotopoulos and Mr Teddy - that is one truth, we were talking until late last night - but it is important that the Prime Minister of the country should inform the political leaders. I agree with that absolutely. I also agree with the remark made by the Chief of Staff Response regarding those who found the day yesterday to take advantage of the facts and play a role of supranational on the Internet when they are politicians. They don't offer good services, and I'm both horizontal and vertical and diagonal. I mean, I'm absolute. The third argument is also serious. When a neighbouring state, Turkey, is trying to create a crisis, regardless of the outcome, because we have days ahead that NAVTEX lasts, you must know as Greece that it tests you, regardless of what they will do. They test you, first of all, to see what your diplomatic movements will be and especially what their contents will be. Not if you answer the phone, but what are you gonna say? They test you, when it comes to how your Armed Forces move and test our political system, if it finds a chance to fight each other, to fight the parties, to exchange arguments, to make internal negotiations before the country's negotiations and so on. In this sense, last afternoon, when the tension with the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we met all the parties, the four parties that were present at the time, not to give any hint or question to the Minister. What for? In order not to set up our agenda, others, not to show panic, not to appear, in any case, that we are not worthy of circumstances as political organisations. That's the way it all happened. Now, being in the mood to hide behind Greek-Turkish, when it comes to a question of democracy, I do not see it right, I see it wrong. I would like to remind you, with pride, that at the time of our persecutions in previous years, when we were discussing national issues, we as a Change Movement, as a PASOK, were discussing in the National Foreign Policy Council even after glorious meetings of Parliament, we were going to the National Foreign Policy Council and we are responding to our national duty. We never confused one thing with the other. Whoever it was that was ruling - which was SYRIZA and ANEL - on foreign policy issues, our so-called national issues, we have never tried the argument relating to our national issues, to transfer it to the internal conflict or vice versa. We have taken a consistent attitude, and we are proud of it. We're doing the same today. The President has asked us to convene the Council of Political Heads first of all. He insists on it, and he's right. It has not been convened so far. But, in any case, Mr President, I repeat all the great problems of our foreign policy cannot stop the procedures of the Greek state - when, Mr President? - especially when you're going to prove that you're calm, to prove in practice the unity that has been forged between political forces, and to see us outside as an indivisible body. If we turn today's debate or tomorrow's, any debate in this House in a debate on controversy and controversy is a disastrous mistake, and so we disagree with the intervention of the Chief of Police. Finishing, a phrase. It is not today the day when Parliament discusses issues relating to political opponents, their responsibilities, their persecution, etc. It is a day when Parliament is discussing a problem of democracy and we must respect this by respecting the rules of parliamentary ethics, while respecting the rules of political decency, and by looking at the end of the day to make sense of what has happened to us and not to lose the meaning again. Finally, Mr President, it is also an opportunity to have the last day of poisoning in this Chamber, to have responsibilities as must be attributed, in accordance with the powers of the House, and to continue to make our debts to the Greek people undiminished by conflicts of this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Buga, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pafilis has asked for the floor and Mr Buga will be closed. Mr. Villardo, you are enduring an exercise of patience. I see you, you're peaceful. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u101	Yes, the positions and statements are good, but there are two important points that neither of the other parties speak about. The fact that the Turkish government is escalating aggression against the country is a fact and it is not today. What are the two points we think the Greek people should take into account? Firstly, all this development comes immediately after the European Union summit and it shows that, where you put your hopes and your strategic allies are whistling indifferently, not to say that the sails of Turkey's aggression are riseing. Secondly, it concerns the stumbling block of the strategy and SYRIZA and the New Democracy and KINAL, which is about the strategic alliance we have with the United States of America that has transformed the country into a truly aggressive field with the foundations you have given. So what does State Department's statement say? What's he saying? Why don't you talk about it? He's talking about questionable areas, questionable waters. The area is water. It's not just land. It says, therefore, that the State Department and the great allies you have made and intervention with the Embassy and the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs of the United States of America. What does that show, in our opinion? And that's the most important thing. It shows that the co-management of the Aegean has been decided when it talks about disputed waters. Who? The United States of America, your strategic ally and many are those - and it is not from the area of the Communist Party of Greece - too many and many military and superiors, who say that we are on our own. So it turns out how disastrous, destructive, destructive is the policy that supports the country's sovereign rights and rights in general in NATO, the European Union and the United States of America. That is what the Greek people must know, who is called and will be called upon in any case to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity and borders of the country. We therefore say that the situation is serious, it is crucial and that, in terms of the policy of bowing and identifying the governments with all those who slaughter the people in the region, I say a slogan, "the imperialists of the earth are re-sharing, with the peoples the borders are carving." This must be borne in mind by the Greek people and must be on guard. Of course, it will defend both its territorial integrity and the country's borders, but at the same time it must press, mobilise, so that the country can move away from the literally deadly hug of the allies that serve and the interests of the local population - I would say - oligarchy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u102	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga, will close this placement cycle. Evidently, there's a hot opportunity. But we also have one point on which we are here today and we need to balance between the two facts. However, it is interesting to inform the House that as long as we are discussing the question of informing the Government about the crisis, tension, tension with Turkey or other issues, the government has already announced how the Prime Minister will inform the political leaders tomorrow on all these issues. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to assure Mr Janakopoulos, so that he does not worry, that the country has a serious government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Both the Prime Minister and the Government, Mr President, are at national level alert and react with prudence and calmness in the time that must and must be. As you have announced, the fact is that tomorrow the Prime Minister, in his office, will successively accept the political leaders in order to inform them of both the results of the recent summit and the current issues of Turkish provocation. Consequently, the request for information to the political leaders is no longer timely. I am pleased that Mr Loverdos on his own took the initiative, as he said yesterday, and was informed about the issues that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u104	And SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u105	And SYRIZA. Mr President, I would also like to stress that today the National Representation has to carry out a serious institutional task, and we should all be aware of the seriousness, history - let me say - of today's sitting. It is attempting, for the third time in this Chamber, to challenge SYRIZA's reproach for alleged absence and fugitiveness of the government. So to get this over with, the government is not coming to an end. He respects the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. Today's process, like the previous ones, is a process which, in accordance with the provision of Article 86 of the Constitution, begins, continues and is completed by the Parliament, by the National Representation. It's not a question of government. This, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, must be understood. In order to be able to behave in a democratic and parliamentary way, you must finally understand the functioning of the parliamentary institutions. Unfortunately, so far you have not understood it. Therefore, Mr President, the government's attitude is absolutely institutional. It is about the House today. The House will, after all, decide whether or not to prosecute the criminal prosecution. One last thing. While the debate today is about whether the Committee of Inquiry is to be accepted to prosecute the former Minister, so far I have not heard a single supportive argument from the SYRIZA side. They're trying to create stumbling blocks in the conversation. They raise a number of unrelated issues and, apart from Mr Lappa's 'procedural' objections, on the substance of what is being charged to the former Minister, and of course indirectly but also directly to the then government of SYRIZA - ANEL, there has been no single word. We wait anxiously to hear what SYRIZA has finally to say about this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u106	To borrow an expression: However, the caravan goes on. So, Mr. Villardo, come and prove it. You are the last priority speaker in this circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Return to 'NOVARTIS'. First of all, our position is that all cases of this kind are purely a matter of justice. Of course not in the House. That is why we are in favour of the complete abolition of Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, which has, in fact, remained as it stands, with a small pretext for correcting it. We would remind you here that the latest revision of the article was completed by the resolution of 25 November 2019. In the present case, the short depreciation period provided for in the preceding Article, namely the preceding Article, was abolished. However, no amendment has been made concerning the competent prosecution bodies, as well as the entire prosecution procedure for the members of the government. What is now happening in practice? Warrant cases are literally dragged between Parliament and justice for many years, reducing citizens' confidence in the political system. In other words, the scandals which hit not only the economy, but mainly the rule of law, have generally left the politicians concerned, who have either facilitated, indifferent, or mostly enriched, on the basis of the constitutional provisions on non-responsibility, in essence, and not prosecute the members of the government. The disastrous consequences of corruption, inter-terrorism and impunity have been paid and still have been paid to the citizens, as well - unfortunately - by the economy of the country, so that today even our territorial integrity is at stake. In this regard, correctly, they did not bring the memorials of the crisis, but corruption brought both the crisis and the memorials, with which Greece was destroyed and will continue to be destroyed. As for the reduction of health expenditure, the troika is not, of course, due to PASOK, as his rapporteur said. As far as we are concerned, what we should generally be interested in as Greeks in the case of NOVARTIS is, of course, the scandal, the billions, i.e., lost by the Greek State, so the taxpayers, of these kinds of practices, while it is degrading and disappointing for the political leadership of our country, for all of us Greeks, to collect more than $300 million for something that was about Greece, while Greece absolutely nothing. Of course, this is a very small sum for this company, the stock market value of which is 200 billion, its turnover is 50 billion a year, and it earns 12 billion a year net. Much less so when they were found by the prosecutor's office, according to the statement of a judicial officer, two bank accounts of EUR 130 million by this company - which is certainly not the only one - without any attempt to investigate them. However, the pharmaceutical company that was present as a witness, and we asked him whether it was a craftsman or a scandal, he clearly and spontaneously replied to us that this was certainly a scandal, eradicating even our infinite doubts. Continuing, we said very quickly, when we attended the first pre-inquiry sessions, that it was a parody. For the conflict of the three involuntary or voluntary parties covered the scandal, since its existence is given. For at least this reason: let us imagine that we are accused of being indicted to a court which both its president and the majority of his jury have decided in advance to condemn us no matter what happens. Is it possible, then, to ever expect a fair and objective procedure or decision? Can we under these conditions ever win the trial even if we're right? Of course, we do not claim that Mr Papagelopoulos is right or wrong, since we are only talking about the procedure, which we considered to be a parody. On the other hand, if Mr Papagelopoulos did what he is accused of, could Mr Tsipras not know about them? However, from the questions which we have asked and from what we have seen, we believe that this is impossible. No way, 100%. So why isn't Mr. Tsipras also accused? Because he was a prime minister? Does a Prime Minister have the right to impunity? Even Chancellor Kol, however, in Germany, the originator of her union, was punished for something much milder. In Greece, of course, many other crimes, of a great size, especially after 2009, with the top PSI, which was delivered without any consideration of our national sovereignty, as well as the signature of the third memorandum by the three parties that were confronted in the pre-inquiry without any punishment. However, our country will never have a future, and it will walk from evil to worse, such as any country that does not have a serious rule of law. If PASOK - KINAL now thinks with its new name - that it was rinsed off by SYRIZA, as we understood from the previous report, it is a big mistake. Such crimes don't launder and they never forget. Unfortunately, now, after what we sadly watched, another extremely large patient in our country is justice, at least at its highest levels, which has hit us to a great extent, since we understand what may happen to people who have the misfortune to drive there even if they are innocent. After all, justice is the last refuge for the citizens, since it must protect them from any arbitrary action. And not to deal with the government in question, with the aim of professional or other interests of its officials, their careers and not the administration of justice. Unfortunately, the impression that has been created to us is that there is an unacceptable complexity of politics with justice. So everything that is said about the independence of the two powers, which we as Greek Solution support, is just about the eyes of the world. Of course, there is neither Greece nor the independence of legislation by the executive, since, in fact, it decides, orders and institutionalises the majority of the MPs, who today dare not even express another view, let alone the bills tabled by the ministers. In the final analysis, the absolute prime minister, who actually works as a monarch, especially if his party has a hundred and fifty-eight of such Members. So something can happen in the country, let alone serial scandals, without the Prime Minister knowing it? For example, can one believe that Mr. Simitis did not know what his ministers, who, while being acquitted at first, were then found to be guilty of scandals? But if it is not possible, then how do scandals remain without punishment in the case of drugs that started at least after 1997, as is seen from too many statistical tables? Why hasn't anyone investigated them? Why, for so many months, so many MPs have investigated the possibility of a drug scandal and no one has ever investigated the drug scandal? In relation to the charges witnesses, especially the most important one at the end, it was enough once that we saw him and heard him to understand what this was about. I don't have to say anything else. We therefore feel that it is shameful for the government to support its accusations against the individual, the witness in question, who gave us the impression that he clearly wanted to take advantage of the case, as he would have done with any other government. So we participated in a point, and then we as Greek Solution only as observers in the pre-interview or at all, since we understood exactly what was going on, as we realized that our participation had no meaning. In addition, we did not want, with our active presence, to legitimise the procedure, which, for the reasons mentioned above, was temporally unacceptable. Furthermore, it was unacceptable to examine hooded witnesses, that is, from the pre-examination floor to the GDR, with witnesses to another and with a telephone link between them, where obviously no one knew if the witness was actually there. After seeing it the first time neither witness showed up, while the police who allegedly watched them and protected them at night could not find them, of course we abstained from this incredible paradox. It was a travesty for many more reasons, including for the funny topic - comedian better - to examine infinitely experienced prosecutors and interrogators, waiting to find out the truth, if we assume that they were really looking for the truth. Another topic that made us a bad impression was the supposed secrecy of meetings, which has never been observed since the first time, except for us who are self-evident that we always respect the rules and democracy. In particular, almost at the same time as the meetings were held, we saw their contents clearly posted on websites, while immediately after the end of the meetings, many of the participants were unequivocally discussing the House with journalists, leaking everything and noting that their act was a criminal offence. So indifference and impunity everywhere. The worst part of all, however, is that this paradox was carried out in one of the most difficult times in Greek history, with our country facing atrocious national and economic problems - it is not a problem - which requires the full assistance of all of us, parties and citizens, that is, national solidarity, if not to solve, at least so that they do not get worse, because they will deteriorate as our country operates. A further subject that impressed us was the friendly relationship between those who were confronting when they were outside the meeting room, where they were not seen and recorded. Was it really a sign of political culture that we did not see today, or simply hypocrisy and underground transactions? In order to be as objective as possible, what happened next, namely to reveal Mr. Papa's recorded conversations, have documented that SYRIZA, the magazi, as his party calls himself, is submerged in corruption, so nothing is ruled out in the Papagelopoulos case. We shall not repeat, of course, this self-evidently, that this is a disgrace for the Left, especially for those who have fought and suffer for their ideology, whether or not anyone agrees with it, or our suspicion that it has exchanged Macedonia's name with the extension of EUR 95 billion of debt for after 2032, since Germany never makes concessions without much larger exchanges. However, it is not the best left-wing, without all its executives being involved - away from us, collective responsibility - but only those who have taken concrete action. This does not mean, of course, that we are in favour of accepting videotexts as evidence in the courts, as it has unfortunately been institutionalised in Greece, since it would be scary to have to look for his interlocutor if he was wired before discussing with him. However, the fact remains, the incredible corruption of a party that ruled Greece, at least one minister of his side to the Prime Minister. Did Mr. Tsipras not know that either? If we accept it, he would be either foolish or incompetent, two equally dangerous features for the Prime Minister of a country. In conclusion, I would like to say that the impression we have gained is that someone or ministers from different parties are as guilty as they are indicted, but the difference is that they are so experienced that they know how to hide and what to avoid being arrested, while SYRIZA does not even have that ability. As we mentioned and experienced, however, it is so disappointing, so heartfeltly for the Greeks who have every right to accuse the politicians of whom they have suffered for many decades. So there is no possibility of Greece getting away from the greatest disaster it has suffered in its long history, so it will be difficult to avoid literally ending up with the garbage of history as a nation, with a unique possibility, but the exemplary punishment of all the corrupt politicians and parties that led it to its present fate, without which there will not be a future. Without punishment Greece will not have a future, as it has nothing in the world. We will close with a comment on the recent prosecution of the prosecutor for corruption, Mrs Toulupakis, not for this prosecutor but, more generally, for the functioning of independent justice. The scandal is that the prosecutors and the interrogators who dared to investigate the case in depth, searching for evidence of the possible involvement of political persons, are indicted. Instead of finding the parties involved before justice and further investigation into the role of political people from justice, not from the House, the judges are accused. The Minister of Development even asked for judges' prisons. Of course the judicial officers must be punished when they are illegal, but in this case another is the risk. The aim of the Government is to file the case for its own people, on the one hand, without punishing a member or his supporter, on the other hand, to send a clear message that in the Greek order of things justice is the therapy of the system. It can be dealt with as much as justice with the little ones, but not the big ones. A lot more is not allowed to reveal the sins of the political system and the responsibilities of its protagonists. Prosecutors against corruption - not this one, but in general - are not simply a distraction to the 'NOVARTIS' scandal and a blow to the fight against corruption, but is a deep blow to independent Greek justice. What prosecutor or judge will he want in future to risk or risk exploring, in other words, scandalous assumptions in which there will be a shadow of political people? Apparently no one. Finally, as it is understood, we will abstain from the vote, so of course we will leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u108	We thank Mr Villardos and the consistency in time with which the first cycle of speakers has been completed. Before going to the rest of the three cycles, we will give the floor to Mr Dimitris Papaggiopoulou, former Deputy Minister of Justice, for thirty minutes and then, as I said before, to follow - as I said before - the speakers from the next circles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I am very sorry for today's confrontation, especially with the New Democracy. Today, maximum national consensus and unanimity are required. But it's not my choice. I have to fight for my honor, my reputation and the truth and above all the historical truth. Nevertheless, I will try to eliminate, or if I can't, mitigate the toughest phrases in my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech before you in October 1919 when you decided to set up a Preliminary Committee to investigate my alleged criminal responsibilities as Deputy Minister of Justice I made two major mistakes. I said I'd turn my prosecutors into defendants. I didn't have to. They were transformed by their own mistakes and mainly by the revelations they themselves caused by the process that followed. Wrong second: I stated that my targeting was a vengeful political persecution. After nine months it has proved to be something much larger, complex and multiplely dangerous for democracy and justice. Nine months of investigation, nine months following the ongoing violation of the Constitution, the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the ECHR and the established case-law, Greek and international. None at all, however, but absolutely no evidence, not incriminating, not just prejudicial, nor a slight suspicion was found at my expense. I will wait all day to hear, beyond the ideas reports and the flammations about the left-wing paradox, which aims to hide the reality of the paradox, to listen to some particular element. "Papagelopoulos then did this, Papagelopoulos did that with him." But that was not the case. And you know why it wasn't found? Because there's absolutely nothing against me. In vain my prosecutors widened the indictment against me. In vain, completely illegal and unconstitutional, they called witnesses during the preliminary, unrelated to the "NOVARTIS" scandal. Mr Buga spoke of respect for Article 86, which was chaired by a committee which systematically and conscientiously violated Article 86. The Preliminary was set up to investigate the alleged construction they had set up for the "NOVARTIS" scandal. What were all the other witnesses who came to work before enlargement? Who violated Article 86 of the Constitution? So in vain, completely illegal and unconstitutional, they called witnesses unrelated to the "NOVARTIS" scandal. However, despite all the illegality, despite all the efforts, not even a subtle charge could be made. I have repeatedly challenged the majority of the Preliminary Committee to clarify why I am being accused. I didn't get a reply at the time, nor now with her conclusion. I have said this repeatedly and I will repeat it: I feel like Josef K. protagonist in the Kafka trial. Please for months, please and today at the last minute tell me why I'm being accused and answered, I'm not taking or I'm not going to take it. All this, of course, did not prevent the majority of the Preliminary Committee from demanding, with its conclusion, criminal prosecution against me, with a prefabricated conclusion, whose writing had begun before the Preliminary Committee finished its work, before I even appeared before it to defend myself. Even the pretexts weren't kept in my case. It follows from statements made by the members themselves by the majority of the Preliminary Committee, and it has been written on several occasions in the press. This event, ladies and gentlemen, will remain in the parliamentary history of Greece and in legal science as a black page on democracy and on the administration of justice. Instead of being an in-depth and fully justified legal text, it is a report of ideas flooded with legal acronyms - I do not want to use the word 'annoying' for reasons of education - and logical or more or less illogical inconsistencies. Today, then, I am not going to concern you with the non-existent legal part of an unexistent charge. Today I am going to concern you with the core and root causes of the unprecedented and incomprehensible violation of the Constitution, any concept of legitimacy and the elaboration of a top parliamentary procedure. In recent years the political life of the place has been led to a minefield. The collapse of all charges against me has angered my persecutors and mobsters trying to do everything they could not do with me and other SYRIZA ministers. Of course, Alexis Tsipras is the ultimate target. Relevant hints or direct reports have already been made by previous speakers. The war of mud and tape has reached the peak. Cassels everywhere, illegal tapes. One appeared and proud to have another nine. Mr. Jenos' accurate tape notes. Cassettes in the fire department, cassettes in the U.S.A. in broad circulation. Soon in the kiosks we won't buy empty tapes to use, write songs or whatever we want, but tapes with illegal tapes. We will buy them in the kiosks to listen to them and satisfy all sorts of illegal pursuit. However, there are other morbid and degenerative symptoms about our democratic civilisation: character killers, targeting and political persecution of opponents. I was the beginning. I don't get much out of them. A careful reading of the finding of the majority government, for whoever knows little about law, will understand what I want to say. So I was the beginning. Nikos Pappas and Olga Gerovasili followed, but they won't be the last. Others will follow. My antennas already catch something for Mr. Kaloger, Mr. Vassiliade, and I don't know who else. Here we go, and we'll see. If needed, I will offer them my experience of this unjust and unprecedented targeting. The government's massive failure to manage the economy and national issues cannot for a long time be covered by the 'blocked coups' of the systemic media. It is urgently necessary that anyone who is not "buddled" be shredded or terrified by constructed criminal prosecutions of a pretext. But there's worse. Prosecutors are threatened and smuggled, criminal prosecution is being carried out, as I will report below, at the expense of Ms Toulopakis, who are not allowed to intervene in the independence of justice ministers of the current government and its officials. In particular - and I am sorry to say this - the statement by Mr Tsiras, Minister of Justice of the Government, that the cases of political persons being investigated by justice were archived or that they should be filed now. Do you want any other proof of the violation of the Constitution, of the independence of justice, of the separation of powers? And that's who? The Minister of Justice! Otherwise, not one, ten special courts for Papagelopoulos! And you will convince people of your choices! However, there is no way to legitimize the para-state, the mafia-like practices, and to obscure the truth. But these methods are a diversion of our democratic culture. Democracy lurks us into an authoritarian exercise of power in a fascist attitude. If we do not all react, we risk turning into 'Banana'. However, no jufi sound of any scandals that were allegedly committed during the SYRIZA government period is going to cover Muesine's voice tomorrow in Agia Sophia and any other noise from Erdogan's illegal actions at the expense of Greece's sovereign rights. A lot more will not cover the noise I do not want to hear, drilling in our national waters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u110	Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u111	Did you say anything, Mr. President? No, it must have been heard from underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Pappiggiopoulou, the Bureau has not interrupted you. You were interrupted by one of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u113	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u114	The voice he heard was not from the Bureau because you asked the Bureau. It was from a colleague. And by the way, please respect the speaker. Go on, Mr. Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u115	So today, instead of choosing national unity, we are diverted into scandalology and criminalisation of political life. And I'm not talking about myself. The decision for me has been taken a long time ago. I'm talking about what's coming. It will be a disastrous mistake if this road continues and I really hope that this will not happen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, with your vote, you will set up or will not set up in the executive body the justice and freedom of the press, an executive extract created by corruption and strife, by the criminals with white collars, the gangsters of major economic crimes. Today, with your vote, you will show whether you believe in the independence of justice or seek justice feared and subjected to the great economic interests and political interests. Today, with your vote, you will prove if you want the press free, judge and control power as it is required or seek the press either "blocked" from all kinds of sponsorships or persecuted on demand. Today, with your vote, you will prove whether you will criminalize research journalism and the revelation of great scandals. Today, with your vote, you will prove whether you believe in the separation of powers or seek to intervene in an ongoing judicial investigation, the investigation of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Today with your vote you can prevent the cover-up and spreading of large economic scandals, such as the "NOVARTIS", the great tax evasion hidden in the Lagard list, the Vengeopoulos scandal and many others who are attempting through the political persecution against me to unleash and which scandalously led the country to the memorial and bankruptcy. The cover-up and unleashing of the major scandals will surely affect the people's confidence in our political system and possibly lead them to dangerous thoughts and choices for democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider for a few minutes how dangerous and degenerative it is for our democracy to be prosecuted with me by prosecutors and journalists simply because they did their job. Consider also that you will create a very bad and dangerous precedent. They are ten Vaxevanes, five of Philippakis - exactly so many - and two of Papadakou articles on matters that I did not know about, I had nothing to do with them, most of them were carried out - the publications and articles - at a time when I was neither Minister nor Minister, and I had been retired by the prosecutor. I was just a retired man. So these few articles with which I have nothing to do with - see their dates - seek the majority of the Preliminary Committee to turn them into evidence of criminal organisation and extortion. I would point out, however, that there are dozens of specific newspapers which have been proclaiming for months, and the worst thing is that they are confirmed on a number of issues. Firstly, many months ago they announced the drafting of the Preliminary Committee. They have announced the actions of the Preliminary Committee, which witnesses will be called, what these witnesses will testify, what documents will be produced and other details that are creepy about our democracy. They have also announced to what the finding will have been and some have already announced my conviction. I would like to remind you of anyone who wants to think a little bit about the fact that the call from the witnesses to the Sabby Mioney, Panagiotis Athanasios and Georgia Tsatanis had been made to the press several months before they were called, although their statements had absolutely nothing to do with the NOVARTIS case. I say this so that no one would say "the journalist was intelligent and tells you "Who witnesses are we going to call?" The people who know something." They called people and they had said it many months ago. Isn't that a plan? Doesn't it show a criminal organization? Doesn't he look like an orchestra? I would also remind you that Mr Ploris, a member of the Plenipotentiary Committee, has known long before the existence of the tape with the illegal recording of the Milonis-Pappa chat and, above all, the content of the conversation. I revealed it to the Preliminary Committee. That's not what I'm saying. It comes from Mr. Ploris's questions to Miones on 26-2-2020 in the Preliminary Committee, while the tape with the illegal transcript was sent by Miones to the Preliminary Committee a few months later. Mr. Ploris may be a good lawyer and an excellent lawman, but certainly no one can have the divine gift of insight and provide for what has a tape that we did not even know its existence, that the recording has taken place in Cyprus. And then we're talking about parastate and mafia methods that SYRIZA supposedly had? One thing can accuse SYRIZA of being good people at the point of naivety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u116	Are the others bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u117	So there is much more and much stronger evidence to prosecute my current prosecutors as a criminal organisation. But let's get to the issues one by one. Let us come to the Preliminary Committee for which Mr Bougas defended her work, he claimed that it worked within the framework of Article 86 of the Constitution. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as I will prove to you inconsistently then the majority of the Preliminary Committee consciously systematically violated the Constitution and the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The violations infinitely. I'll be enough. It has excluded completely from committee members SYRIZA, Janakopoulos and Polakis, pieces of this being done. He examined as witnesses in breach of Article 86 of the Constitution persons who knew absolutely nothing about the ‘NOVARTIS scandal’, had nothing to do with the ‘NOVARTIS scandal and filed other cases. The mandate you gave as a plenary was to investigate the possible construction of the NOVARTIS scandal, nothing else. This less is a misuse of power and proves the obsession and malignancy of some against me. I'm not saying that for myself. He pointed out their illegality to the Scientific Council of Parliament and then rushed and provoked the indictment to the detriment of me afterward, having taken statements illegally. Rule 86 has been well observed, Mr Buga and honourable Members, members of the majority of the Preliminary Committee. But that's not all. After the indictment was investigated against me, no one, but no one, was confined to the illegal and invalid statements they had already received before the indictment was extended, no one was collected, but no other evidence was just invited to explain. These are unprecedented things and they are dangerous to our democracy. They did not call essential witnesses to find the truth. I'm not talking about my defense witnesses, I'm talking about witnesses who came out of the process. Where they thought they were ruining the script they had made, they went further. They did not call on Mr Kalogerou and Mrs Papaspyrou, who was invoked by Mr Angelis. They were probably afraid they'd disguise it. They didn't even call my messenger, Mr. Samara. Think, ladies and gentlemen, and those of you who are not lawyers, if you file any complaints for the simplest offence, for the excitement made by your neighbour, the first one to be summoned will be you as a messenger, we will not go to the defendant. It would be interesting, of course, if Mr. Samaras were here. Well, I'm not saying rejecting my request for a stand-alone examination, in their hand it was, you all understand why they didn't. I won't take your time or my time for things to be obvious. I cannot, however, comment on it. It would be interesting to explain to the committee my dealer, Mr Samaras, his assertion that I targeted him with Tsipras to fade him in the light of the Prespecies Agreement. Tie Mr. Samaras' lawsuit and disprove me. But what to deny me, I haven't told any lies in my life, I always tell the truth, and I pay her. I would remind you, however, that the case of Mr Samaras, who I set up with Tsipras to fade him on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement, has been archived a long time ago. In the near future, we will see the circumstances and the reason for the archiving. The New Democracy has been ruling for a year, but Mr. Samaras remains impaled for the Prespecies Agreement. They didn't call any prosecutors. I move on to the indicative and minimal illegality of the Preliminary Committee. If he had done this, he'd have been kicked out of this House. Although, lately, I've been seeing a great deal of leniency in the field of justice. Instead of being persecuted, rewarded, and persecuted, those who must be rewarded. Upstairs you've brought. That's what I'm admitting. They did not invite any prosecutor or journalist whose name was mentioned in the work of the committee. It is obvious that here too, they feared that their statements would be complete expropriatory to me. I challenged the majority of the committee to call all judges and prosecutors throughout Greece - I even offered to cover the cost of telephone calls - and ask them two questions if I ever bothered anyone on any matter and if they had ever heard anything about a Rasputin. They gave me 11 days to study and prepare my defence for two hundred and thirty-three thousand pages of file. Anyone who does not know or has not heard that I have said this once again to Ocalan in Turkey, when we had handed him over, for seventeen thousand pages of courtesy gave him fourteen days and even in a case that you understand the national sensitivity of the Turks in the face of Kurdistan, etc. So I repeat that they gave him fourteen days to prepare and study seventeen thousand pages. Turkey, however, was condemned by the European courts, because the two-week period was considered insufficient to prepare a defence for a case-file of seventeen thousand pages. That's not all. During my statements to the Preliminary Committee thousands of new documents were added and I was not given, although I asked for it, one day to study the new documents. When I became aware of the compromise agreement between the United States judicial authorities and NOVARTIS, I asked for a supplementary statement following such a serious development and my request was rejected. I submitted a request for the annulment of the procedure to the competent judicial board in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the majority of the Preliminary Committee illegally refused to forward it to the judicial authorities. Before I came in here, my lawyer called and told me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u118	The basic news is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u119	Two minutes before entering the room, I was informed by my lawyers that the prosecutor I requested to find protection sent it over and said that he doesn't have competence and it's yours...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u120	For the suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u121	...to propose to see if you kept the least trace of legality in my case. After that maybe I should leave now and say a preconceived decision you have, but I'm a romantic man, and besides a romantic person I believe in historical truth, as I told you. At least to record, to read Greeks in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u122	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u123	The President of the Preliminary Committee, Mr Buga, thought him to be a decent man, and I want to believe he was, I hadn't been wrong, but he overturned me. In a public statement a few days ago, he referred to my case, to crimes committed, before even prosecuting me. The committee's responsibility and yours, Mr President of the Preliminary Committee, is to investigate - which you have not done - and, in any case, to draw up a finding which you are proposing to me or which is not criminally prosecuted. You're not a judge, Mr. President. You won't condemn me. Just with such statements and like Mr. Tsiara and Mr. Petsa, Mr. Gerapitri, who have occasionally been made, it is confirmed that you have acted as an emergency court of law against me... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Not as an emergency, it's the wrong expression, as a defendant court, not even a court with Greek domicile judges, but directly with Nazi officers! And one last. I was informed by the press that Mrs Auger - to see how the Preliminary Committee worked - asked a question, asked, and asked if any articles were in force for three of the Preliminary Committee members. I will not refer to the names. I will only say that one is involved in a forgery case, the other is related to "NOVARTIS" and the other has had close contacts with a prostitution leader, etc. That's what the House's going to look into. The question will be answered to Mrs Auger. It is neither my concern nor my concern, although it is my concern, because if these are the case, the existence of such members in a Preliminary Committee shows who have investigated me, except Mr Ploiros, who was also Mr Samaras' lawyer, but that is why I shall refer to this matter. So I am not interested in this, and I would not mention it at all in my speech. But I read in the press that Mrs Auger was threatened by another member of the Preliminary Committee on a television broadcast. And not only that, after they left, he called her and said "for whatever you have to do, it won't be my fault". What I said before to degenerate democracy is confirmed! I would like to believe that the man who threatened Mrs Auger, in this messy and dangerous way of our democratic city, has nothing to do with the three Members mentioned in Mrs Auger's question. Now let's go talk about the US-NOVARTIS agreement. As I told you before, the majority of my Preliminary Committee illegally deprived me of the right to appear before it and to state my views on the United States judicial conciliation agreement and 'NOVARTIS'. I therefore have to refer to this agreement for a very short time. This agreement is the first charismatic shot. The second and final is the finding of Lambros Sofalakis, in the cover-up of the "NOVARTIS" scandal. Do those who dared to claim that the United States and NOVARTIS compromise do not concern political persons, that they underestimate the intelligence of the Greek people? NoVARTIS agreed to pay the largest fine imposed in history by the US authorities. It was a fine of EUR 310 million and accepted - I will read to you the text of the official translation - that, with corrupt acts, NOVARTIS has influenced the acts and decisions of officials in their official capacity, in order, among other things, to use their influence before or within the Greek Government and its agencies and bodies in order to influence acts and decisions. And it concludes ‘in breach of Article 15 U.S.C., paragraph 78d -3’. First of all, this article refers to political persons. This alone would suffice to say that it concerns doctors, but how can you believe that NOVARTIS has only paid 310 million for bribery for doctors, nurses and nurses? Really, how much influence did doctors and nurses have before or within the Greek government? In fact, how could doctors and nurses guarantee scandalously favourable treatment by the Greek Government, as described in the agreement with NoVARTIS? How could doctors and nurses ensure overpriceds, great prices in Greece, which at the same time ensure prices too high for NOVARTIS medicines and foreign countries? The text of the official translation I read to you - and you have all read it, I imagine - does not allow any misinterpretation. NOVARTIS paid 310 million for admitting to bribing politicians. Whatever you say, no matter how much you falsify the truth, no matter how distorting the reality, no matter how much the systemic media are, it's the truth! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you know? Today I will add something else that I thought about by studying the case-file. So let us stand in three words of the agreement, only three words! In the word ‘official’, referring to the status of officials and to the words ‘in front’ and ‘inside’ referred to the government. So I ask every good instrument of Greek this. Who have the official status of appearing or being in the government, i.e. taking part in the cabinet? Doctors and nurses or ministers? Particular and revealing importance and fully in line with what I have put forward for the "NOVARTIS" bribes, have the following passages from Mr. Froze's speeches, what he alleged to have made political bribes to NOVARTIS executives in an earlier and suspicious time. These extracts have been caught by the Swiss TV video reported in the "NOVARTIS" scandal in Greece. So Mr. Frozis says: I don't add, I don't remove a party. What does it say to 'NOVARTIS' executives, and Mr. Guardis, for his great successes? He's said this before the deal, before the scandal explodes, before Toulupaki, before my construction. He says: "We are the first to know what will happen to the ministry." Really, a nurse would have sent in before he was there and he would have been listening. "They are the same people who take the decisions, who inform us before making the decisions." Doctors and nurses at the General Assembly of Hospitals? We have another creepy confession in the same paragraph. "They inform us of their next steps and in this way we can influence them in advance, the second important part we have achieved by exerting pressure" and it says "by pressing we have managed to do that as well". And Mr. Guardis concludes how effective the government's influence on the profits of NOVARTIS was. "We go well, and as you can see, there is no need to announce it." Otherwise, the case is a well-deserved construction of Papagelopoulos, Tsipras, Toulupaki, Lappa, who presented me to the committee, Mr Janakopoulos, all SYRIZA Members who have spoken in favour of the truth, not in favour of Papagelopoulos. So let some continue to think of the Greek people as foolish and insist on baptizing the meat of fish, such as the nuns of the Middle Ages. I just remind you of their fellowships with the nuns, namely those who insist on baptizing fish meat. I would like to remind you of their fellow priests, who burned the opponents in the fire, which you are now trying to do and their attachment to the Middle Ages, that is, the time when some want to lead human rights and the political life of the country. If, however, the agreement of the United States-NOVARTIS judicial compromise was the graceful shot at the construction of my prosecutors to cover up the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, the findings of Mr Zechar and Mr Sofulaki were the 'practical act of death' of the construction at my expense. A few days ago, a criminal prosecution was brought against Mrs Toulupakis, according to Mr Zacharhi's conclusion. I will inform you - and the Greek people will hear it - that the prosecution against Mrs Toulupaki is illegal, completely illegal. When Mr. Zacharis drew up his findings, the investigation of Ms. Toulopakis and the assistant prosecutors Dzoura and Manolis had already been filed by Mr. Sofulakis, whose findings preceded Mr. Zacharis' findings. It's just legal, ladies and gentlemen. And the more it is legal, the more huge the illegality is being committed. In accordance with Article 43(6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in order to be exercised after the archiving by Mr Soufulakis, regarding the Toulopakis case, certain conditions should have been laid down in Article 43(6), as I have said before. In order to withdraw the case-file, the condition that new facts or facts justifying the re-examination of the case should be satisfied. I don't say it, the Code of Criminal Procedure says it. Furthermore, in this case, if new information had been disclosed to justify a review, Mrs Toulupakis had to be asked to provide further explanations. However, no new facts or evidence emerged - Mr Zacharis did not mention such - nor was there any withdrawal from Mr Zacharhes or from anyone else, nor was Mrs Toulupaki called for explanations after the archiving. No provision of criminal proceedings has been observed, but no provision has been made. But it's not the only illegality. I must point out that this is not the first time that complaints have been filed against Mrs Toulopakis. First and best of archiving, Mr Angelis, who rejected the complaints of the Members. Samara, Venizelou, Avramopoulos, and I don't know who else. Then, of course, he illegally withdrew them from the file, citing new facts, but they were already known since he filed them a long time ago. That's not what I'm saying. The Ice Bay Attorney has pointed this out to him since. Following on from my speech I shall refer more specifically to the illegal withdrawal of Mr Angelis, and I shall submit the relevant documents. For the time being, I would add that the withdrawal from Mr Angelis took place after the European elections and shortly before the 2019 national elections, when it was already certain that the New Democracy would win the national elections. That is why Mr Zacharas refers closely to his conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u124	Do you have the findings?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Flouris, you deprived me of it. I read the papers. Don't worry. What I'm saying is I got it from the papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u126	It's like you've read them...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Marcopoulou, don't mention what I'm reading in the papers. Because I shall refer to what I read about you and I do not want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u128	Don't have a dialogue. Mr. Papagelopoulos, how much time do you think you're going to need yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u129	I'll try to say a few important things. I'm gonna need another 20 minutes. Unless there are vacations and tensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u130	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u131	In addition to these two archives, however, there were three other disciplinary archives on the responsibilities of Ms. Toulupakis in the same case from three senior prosecutors and judges, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr. Gregory Pepponi and the Vice Presidents of the Ice Bay Mr. Chrysula Paraskevi and Maria Galani. So five archives for Mrs Toulupakis. However, a criminal prosecution has been brought against it in order to facilitate my own referral to the special court and not to collapse the construction to cover the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. May I remind you of the adjournment of the Court of Auditors and the decision of the Athens Court of Auditors, who have officially justified Toulupaki for its operations? All this has left the majority of the preliminary committee indifferent. He completely disregarded the findings of Sofulaki and Zecharis, although I asked for them to be taken into account and to receive knowledge. However, it had to be kept secret, both for me and for the members of the committee and for the whole of the Greek Members. The leaks in the Sunday press about the contents of the two findings explain why they should not see the light of the publicity of these two findings. Sofalaki's conclusion numbers two hundred and ten pages. It is an excellent legal text, with full reasoning. Prosecutors shall be relieved of all liability. Furthermore, it orders the search for criminal responsibilities for Riku for the offences of false witness and silence due to exception, but also for Mr. Angelis, for the offences of false witness and breach of duty. Mr Angelis clarifies that he acted for reasons of political feasibility - I told you in time, between the two elections, when it already seemed that the New Democracy is the next government - and for reasons of personal ambition. On the contrary, Mr Zecharis's conclusion to only sixty pages, as I read, repeats without adequate evaluation - what is the adequate evaluation to do on sixty pages for a case of two hundred thousand pages? - the allegations made by Mr Samaras and with inadequate or non-existent reasoning, archiving the case-file for the Members. Dziura and Manolis, but he orders criminal prosecution for Toulopakis. I'm asking. Is it ever possible for Toulupakis to commit what they charge without the assistance, synergy, of its prosecutors? As I told you, I have not been aware of the findings. My information comes from the press. When I study the findings, make sure I have a lot to say. For the time being, I would add that in a Sunday paper I read that Mr. Zecharis refers to the fact that he does not have anything to do with the 'NOVARTIS' case, it is from other cases and, in the most important interpretation, he has not read or understood the case. At this point, I would like to submit for the Practical texts that I have "fished" on the Internet, about the publication of the newspaper "AFAPHH" by the well-known Victoria Metropoulou, with which Mr Zacharis is blackmailed for a pink scandal. I will not mention anything more, because I do not want unwisely to reproduce such publications. Just take it into account. Because Mr. Zacharis has been blackmailed. I don't know if he succumbed. [[At this point Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] About the indictment... What indictment? The alleged indictment, the inexistent indictment, which refers to cross-references and conflicts between one another and one another, largely peaceable, of statements. These testimonies, therefore, are of Mioney, Angelis, Riku, Athanasios and Tsatani. It could be about them, not hours, but days. Their statements, however, are false, conflict, move into the sphere of absurdity. For Mr. Athanasios, I had a lot to say. First of all, if I are being prosecuted today, Mr Athanasios must join me in the special court as a partner, as a member of the criminal organization that was persecuted and blackmailed Miones, Papastavrous and Metaxas. I would remind you, with all conciseness, that Athanasios on 2-9-2015, i.e. before his trip to Paris of Prosecutors Zagora, Dzoura, Touloupaki, Kaloudi, to meet Faltsiani, who I allegedly sent to them on my own command to serve Tsipras, alone examined Mr. Papastavrou for the laundering of dirty money and tax evasion to the extent of a felony. Of these four prosecutors who met Faltsiani in Paris, the three, after his return, they were rewarded by Mr Athanasios and took them to his assistant's office in his own document and kept them while he was an economic prosecutor. These same prosecutors were ordered by Athanasios to do research in 2016 and a confiscation at Papastavros' home for the Panama Papers. These three prosecutors, Toulupaki, Dzoura and Kaloudi, sent them himself to Athanasios once again to meet Faltsiani to obtain more information and clarification. By order of Athanasios, a researcher of an international house, who shows, among other things, that Stavros Papastaurou is a shameless Israeli businessman, a businessman persecuted in his country, has been banned from exit and has been subjected to a trial, a businessman dealing with the smuggling of precious stones and doing strange, to suspicious jobs in northern Macedonia, former Skopje. Finally, Macedonian proves to be very profitable. If we remember the fall of the government of Constantine Mitsotakis in 1993 on the pretext of the Macedonian and Mitsotakis complaints about the real causes of the fall of his government, it may be confirmed that "the last refuge of the deceased is the patriocape". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If, then, what Athanasios testified that he supposedly had the three prosecutors' criminal group, he has secured a seat next to me at the special court stand as a member of the criminal organization that was persecuting and blackmailing Mioney and his friends and associates, Papastavrou and Metaxas. That's enough. I am not going to mention the visits to my office, nor did it give me as a deluge to renew his term of office the criminal prosecution against Sala and against Papachristos. I will not go into the table that he did to me some time before his term of office for so-called good cooperation and to ensure a third extension, although I said to him 'you can't go on for the third time, man'. I shall not mention that he systematically cheated on his service, cheated on Arios Igos, cheated on the Ministry, colleagues, and I don't know who else, saying that he is going to a conference abroad on a major issue, attended by prosecutors from all over the world, who had been murdered, and he preferred to flee and go to enjoy his holidays. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] Should I go back to the 'SIEMENS' case, which made terrible, dangerous for justice, the intentional leaks for Mrs Bakoyannis? The scavengers, of course, also took Kyriakos, the current Prime Minister, who had made Constantine Mitsotakis furious and how he begged me to intervene so that Mitsotakis would not report it? That's Mr. Athanasios! There's more. What should I start? I have to say some other important things. A few points now for Mr Miononis. As can be seen from his overall behaviour and his statements and the documents he has produced, this is a monster, a giant credibility. By April 2019 in the criminal organisation that was blackmailing him and chasing him, I had nothing to do with it at all. The Israeli judicial authorities - I had also tabled the relevant document the previous time I had spoken before you - denounced, as leader of the criminal organisation, Mr. Maki Voridis and as members of Philippakis, Tarkas, Papadakou and others. He made special reference to this document and Mr Thanos Ploris and to his Nazi, anti-Semitism and his friendship and common course and action with Mr Vorides. I must admit that I have been tempted and I have not been able to endure - after all, as you know, the temptations are good - to confess to the interrogator you have decided to refer me to the fact that I have really succeeded Maki Voridis in the leadership of the criminal organisation that blackmails and pursues Mioney. It will have a terrible interest in sitting next to the special court - next to the Maki Voridis, Thanos Pilaris and the Prosecutor Panagiotis Athanasiou, who, as I said before, has much greater responsibility for the investigations against Mionis, Papastavrou, Metaxas from the other poor prosecutors you have troubled. But it will also be a global originality. Mr. Pilaris will remain in history as a three-seater, such as the Holy Trinity, without of course daring to think of him as a saint. He will at the same time be a lawyer from my lawyer, Mr. Samaras, who will represent the prosecutor against me and sit on the stand and as a defendant. A few more samples of the Mioney credibility. Today he claims that it is false reports that show him to manage with his companies and his associates 55% of total deposits, amounting to 2 billion, the list of great tax evasion, the Lagard list. But earlier, in 2012, in his homeland, in Israel, in Mr Calantzis from New Democracy and in Mrs Constantopoulou who had examined him as part of the Lagard review, he had admitted that he was the manager of 55% of the Lagard deposit. Listen to something I don't think she's driving me crazy so far. He testified to the Preliminary Committee that the Lagard list was my NoVARTIS rehearsal case. I would remind you that the Lagard list dealt with us in 2012 and perhaps even before, three years before I became Minister and three years after I was retired by the prosecutor. I set up the Lagard list, and it was the gianrale rehearsal for what I would set up later with "NOVARTIS". He strongly claims that I blackmailed him and asked him for money on behalf of Philippeke, whom I did not know at that time. Unfortunately, the Preliminary Committee adopts the nonsense of Mioney, which I just asked what would happen with Philippe's court expenses. My question was quite justified, because Mioney was vindicating that he had spent huge sums of money in England, where he chose to turn court against Philippe. The appeal to foreign courts against Greek journalists is common and effective, as can be seen, for Minonis's regularity to kneel and fade to those who are engaged with him and to his activities. He did the same with Papadakou. Apart from a monster of credibility, however, Mr. Mionis is also a great agent, 'IB agent'. He's recording illegally private conversations with people from whom he's asking for help and pretends he's their friend. Every resemblance to Mrs. Chatani and Mr. Jeno entirely symptomical. It then alters its content, as shown by private expertise, its own expertise. Of course, he was hurt to make it look like I was getting money, but it turns out I had nothing to do with it. He's threatening to have nine other tapes with illegally taped tapes. Saby Mioney with the illegal recording of his conversation with the Minister, Mr. Pappas, and then publicized the contents thereof, committed the crime of espionage. And I wonder why no prosecutor has dealt with this. I fully explained the Preliminary. Today, I say: He compromised the country's international relations and the financial interests of the Greek state. In the illegally recorded conversation, it refers to the telephone communications of Prime Minister Tsipras and Netanyahu. He's asking for information on FBI agents' names. Also, Mioney refers to other sensitive subjects. This puts Greece's relations with Israel, the United States and other countries at risk. It is a great responsibility for Mionis and his partners in Greece, who have helped him or tolerated the dangerous toys with his tapes. I would remind you that he had attempted to record both Mr Calantzis and Mrs Konstantopoulou in his examination in Israel. But Mrs. Constantopoulou understood it and removed the tape. Just a few things now for the witnesses. The Angel is the U.S. Attorney who filed the complaints, as I said, of Samaras, Venizelos, Avramopoulos at the expense of Toulouse and the Prosecutors Dziura and Manolis. In fact, at that time, the New Democracy and the PASOK had been accused of rejecting the approval. This is on 4 May 2018. I'm presenting for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's the same prosecutor who illegally withdrew from the file where he had filed these complaints. He withdrew it a few days, as I told you, before the elections in July 2019 and after the European elections, in which the difference between New Democracy and SYRIZA totally condemned the victory of the New Democracy in the national elections. There had already been the proposal to fill the vacant post of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, and Mr Angelis was not in there, of course, and there, as he said in his statements to the Preliminary Committee, he saw the signs, because he has learned - he says - to see the signs. Of course, he has learned to see the signs, he has done it for many years now, and he is dislocating accordingly what party comes to power. In order to justify the illegal withdrawal it allegedly invoked new evidence, but the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow points out in writing - when he took the withdrawal - that the newest evidence he invoked was already known many months ago. I also present this document with notes from Mrs Demetriou's own handwriting. [[At this point Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On December 15, 2018, ten days after his return from Vienna, where he refused to receive - illegally and this - important and critical data from the FBI, in informal but written briefing to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay does not mention at all anything about this incident, but mainly does not mention anything about 'Rasapotin', for me or for any interventions. Then there was no Rasputin. I am tabling this document in the Minutes too. [[At this point Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's not all. A month later, on January 7, 2019, when his refusal to receive information on the person involved in the “NOVARTIS” scandal was revealed, a perpetrator submits in writing his resignation without once again mentioning anything about me or Rasputin. I'm making this report, too. [[At this point Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Where's Rasputin, you guys? Just the sick fantasy, the morbid fantasy of Riku? His allegations, Mr Angelis, are disproved in their statements by Ms. Demetrius, Mr. Kalogeros and Mrs. Papaspyrou, former General Inspector of Public Administration, who he himself invoked the testimony. I don't need to bother you with Mr. Angel. After all, Mr Sofalaki's conclusion is enough to see what Mr Angelis has said. He's accusing him of violating his duty, not receiving information from the FBI, accuses him of lying witness and all of this for reasons of personal ambition and political purposes. For Mrs. Tsatani, what can we say? We've been through this a thousand times. It will simply remain for too many years as a champion in the speed of study, understanding and typing hundreds of pages, without even knowing from a computer, as she escaped from the Preliminary Committee. That's a new clue, I didn't know about it last time. He says he wrote eight hundred pages in seventy-two hours, and not to go, not to eat, not to sleep, not to open the window to get air, you don't have time to write so many pages, there's been a calculation. However, Mrs Tsatani did so and, as she escaped from the Preliminary Committee, she does not know about computers. I'm shoving! Mrs Tsatani sued her colleagues' circles for revealing her illegality. Of course, the claims were rejected. All prosecutors examined by the relevant disciplinary bodies, including, not least, the selectors of the New Democracy and the Change Movement, the Prosecutors Riku and the Angelis, have testified against it. They've testified against her. And finally, he was punished with an irrevocable disciplinary sentence. The late Vgenopoulos knew from the outset that he would file his case before Mrs. Chatanis archived it. She visited me on her own initiative, asked me for help, gave me her phone, told me to call, I did call her, and she returned the phone, although I was blackmailed. I'm going to say another thing I wasn't going to say. During the investigations of its complaints by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, or shortly before expiry, she visited me face to face with her environment and asked me to show understanding of her behaviour in my view and the matter of ending. And of course I told him what I always do, because I'm an idiot and a half. I assured him that I am not a vigilant and I am not going to deal with Mrs Tsatani. After three years, when the political situation changed, Mrs Chatani remembered coming to denounce me. With regard to the unprecedented display of cruelty by Mrs Chatani to the detriment of the defendant in the Batopedi case, who was finally released by an adjunct, I will tell you nothing else. Request information between New Democracy officials. There are many who are well aware of this sad story. What about Mrs. Ryuku? I must speak up to September that this House will reopen. He quit and didn't mention anything about me. He said he was persecuted by the drug scene, that he has identified political money, that he has been targeted by great interests in the drug field. For Rasputin, for me absolutely nothing. I'm filing her resignation letter. [[At this point Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Two days before she resigned, she's met with the prosecutor of the Ice Bay. The next day he's visited Contonis, and then he came to my office, but leave mine. He does not mention anything to him about me or Rasputin. So why did Mrs. Ryku resign? It wasn't targeted by the drug site. How should it be targeted, having been in collaboration with the drug site, as proved subsequently? The reason for her resignation was the complaints of another judiciary, an interrogator against corruption for its serious, suspected and illegal omissions, on a case of armaments involving Mr Papantoniou. So he resigned and represented the victim, but the victim of the drug companies, not the victim of the government. After she resigned, she maintained her relationships with me. He was calling me. Even at her own request we met and dine at home. I admitted it - he says - it was a random social event. And, as Mrs Demetrius said, "good, they're calling an prosecutor against corruption, and they don't tell him who's going to be at home? I was the Deputy Prosecutor and whoever called me "Do you mind being Mr. Lappas as well?" So she was summoned to me and they hadn't told her that I would be too. But the truth is different. She had asked us to meet and she had asked the friends who had made the table. We didn't meet once, he says, two or three. She was asking me to help her with her problems. After eighteen months, another procession of Ms. Ryku was revealed, that her husband had received a transfer from the "NOVARTIS" company with which she was cooperating. Then, of course, the bumped parrots - probably with the expectation of the buffet, why had they not started to sink - said "we, for a transfer of 1,000 euros"? But Mrs. Ryuku knew. And because he also knew the other activities, which were then revealed, he believed he would escape by targeting me, who until then asked me to help her, with the unscrupulous theory of Raspatin. Not to tell you why she's unbelievable, I've said it another time. For two whole years, cycles and regions of Ms. Ryuku broke through any lie Mrs. Ryuku believed at my expense that they would be able to escape her great responsibilities. After two and a half years, and after the change of government has taken place since July 23, 2019, in its second statement, not in the first, Mr. Sofulaki, it refers to "Raspotin" and says it's me, but it says that many others know it. But no one else has confirmed it. He then admitted with the many in the Preliminary that I had told her in 2005 once. Until then, he told us that all the prosecutors, all the judges, but no one was found to confirm it, not even Mr. Athanasios. So she goes to Mr Sofulakis and the first time, in her first statement, she forgets, she mentions Rasputin. Watch out for the absurd. Two years Greece has been dealing with its morbid fantasies about Rasputin and it is called by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Island, the supreme authority, about the issue of Rasputin and forgets to testify that Rasputin is me. Sure, he's back. She came out, she spoke on the phone with her commanders, they pulled her ear and said, "Well, didn't you say about Papagelopoulos?" Turn around.’ He came back after two hours. In her first statement, it's not the only lie. Watch out for her first statement on what she testified for me. Lies, of course, but be careful how she lies. So she says about the second phone call I made, because in the first time I didn't tell her anything, I only asked her if she had any political faces in the file. And that's where he lied, because he said he said he said no, while it turned out he had received documents from the US authorities referring to political persons. But leave this and notice for me what it says: "Some days later, he called me on my office's phone again the Deputy Minister of Justice, telling me in a pressing style: you still didn't send the file on "NOVARTIS" to the House. " He replied: "Minister, no evidence..." etc. And I said to her with anger: “You have been neglecting yourself. Send it and for the following others will take care of it." She said to me that "it's not this school" and I said to her: "Hold then and you'll see if your school's gonna do good." And before he could say anything, the connection was interrupted. That's what Mrs. Riku testified to the Supreme Public Prosecutor. On the way, however, when the New Democracy account began to collapse, I was Rasputin and I intervened, Mrs Ryku was ordered to improve her statement. And what did he say? That I told her to build evidence for politicians, and at another point she added that Tulopakis made this evidence by my command. He said that after two more years. Do you need any other proof that Mrs. Ryku is lying consciously? But it's not Riku's only perjury. Her testimonies to both Sofalaki and the Preliminary are full of lies. For example, when it was discovered that in her joint account with her husband there was no transfer, not a transfer, for which until then the expected bulb "pads" were said to be "good, for 1,000 euros now they are dealing with Ryku". - even the day before yesterday I heard that they said so - but three transfers, namely, a total of 5,000 euros, Mrs Ryku completely shamelessly said that the two additional transfers had been built by me and Toulupaki. Watch out, bank transfers were forged by Toulupaki and the Minister! Of course, then, when she understood, she admitted - maybe it was the next day, which would still eat her mistakes from her commanders, who would say 'what are you talking about?' - that yes, there were all three remittances, so we had not built them myself and Toulupaki, which with lightly the heart said that we built them myself and Toulopakis, admitted that there are the transfers, but she ignored them and that they were the rewards of her husband, but the contract that provided for the remuneration was destroyed because she had flooded her home. It's not just that lie. Without shame, she mixed up her children. He said he kicked them out of Greece because they were at risk from the terrorists that Papagelopoulos controls. Why don't you also make an enlargement for a leader of a criminal terrorist organization? Mrs Tsatani also suggested that I am sending terrorists. Where are you going, ladies and gentlemen? And believe her! So Mrs. Riku said she kicked her children out of Greece to America because she was afraid of the terrorists I'm controlling. Have I asked her in public several times, to clarify to us: have her children left after she broke up with me or had they gone many years ago? Because if they had gone to study many years ago, it's another big lie. I am the one who learns from fellow honest people, who tell me that Mrs. Riku's children were studying many years ago abroad before 2017. For Mrs Ryku, I could say too many, endless hours. I'll just confine myself to two, and I'll finish. Firstly, I would like to refer to the overregistration of her husband for food supplements even to advocates who pose a risk to their lives for these food supplements. Overwriting that caused damage to the Greek state of EUR 1.7 million. Overwriting which was not found by Mrs Toulupakis, as again falsely claimed Riku's environment that Toulupaki set it up, but by an independent health ministry audit authority, with Minister Kikilia and Government of New Democracy. Nevertheless, Toulupakis has set us up, Toulupaki has made the transfers, Toulupakis has set up the data! Oh, Tulopakis, Toulopakis, you're gonna eat wood, you messed up with the complexion and you thought you could survive in Greece today! But both Toulupaki and every honest prosecutor will survive. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to make a dedication, as radio stations have been saying in my own years, which is extremely dedicated to the Members of KINAL and, in particular, PASOK. In 2012, before the elections, Ms. Ryku organised a cruiser at Mr. Tsochazopoulou's house, which they arrested in front of the cameras, which were completely randomly present. Result? To shrink the PASOK and to benefit from the election of Mr Samaras, close to her friend. A lot more for Mrs. Ryku than I said and what I can say, I'll tell the interrogator or the special court that you'll send me, but there's also in Mr. Sofulaki's conclusion that you tried to keep a seven-sealed secret. But there is no hiding place under the sun. I won't give you any more time. I've reached the epilogue. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, you of the New Democracy, I would remind you that Article 51(2) of the Constitution expressly stipulates that the MPs represent the nation. Article 60(1) of the Constitution expressly stipulates that Members have unlimited right of opinion and vote. Therefore, your vote today in the following secret ballot must be conscientious and free of party intentions and balances. My reference to the special court procedure along with innocent prosecutors and journalists will be interpreted by the Greek people as an attempt to cover up the great scandals of "NOVARTIS", the tax evasion of the Lagard list, the Veneopoulos scandal and many more. It will also be interpreted as the granting of immunity to those responsible for the scandals and as the legalisation of the hatred. The word democracy is a composition of the words of a municipality, i.e. a people, and I hold it, i.e. I do. In democracy, the people dominate. If today, with your vote, you legalise the misassis, our people are not excluded, who maintains their appalling but poisonous intellectual heritage by Aristophanes and Suris, by any chance, to turn the word democracy into mitigation with similar transformation and in the name of your sidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Papagelopoulos. We are entering the list of speakers. Now Mr Charalambos Papademitriou has been speaking on behalf of the New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I realize you're probably a little tired, but I think you've watched exactly how people stepped on SYRIZA. The man who spoke before is, unfortunately, what you have seen - there is nothing more to do - a man who is led by a sense of knit, conspiracy and that "the state I can do as much as I want, as long as I can reach my own conclusions." It's a pity all these things happened. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are responsible for the fact that, for the so-called - or not, we will probably not learn from you - scandals from you who prevented their passage and their investigation are precisely the man who spoke before. And I think that, instead of speaking here for about an hour and a half, we have nothing more to do than to refer the case to the hands of the judges, to the hands of justice and with independence to judge the evidence and everything Mr Papagelopoulos has said. That's where the case has to go, and it has to go fast. If it had gone faster, things would have been much better and we would have had time for some other situations. I'm not going to reach the conclusion. If I was here in my professional capacity, I would soon have come to the conclusion and when I had come up with it, I said it. I said it in public. It's all because someone doesn't want to find out where the real problem is, when you go and choose people, your political opponents, and you try to shoot everything you can because it's not just the case that's being investigated here, it's a lot more. During the work of the Committee of Inquiry - and to thank colleagues for the very good work they have done, they have just given us a lot of work to read, but it was an excellent job - a series of cases have been revealed, in which Mr Papagelopoulos had not just exceeded the limits - which he knew very well that he should not get over - but, in a systematic way, I would say sadly that he was allowed to do so and do so, was trying to make assumptions from which he had no evidence, and there was not enough evidence to be able to rely. He pushed the prosecutors, pushed the investigators constantly to say things and take initiatives, which were neither resulting from the procedures provided for nor from a reasonable association. The concept of conspiracy is the great risk that populism brings to democracies, and I would mention one case for example. Reading from the Minutes, says here the witness, "You don't tell me" - tells him the previous speaker - "You don't tell me, at the expense of Papachristos, the journalist, do you have anything? I'm telling him, no, I don't. He tells me, don't you look at making something?" Shortly after the statements - I take them from the minutes of your committee - we read: 'Tell those who make him [control] that I will go out on the channels and say they have been grabbed by Vgenopoulos'. Those who control are the ladies who have sworn to carry out a check in accordance with the procedures of the law. The same man here says I don't have proof, but I'm sure they've been grabbed. This man doesn't need more to go to say the rest to justice, as far as we're concerned. When he says "how does that case of control" that he does to the big publisher's companies and "if it was done as quickly as possible, say, the audit procedure and his accounts were blocked and all that" could be excluded from the process, which was then under way, the licensing of the channels. It's all connected to each other. Don't lose through this cylon, to which Mr. Papagelopoulos tried to shoot us, the substance. They are all small stigmas that lead to a central conclusion: there was a plaiting, there was a conspiracy, it was entrusted to specific people, or Mr Papagelopoulos had offered himself - I do not know - the judges will find out. But it is certain that some knew it. Some knew that in front of Maximos, Mr. Papagelopoulos said that here we have the biggest scandal from the beginning of the history of the Greek nation. Some listened from inside when they said it and knew - because five minutes before they were in there - about how he had drunk all these cases, all the things that have largely been broken down and will soon be completely broken down with the other procedures. I think that democracy will win a lot and I wish the people could not have any more problems - and we have too much - and in detail what is happening. I advise SYRIZA colleagues on the book "The beginnings of totalitarianism", a book written by Hannah Arent in 1950 and especially the subject of totalitarianism is enlightening. Find out, you won't get hurt. You will then be able to go to another book, 'How democracies die'. After that, I think you will have plenty of time to understand that populism, trust in people who have the conspiracy within the government, within the Maximos Mansion, in justice, by extortion and all that was the worst thing you have done and for which you will have the opportunity, when the trial is over, to apologize. It won't be too late. We can wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u134	I will now give the floor to the Secretary of the Central Commission and to the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsouba. Mrs Auger will then take the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u135	We know that you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, with today's debate in the House, would just like to write another episode in your controversy about the well-known NOVARTIS Syridal. Logic, this is how the bipartite game has been played for many years now and you, of course, could not be an exception. Even when confrontation escapes from scandals, it focuses on those issues that allow you to cover your identification in strategies, in critical, that is to say, those that ultimately define the lives of our people. See, for example, the decisions of the Recovery Fund yesterday. You are fighting about the level of the package for Greece, to hide in what terms this package is given, but who will eventually be fruited, to hide the most important thing, that the European Union remains deeply hostile to the people, such as hostile to the peoples, is all the camps, the various camps, of its urban states. The decisions of the Summit themselves outline how the Recovery Fund operates, which contains new terms and measures at the expense of workers and, on the other hand, a large sum of money to business groups, part of which will be directed towards further promoting unacceptable flexibility in the labour market. You are telling us that the European Union's missions do not need to impose memos. Yes, sir. However, you do not say that the framework set by the European Union itself, like the new supervisory mechanisms, with which you have all agreed, is carabine memoranda and, in fact, without an end date. The new package for which you are evicted, because it is - as you say - the largest that has ever been given, is neither a donation nor a loan nor a fierce one. It is a new nipple on the neck of the people, who will be invited to pay them both by increasing taxation and by reducing social costs in education, health and welfare. Because, as your partners will remind you, there is no free meal in the European Union. That is right, because in order to feed the profitability of big capital, our people have already paid a lot. Only now, with his struggle, he must say he will not pay again the brokens of the new economic capitalist crisis. To come to the other theme of one of you cowards, which is only done to hide your strategic shocks. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest dangerous developments with Navtex in Turkey confirm that Turkish aggression is step by step. Only to hide from the people that yesterday's escalation step, one day after the summit of the European Union, proves once again that your infamous allies - the European Union, the United States of America, NATO - all they do is wash their hands in front of the Turkish Government's attitude by promoting, of course, their own plans at the expense of the people. In fact, the State Department's statement on questionable waters in the area of Turkish Navtex is not only challenging, but also shows the United States' real intentions to impose a co-management regime. Both you, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, and you SYRIZA gentlemen, flagged your foreign policy into the strategic agreement with the US, handing over the whole country or American bases on the pretext and protection from Turkey supposedly. As a result, you received statements of disputed water from your allies. That is why you are accountable to the Greek people. You can't be trusted. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of any decision taken by the House and the further judicial course in the case we are debating today, it is certain that today the curtain of the parliamentary procedure is falling, about the NOVARTIS scandal, a procedure that lasted for three years and we have, in fact, lived in two versions. The first version was the establishment of a pre-review committee to investigate the involvement of political persons in this scandal, set up in the previous House with the parliamentary majority of SYRIZA - ANEL. The second version was the setting up of a pre-review committee to investigate the role of Mr Papagelopoulos in this particular case, which was set up in this House with the parliamentary majority of the New Democracy. What is strange in the whole process, seemingly strange, but for us all logical and explanation: While the two versions of the NOVARTIS scandal appear to be opposing one another, since the first was supposed to investigate criminal responsibilities of political people and the second one allegedly to the detriment of these people, they actually both had some critical common features. What are these common features? Firstly, both of us and the New Democracy and SYRIZA, have been helped in a two-party, micro-group confrontation with the help of KINAL. This controversy has increasingly been removed from the actual investigation into the essential aspects of the scandal, a scandal which is nothing but the commercialisation of health and medicine, which all governments have consistently served. The New Democracy and the KINAL have been obsessed with the construction, although there has been evidence of "NOVARTIS" contacts with persons who, if anything, have touched or had a relationship with political and judicial authority. SYRIZA spoke of a new regiment, this time at his expense, even resurrecting the far now in 1989, in order to appear in this way as the new Iphigenia of Social Democracy, the new one, as he claims, PASOK, a sinner, that is to say, unspeakable, in what we say, social democracy, which in any case has taken the main role of her in recent years. And all of this, in view of a peculiarity among you, took place at the time that the extrajudicial compromise signed by the 'NOVARTIS' in the United States of America was the most tragediest admission to the existence of the scandal, which, of course, is neither original nor exception to the pharmaceutical industry. On the contrary, it was revealed precisely because of the enormous competition between American and European monopolies in order to acquire larger shares in the world market, as has been the case at times with other colossians. With these well-known deals between states and big companies, everyone stays happy, since the scandal stays in the foam and NOVARTIS with a symbolic for the price's sizes, continues undisturbed to do its jobs. Have we ever seen this show in Greece again? With the well-known 'SIEMENS' scandal, which New Democracy and PASOK had then signed the well-known extrajudicial compromise, and then SYRIZA arrived and implemented it well. We have seen this laughing: Since the agreement of the U.S. extrajudicial compromise - NOVARTIS, both New Democracy and KINAL and SYRIZA have tried to make themselves known, playing with words and interpreting the agreement in their own way. In fact, however, with the well-known disorientated and vulgar at the same time dog fight, they tried to cover up the boulder that emerges from the various passes - give with big businessmen, take - give them all the governments, of course. Most of all, however, they tried to hide the cynical and raw reality, that through such agreements, the immunity and speculation of large companies is legalised, in this case at the expense of the most important and valuable good that is the health of the people. The reason for your allergy is obvious. All governments - New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA - have consistently served the policy of trade in health and medicine, placing on the backs of insured persons and patients any cuts in public expenditure. The results of this policy are being experienced with great intensity today in conditions of pandemic, in which the Greek people and the people of the world are at the mercy of international competition, trade wars, businessmen, speculators, health and drug. The results of this policy are, of course, experienced today by the private health sector, this earthly god of the free market, not only has he shown his parasitic but also his numerously harmful and dangerous character and role. Ladies and gentlemen, all your common elements were your commitment to the unacceptable law on the responsibility of Ministers which, while the JRC at both stages of the constitutional review insisted on its complete abolition, you, New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL, retained it, proposing some minor improvements, but leaving the substance of this law to the unavoidable, namely that judicial investigation and prosecution for Ministers and former ministers is determined by the respective parliamentary and political relation. Responsibility is now all yours, because especially the experience of this period has shown and demonstrated more the contradictions, the very dead ends of this law. So stop this glorious theatre depending on whether you are in the position of the defendant or the prosecutor to complain of irregularities and to use the procedures from every single government majority in a way that serves its political objectives. Do you not know these when all of you, New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL, rejected the JRC's proposal for a complete abolition of Article 86 of the Constitution so that there is no basis for these political games? Do you not know that when a parliamentary committee, a political body, carries out interrogative tasks on which the prosecution of ministers for possible offences depends, this will be subject to the respective political parliamentary ties, with all the repercussions known now? This dual role of the committee as political and at the same time an interrogative body is also created by a number of contradictions in its operation with the endless meetings on both sides' proposals to exclude members of the committee on various pre-formative grounds, but also by various pre-eminences of witnesses, with a view not to seeking real truth, but to creating the one intended at every stage of climate. The investigation of the case was thus hampered by the selective mission to the Committee of Critical Documents concerning the NOVARTIS case withheld by the prosecutor under the pretext of confidentiality. What conclusions will the committee draw, ignorant not only of the contents of basic documents, but even of a number of information and interventions that seem to have been exchanged between American and Greek authorities in every possible way and with the direct involvement of the American factor, procedures that do not remind of any legal assistance, but rather refer to other types of suspect, more operative - I would say - procedures, with various other such propositions? The maintenance of this disorientative game, of course, also contributed to the new incident by making known recorded conversations public. We as a Communist Party of Greece will never legalise the use of such evidence, as SYRIZA did with Mr. Papagelopoulos, who has established their use for a period of time and now represents the victim. Of course, if there is something that is not questioned by any of you, nor by Mr Papapa and, of course, by the New Democracy, it is the various bazaars of government with great entrepreneurs, which include even transnational agreements with your various imperialist friends, in this case with the State of Israel, since the recorded meetings were made on the order of Netanyahu, as they say. His name is Bebe. This attitude of principle has also been taken on the issue of so-called protected witnesses, where there has been another collusion between you. New Democracy and KINAL were left in statements that they would pull the hoods, and SYRIZA keeps the banner in support of the hood in total contrast with what was right earlier, when it was opposition, for "a highly dangerous institution" - your own words, gentlemen of SYRIZA - "incompatible with basic democratic rights". Finally, you have used the institution as long as you were government and you are defending it with those who have introduced the hood and are now complaining about its consequences. Your third common feature is the responsibility you share for the situation in the field of justice. As a party, we do not maintain the slightest delusion that interventions are carried out by the government and by the work of justice. This is not a new phenomenon. These interventions are of sufficient, chronic and concern to cases relating to strong economic and business interests or to a more general political interest. Moreover, the divisions of senior judiciaries for groupings and different kinds of services, threats and extortion, as well as covering them in the name allegedly of protecting the prestige of justice, were revealing even sad. And all this in the highest levels of justice. Of course, these are the result when a justice is created and maintained that is geared towards the service of some of the major business interests. After all, you do not specifically hide that orientation from him. When its leadership is determined by the current governmental majority, you are also actually giving formal legitimacy to make these interventions in justice. The ties are objectively created and the Minister concerned is given the opportunity to put pressure on and intervene with judicial officers. All governments took advantage of this process. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. In fact, have you not all refused, gentlemen of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, even this proposal of the JRC in the Constitutional Review of electing the leadership of justice from a broader elitist body and not designated by the respective government? You are not entitled, then, to act as a resident for a situation that you yourself maintain. The same is true of what, in our view, is very serious and also concerns the tragedy in Matti, but also the great fires in Kythira and Mani. You are not entitled to act as a stranger for what appears to be happening in the Fire Corps. When we talk about the Fire Corps, we're talking about a part of the state mechanism that is responsible for protecting the life, the property of the people. It is truly shocking for those who have experienced the tragic consequences of a fire to hear that officials of the Fire Corps are putting human life on second fate in front of them. But you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, do not have the right to appear shocked, because some of these executives "are touching" and to the party of the New Democracy Government and the SYRIZA's opposition officer. We won't start by saying that everything needs to be investigated. The most important thing is for the Greek people not only to know what really happened at those tragic times, but above all, to take all the necessary steps to prevent such tragic incidents being repeated in the future, except that none of you is moving in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first time the JRC was set up to investigate any criminal responsibilities of the former Deputy Minister of Justice, the JRC has wanted, with its participation, to contribute to the effective investigation of the case and of what was played around the NOVARTIS case, although the more repetitive negative experience of such committees did not give us much hope for the success of the project, as is ultimately confirmed. We have also made it clear to you from the very beginning that we will not legitimise with our participation procedures leading to a hood, cover-up, disorientation. In addition, we held the same attitude during the initial formation of the respective committee in 2018 by the majority of SYRIZA, when the case was closed under the pretext of alleged lack of competence. So it is already known that the JRC will not legalise all these toys and the attempt to cover up either the drug scandal or the manipulation of justice, which is why we will not participate in the voting process. We will, however, continue to inform the people of the real facts and, above all, we will continue to fight to eliminate all these causes of scandals, the complexity, in the end, the deep sepsis of this system and of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuba. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mrs Auger has the floor and will be followed by Mr Kotsiras on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, a scandal has never dealt with the country's public life so much as the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. And that happened because there has never been such a persistent and widespread attempt to cover it, for which it has been covered, put into operation and maintained an incredible mechanism, so that the scandal ceases to be scandalous, the prosecutors' investigations will cease to be cheap, so that the controlled and accused can be converted into honorers and prosecutors. And let these responsible ones do not understand the translation of the ‘NOVARTIS compromise’ with the US public and the confession of political price manipulation of medicines by the governments 2012-2015, with the bribes of state officials on the co-government of New Democracy and PASOK. And all this because? To stop those involved being involved, to get out of the news candle in every way. That mechanism was set up by the New Democracy and its paratroopers. But it is now clear that the size of this institutional diversion once again carried out by the right side of the country and this cannot be concealed by the Greek people. What we say here is officially recorded and not illegally recorded and printed in the past. Because the House, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not a parastate. In this House some have tried to play a role in the para-state to burn the "NOVARTIS scandal". And today we're really not just going to break the New Democracy's finding on the famous Papagelopoulos case. We will demonstrate that every attempt to manipulate justice, every method of covertness and misleading, every institutional diversion is doomed to fall into the void. Wherever the New Democracy chooses to fall, it will only be followed by its conclusion, not democratic consciences and not by the truth. The truth we are talking about today is not in the New Democracy account. It is in its actions concerning a scandal that remains open and which justice continues to investigate and the New Democracy is being investigated against its will. It is in the unprecedented attack carried out under the responsibility of the current government on justice and its institutions. The majority in the pre-examination committee took up a role of prosecutor to examine alleged interventions by a former SYRIZA Minister in justice. And what did he do? The majority of them managed first of all to draw the public prosecutor's conclusion and then the so-called revealing evidence and natural perpetrators well after a celebration. He managed to threaten the protected witnesses of the ‘NOVARTIS’ scandal. He managed to leak classified pre-examination material to a private person to illegally use it in a case unrelated to the "NOVARTIS" scandal and in excess of the original proposal of the Parliamentary Assembly. He managed to erod with this I want the committee itself, excluding members of a minority by methods mentioned by my fellow Members. He managed to forbid the controlled person from suggesting witnesses to investigate the truth. If the New Democracy was a real prosecutor, with all that it did, it would now be prosecuted for misuse of power and breach of duty. Because that is what has been done in the pre-review committee, and that is why it is proving that the violation of the institutions is New Democracy. We are living in a historic time, where a Minister asks publicly from a television studio the imprisonment of the judiciary who controls him and a few weeks later this minister, Mrs Toulupaki, is indicted. I do not know whether there has been greater and more provocative political intervention in the work of justice in the history of the Greek state. And I say this, because all the scene you set up, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy in the pre-examination committee, was expressed in your alleged agony and in your alleged abhorrence for an alleged intervention by a SYRIZA Minister in justice, but never proved by the witnesses you claim, exposing themselves and their office. In conclusion, there is not in time what has been done with Mrs Toulupakis, to control it two anti-institutional prosecutors, one to relieve it with a thoroughly multi-page conclusion and the other, again a celebration, to find evidence of guilt, by making the Samara suite and the government majority of course to choose the reference that suits it, the finding and, of course, the witnesses who suit it. Really, how did you get the Guardian of "NOVARTIS" right? How did you manage to get out of the candrobe the responsibilities of your 2012-2015 coup d'état, for which the Americans imposed $310 million fines on 'NOVARTIS'? How did you get the politicians that are still in control out of the castle? Novartis, however you want to hide it, is a scandal, a huge scandal in our country. And the only construction here is the attempt of the New Democracy to "NOVARTIS" to make a message to the protected witnesses not to ever again dare to cooperate with independent justice in corruption cases, a message to judiciary officials not to think of putting them with involved politicians, a message to journalists, not these journalists returned to them - so from whom - corrected their reportage - an anthem to "NOVARTIS", but a message to independent journalists that if they are looking for the truth, if they reveal corruption practices, the paths of black political money, the perpetrators political or judiciary, the Lagard lists will also be found in the defendant's place. But you should know that for these journalists, independent journalists, the charges you're addressing them are a merchandise. And, of course, a message, an eye closure, to a willing part of the political world that there will be nothing to fear for those scandals that grind their hands. Because this system, as it has operated and operates in the new Republic, will launder their sins for itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u138	Mrs. Aeger, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u139	I will end in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u140	Make an effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u141	It is not the strength of politics in democracy and in the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. It is the imposition of a system of inter-terrorism and inter-corruption that demonstrates its power, thinking of a electoral result as a white cheque. It's the construction. It is the abundance of justice and democracy by a party who knows to send his political opponents to special courts, but who never learned to answer. And I close, Mr President, with the common conviction of the progressive world that as long as political time is available, the purpose of the New Democracy is to set up its own private state and its trans-national methods to send another message this time to the citizens by saying 'Everyone is the same'. In this way, it seeks to crush the image of the truth while persecuting those seeking it. But no matter how much you want, we're not the same, because SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is in society, where the lie cannot crush the truth. And in the name of this society, we come and come back here as many times as we need to be justified in our conscience and in the minds of those who know how to separate the truth from lying. Greece, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, will again become the rule of law and will be Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u142	In time we must all be the same. We won't be in politics. Mr. Kotsira has the floor. After Mr. Kotsira, Mrs. Likoli will speak. Everyone will be tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today this House is discussing at a very important meeting the findings of the special parliamentary committee set up by a decision of the Greek Parliament to investigate the offences committed by the former Deputy Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, whether or not the proposal to prosecute the former Minister was accepted. This is a product of multi-month meetings and work. Too many witnesses and documents were examined. On this occasion, I would also like to congratulate the Bureau on the excellent work of the meetings, and also all the members of the Committee of Inquiry which contributed to this conclusion. The committee's sole objective was to seek the truth, under the Constitution, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. And what was previously heard even as a likeness of the occupying courts or Nazi officials, you know, is very insulting, regardless of the differences that may govern us for the role of the Greek MP, the Greek Parliament and the culture. We are therefore called today for a decision on democracy and the defences which democracy must have in the face of situations which undermine its fundamental principles. What separates modern democracies is the functioning of institutions within the rule of law, with the aim of respecting human rights and the independence of justice. In the free societies, governments do not seek the insights of power that they must control, but respect the independence of the other powers and, in particular, of justice which is the refuge of the citizen and the guarantee that it will not be wronged. The indiscriminate administration of justice by independent judicial officers is an essential condition for ensuring social peace and for attempting to eliminate political opponents and manipulate the independence of justice have no place in the country that gave birth to democracy. They have no place in any democracy. They have no place in any democracy images of former prime ministers hanging in the handkerchiefs, apologising for allegations without any clues, just to serve small-party purposes. And we hear about unity and unity, and we all agree, but this is where ten polls were set for political persons, among whom two former prime ministers, who put 'plate' in Greece, and we should be talking about unity and unity, having this picture in mind and not the investigations of a committee after ten months of work. This case therefore largely touches the core of our democratic culture, namely the independence of justice, the separation of powers and justice emanating from the Constitution. For many months we have been doing a search with respect for everyone's rights, the presumption of innocence, the principles of criminal trial, solely in search of truth. And at the end of this legally correct procedure, serious evidence emerged of the conduct of specific criminal collar acts, which were described in detail in the finding and analysed by the majority rapporteur in the morning. For other proposed offences no evidence was found and the prosecution was not proposed. There have therefore been serious indications of the existence of a structured operation aimed at the illegal and anti-institutional guidance of justice and the targeting of political opponents and natural persons. There were serious indications of pressures on public prosecutors, according to statements made by themselves to handle cases in the desired way, having taken care of those positions that could have an unfair influence, pressures to send the file on political persons in the House without the prosecutor handling the case itself having evidence, expulsion of prosecutors on resignation, exposure to innocent persons on grounds of political exploitation, use and exploitation of publications targeting public prosecutors who were not disciplined, disciplinary action then extinguish their resignation and exodus if they were not disciplined by the money they had previously received. There is therefore the subject of serious criminal offences for an unauthorised anti-institutional function with a specific methodology which top-level prosecutors, active public prosecutors, denounce. These indications also relate, in a key role, to the institutions of the State whose legal direction should be different and not to reform power as a State institution for other purposes of microparticipatory exploitation. It is clear, therefore, that in the face of cycling phenomena of the institutions, the media, the justice system itself, democracy must in no way remain unprotected. Clearance coming from research is part of respect for democracy, the separation of powers and the rule of law. And justice will be called, if there is a vote by the House, to assess the data and seek evidence in full truth, and I am sure that the conclusion of the pre-review committee will be an important element in its assessment, with respect for the law procedure and the presumption of innocence. But the truth that will arise will be the result of an institutional process which results in justice and judicial review and not a result of threats of pressured witnesses, political persecution and a distortion of the separation of powers. Our will is "all in light", not to hide them, not to cover them up, because this message must also be sent to the Greek people. And I am tempted to refer to the media, because I have also listened to Mrs Auger, who referred to this earlier. For a few days now there has been a post of "KATHMERINI" which you who are protecting the media are trying not to mention it at all, not to mention it, to forget, not to mention it, not to mention the Eye, not to mention anything. This is a hood and, unfortunately, it leads to shameful curiouss about democracy and curiouss about the political world and about the image society has in us. So these are not forgotten. Eye can't be forgotten. The issues that exist must be assessed and put in the public debate, and from there on, society itself assesses. So all in light and society has the full criterion to assess the data that comes before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Kotsira. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement and Mr Keletsis follows from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the political scene is not at all neutral. It is true that a critical situation is taking shape in the Aegean, at the heart of the new Turkish challenge, for which all we have to say today is homogeneous and united and unanimous that we are ready to deal with it and we are firm in our position to defend the country's sovereign rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate today is taking place at another level, not at a neutral political time, as we are in a political flaw. We are experiencing an unprecedented situation in the country, shops and gamblers, presses, shops in a godfather, White House, a ring with judges, businessmen, journalists, intervention at all levels, market behavior, vulgar speech and vulgar expressions, and I denounce it from the Step of the Parliament. We, at least the new Members, have a duty towards parliamentism to say'suffer' and we have now been sworn down by a Member of the Civilian Staff and I have not seen the condemnation yet by the parliamentary group and by your President and because of the excitement to the Change Movement Parliament's parliamentary group. What right, gentlemen, do you move the finger? You're the one who moves the finger that's become a storm now? Storm and winds are soaring and you also reap. Revelations shocking we have lived all these months on the pre-review committee, things that we have rubbed our eyes. Twenty-six years of lawyers had never seen judges talk about their lives, not about integrity, which they were asked to pass. And are you still talking and waving the finger on us? At least. So you are not entitled to do all these things. Finally, we invite you to come together and understand where you are. In Parliament which not only produces politics, but at the same time trains citizens and people, trains them with that logic, so it gives its light to the world. I don't want to talk about the shocking revelations of the last 24 hours that have to do with Matty. I'm over human beings, I can't do that, I'm just as shocked as a human being. Find the things between you, but self-clearing is a political act and a political act that can help modern political formations move rather than hide behind the finger that you move us. Ladies and gentlemen, in February 2018, when the file with the ten politicians who were conducting bribes in the "NOVARTIS" scandal was reached in Parliament, I was then watching it closely. It was a political thriller, which started with all the characteristics of the species. Suspects were washed, tightly wrapped on paper headlines by people who proved to have nothing to do with what they were accused of, entered the castle without any proof of politicians who most served the country in difficult times, and fought for democracy and parliamentaryism. The system, that system, your system, surrounded as a traveling triumph a dozen political persons passing through them as the main meal of news and at the same time on the political butcher's bench cut them off track every day and then tossed it to the trained vows that just smelled blood and ate it. And of course, my view of what I watched is that in the end the biggest part wanted to carry an ant, but it just didn't catch it, it was a juncture. It was when we watched images of devastated politicians and over-aged people I remember in Parliament trying to be shocked to say: 'We have no position, we have no involvement and no attitude toward the NOVARTIS scandal'. However, no one has in the end revealed this scandal which in any case is being cut so much, but has been firmly left in the dark. Destroyed people, looted politicians who will always carry the evidence, the shameful experience of targeted political persecution was the result. It was at the same time, however, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that outside the Maximos Concert Hall, "White House" for the indignant statement by previous President Papagelopoulos that this was the biggest scandal in the Greek state. That is what Mr Papagelopoulos told us today. Mr. Papagelopoulos, with the famous alias 'Raspoutin'. And I cannot go into the temptation and say it, ladies and gentlemen, infamous and shocking, because who truly served a minister of justice and then a Minister of Justice identifys himself with a deviled nun? Tell me the truth who? The follow-up to the story we lived in the pre-examination committee. Strict moments, what can I say in five minutes, Mr President, and what can I leave? What should I first remember from what we saw? Parade judges, speak of the sinful triangle of unprecedented political and judicial corruption? The Minister on the one hand, the prosecutor of corruption on the other, willing partners on the other, with journalists, with what can be imagined and with willing witnesses who then backed up and started to make their own turfs. These unprecedented methods, however, had serious political and individual consequences. Unfortunately, we have prosecutors who have submitted that they have received terrible interventions in their work, that they were clearly and clearly ordered to take action or omissions. We have unsatisfactory entrepreneurs and journalists, such as the Papachristos case, where the order was shocking. Why? From the outset, creation of a guilty story without even having any idea or suspicion. Prosecutors who testified that they were afraid of their own life and even associated facts that were personally experienced at that time with all that they were subject to as threats. Finally, your system worked with the spider strategy, phenomena its web and connect what she was touching. Today is not a good day for Parliament. We're not happy with that. And whoever rejoices should be very sad at himself if he is happy. Does this process progress when it is a fierce blow to the soft revolt of our worthy and institutional system? It is the damage, ladies and gentlemen, because corrupt justice means that all the State's institutional manifestations are corrupted. Did we want another source like that? We had such luxurious truth of another black page in the modern political history of the country when democracy still licks its wounds from the dirty '89 structurings, the stunned persecutions, the ruthless political blackmails only to manipulate justice with the aim of politically strangled and morally eradicating the great democratic party of PASOK, which had already spent eight years of shocking reform that you all today imitate. So today, ladies and gentlemen, fairy tales are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u146	Mrs. Ljugoli, please, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u147	Yes, Mr. President, I see the clock and I count the time. Today is finally the end of populism and the involvement in the DNA of others. Remember. The Civic Opposition and the Government responsible for what has happened spoke with a slogan "we are coming back to the old". Finally older than the old one, the pseudo-democratic initiative to investigate the 'NOVARTIS' scandal has finally ended. So no research into the scandal, no one on the stool, no compensation for the enormous damage caused by the Greek public. So you're not gonna talk to us? Why did you, at the initiative of your government, not do all of this and bring us here, all these thousands of people? But you shake your finger and actually apply the theories of extremist makeivelism, of crypt-political purposes and hide one of the worst forms of populism like this. Andreas Loverdos, Vangelis Venizelos and George Koutromanis? For us of the clearest faces of politics and morality that have not given you any right at all. We're proud to have them on our side! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] How do you touch these people and how do you really try to put them on the political butcher counter? But you were, as a part of the New Democracy was attracted, because that is how all the exemplary and reformist efforts of the PASOK government of 2009-2012, as you were all attracted to, were left unreserved. So you two unscrupulous co-operators worked together to make all this happen and found a very good passport, Mr Papagelopoulos - and I conclude, Mr President - which had all of it, a little judge, a little of the secret services and a little man with that character that we saw a little while ago and could accomplish the very nice plan of the White House, with all the paranormals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u148	And you've just got to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u149	And I'm ending up saying this. The story about me is very clear and I am tabling my opinion as a member of the Change Movement and a member of the Committee of Inquiry, Mr President, that is why your tolerance. The then government left the real game on the field and played a diversion on the scale. Thousands of people involved left behind. No one paid the "marble". Doctors, morals, natural perpetrators are now swimming, ladies and gentlemen, happy at the pelagics of limitation. Really, you're apologizing and going to apologize for this frustration of yours? We have never received a reply within the Committee of Inquiry. Democracy is on our way, many times racketed, often licking its wounds, but it is moving on and we have the role of institutional guarantor of that party who will always be at the side of the struggles to make reforms to protect democracy and give all guarantees for the next day in order to be able to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Litikoli. I feel a little bit like exploitation because I have to do with modern and intelligent people. One speaks as parliamentarians, one speaks as members of the preliminary interrogation. That's not how it works. But I understand the Change Movement that has all three speakers. You should know that I take this seriously, too. Mr Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes. We can make it to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, you said, in a charming capacity for ten minutes to Mrs Lykoulis, that she took the cash and took two minutes more than double the time, because she is a woman, for equal reasons, so I, for equal reasons, will not make it to twelve minutes, but at least let me have your tolerance for eight minutes as a member of the committee. When things are hampering, ladies and gentlemen, in SYRIZA, then we remember the national reasons, then we invoke national unity. Who are they invoking national unity? Those who set up an entire mechanism to eliminate their political opponents. They here today invoked national unity. Who invoked national unity? Those who set up a whole mechanism to cover up all those failures in the handling that they did in Matti and who cost hundreds of lives in Greek society. They come here today and call for national unity and tell us that this debate should not be held here today. We should not be discussing the extermination of political opponents, but we should be focused on national issues, when they know that this debate at the same time - because I can say that it is at least populist as an argument - has long been identified to be today without any issues coming up. This debate also concerns Parliament alone and not the government. That is why you see that the government, which fully respects the principle of separation of powers, today is absent. Here we are all as MPs. We are therefore respecting the institutions, respecting the constitutional principles, one of which is the principle of separation of powers, and on the basis of this principle justice is independent. Justice is one of the key pillars of the democratic culture and the rule of law. The independence of justice, which is fully guaranteed in our Constitution, through a series of articles and the conviction in society that justice works independently, inspires citizens the sense of lawfulness and the functioning of institutions within the rule of law. Our Constitution ensures the absolute separation of powers and ensures the functional and personal independence of judges. This independence and separation within our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, are absolutely essential. It is interesting that the professor of criminal law, Mr. Karras, who in writing notes: "The independence of the justice organs is a fundamental feature of the rule of law, but its basic practical significance lies in the administration of criminal justice. Because here it is possible to offend most of the most essential human goods, such as life, personal freedom, property, property and reputation." "The judicial officers - the professor continues - are independent of both legislative and executive authority and especially of the administration of justice. In fact - it stresses - the formation of relations between judicial officers and the Ministry of Justice is essentially determined by the extent of judicial independence". All of this was brutally imprisoned in the case of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Papaggioulou, who came here today and accused the majority rapporteur, Mr Plory, of being able to insight, he says, which he had during the committee. Of course, this insight and this possibility in no way compete with the ability of Mr. Papagelopoulos, who had foreseen outside the Maximos Mansion that we are talking about the greatest scandal from the establishment of the Greek state, something which, of course, collapsed in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, the evidence from the parade and the testimony of the witnesses before the pre-examination committee is inconsistent. It seemed clearly that a manipulated system was operating, controlled and directed. At the top of the pyramid, Mr. Papagelopoulos. His associates? Journalists and sadly judiciaries who, for different reasons, each agreed to cooperate and execute orders. Those who were not accepting, being exterminated, were pushed into resignation. Politicians, political opponents, and even natural persons, were targeted, even the wife of the former Chief of Police and current Prime Minister, first with press releases. These later - shortly after - were transmitted in a competent manner to initiate the process of judicial prosecution with associated judicial officers. I repeat, those who didn't cooperate were pushed. They were attempting to terrorize them in various ways. There were such pressures that were finally pushed into resignation. The case of Mrs Ryku, which she submits: 'A few days later she called me again the Deputy Minister of Justice', that is, Mr Papagelopoulos, 'the voice of whom I recognise, telling me in an imperative style 'you still didn't send the case-file 'NOVARTIS' to Parliament'. I answered him, "Mr. Minister, I do not persecute anyone without evidence." Then he said to me with anger: "You have and you are being neglected, and for the following things others will take care of." When I told him that "I'm not this school", he replied: "Wait then see if your school will get you good." Before I could say anything, the connection was interrupted." That's what Mrs. Ryku submits. But it is not just Mrs Ryku, it is also Mr Angelis, Mr Athanasios, Mrs Tsatani, Mrs Cyvelos, all prosecutors, who have tabled this methodology within the committee and have denounced it. With all these elements, ladies and gentlemen, and many others, which, of course, I cannot talk about at this time, I think it is absolutely essential and we really have those strong indications that the prosecution will proceed so that we propose the adoption of Mr Papagelopoulos's prosecution committee and that this case should be brought to justice, which is the only institution responsible for deciding. We as a Parliament today must simply act as guardian of the authority of the institutions, of the Constitution, of justice, of the rule of law, of the political system and of the democratic constitution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, too. Mr Giola has the floor on behalf of the Radical Left coalition, followed by Mr Ypsilantis, on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I am not happy with it, but I will bitterly bitteren the colleagues of the Change Movement, since they have'swinged our finger', reminding them of certain names. I don't know what they're telling you. Tsochazopoulos, Sbokos, Papantoniou, Tsukatos, Mandelis and many other "flowers" that were nurtured in your gardens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u154	Self-cleaning...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u155	There was no parliamentary term in your term, ladies and gentlemen, without a scandal. So the finger, we don't move it. The Greek people have already moved it to you and landed you roughly, from 45% to 4.8%. A hint. Hold your momentum and your anger. Turn your arrows against the neoliberal Right. But, unfortunately, you did not forget the unholy alliance with which you were associated. Time to choose if you want to be called Social Democratic Force. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the well-known assumption of the Prime Minister at the IGC on September 8, 2019, where he recognised the existence of the "NOVARTIS" scandal, but also of a political process, as he said, issues that needed legal investigation and possibly related to the House. At that time there was discernment within the New Democracy and there were still suspensions for references and trials. In less than a month, the forces of the "we will take them to the end" took the "top hand" and with the first request of thirty government MPs, the pre-review committee was set up, but with the headquarters of the government, as today's good time, gaps and the majority of ministers present in shadow or absent voluntarily. The project more than the revelation of the evil Papagelopoulos and the bet of confirming the hysterical, extreme, "mujahedin" tactics took place by the New Democracy team, assisted by the permanent reserve of the Change Movement. That's it. With drunken movements and concise procedures, the majority expelled two first-line strains from the SYRIZA group, and so on. Janakopoulos and Polakis. First arbitrary arbitrary, that is, illegality resulting in total nullity. It's self-evident. Applicants may not be the same to decide on the fate of their request. So, for the admissibility and well-founded, as we say law, of the grounds for exceptions which they themselves propose, and they decide? On the contrary, by directly circumventing the legal rules for a fair trial, at least two of the members of the New Democracy Group did not demonstrate their required legal obligation to exclude themselves, including the rapporteur of the New Democracy. Second. The raw coups and illegal practices carried out by the members of the New Democracy and KINAL groups continued with arrogance and enthusiasm throughout the work of the committee. They were drunk and examined by four witnesses, Tsatanis, Kyvelos, Athanasios and mainly Samby Mioney, who had absolutely no knowledge of offences attributed to Mr Papagelopoulos on the basis of the first decision of the referral and concerned the so-called construction in the case of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Third. They sought to reveal the identity of the witnesses of the public interest. Their pursuit of manifest, to be intimidated, to be terrified and, in the end, to provoke these persons to withdraw their testimonies. This has been one of the most inconsistent, anti-institutional and illegal aspects of majority behaviour. It was necessary for the Vice-President of the Ice Bay to intervene to prevent this coup from happening. Think only of the joy of organised gangs across the globe in listening to the possible - unlikely should have been - revealing the identity of the guarded witnesses that you have tried, fortunately, unsuccessfully. Fourth. You dared literally to drag before the committee, which was responsible for dealing only with political persons, individuals, and had not yet been prosecuted by the former State Secretary for Justice. Your enthusiasm and political sympathy led you to this disgust of disputing and illegal energy, which has thankfully again impacted the negative report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, the report of which we have asked, which has literally 'empted' you, preventing further arbitraryness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you're kind, we can't telegraphs. We participated in sixty-four meetings. Two hundred and fifty hours of meetings. We have to say something. Besides, for equality...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Gillola, you participated in sixty-four meetings. You do not have to pass on all sixty-four meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u157	No, of course not. Some crises and valuations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u158	I told you up to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u159	I'm moving on, not eating time. The arbitrary nature of this was a disgrace and a reproach for legal science and demonstrated the absolute abhorism of policies that served as obsessed persecutors of their political opponents. The fifth reason for the absolute nullity is that the call from Papagelopoulos to provide explanations, without specifying, even in any way, the actions for which it has been referred. Mr Papagelopoulos was found in providing his explanations to assume what the offences he was accused of, because he is specifically accused, how, and how he has committed himself to committing them. In other words, we have come to the nightmare scene of apologizing for evidence that he feels is being charged with, and that he is already in danger of being accused of self-criticizing and self-determination. Where's the fair trial? If that's possible! I shall then refer to two more important points, as far as I can tell, which emerged a few days before the conclusion was drawn, which the majority of them slightly overlooked, because you were simply not liked, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the judicial compromise of NOVARTIS with the US authorities, where the pharmaceutical industry admits that it has acted in order to influence decisions by state officials and is called upon to pay a fine of USD 310 million for unfair practices in the foreign country. He was reading Greece. Only a majority considered that this element was not necessary to comment and to be appreciated in the conclusion, because it was simply overturned by the entire account. Secondly and most importantly, in the investigation carried out at the same time and independently by two prosecutors from the Ice Bay - another abstract and schizoid conception - the offences committed by the corruption prosecutors, who are alleged to be acting by the Popeulus, were therefore found in two divergent findings. These documents were not requested by the committee, they were not provided to the suspect, even though they were requested. If these are not important and essential elements in investigating and examining the charges, then what are they, ladies and gentlemen? The unfounded, one-sided, and out-of-date depositions of displeased, obedient and end-of-end witnesses? The latest information obliges the majority to cease strangling justice, leaving it independent and unaffected to do its work. It is unheard of to hear the direct anti-constitutional cries and crowns of the suspect, Mr. Georgiades, for the sentence and imprisonment of the Prosecutor of Corruption. To what rule of law, where has such reference been heard again by an executive body against independent justice? So should the anti-institutional suggestions of the Minister for Justice that all the arguments against political persons should have been filed. What do they want anyway? They want to subjugate, abolish the function of justice? Well, they won't. Because it is certain that the worthy and inadmissible judges will continue to do their job and conscientiously to investigate the ruthless cases of corruption, as much as your pursuit is to intimidate them and harass them to cover up the way - such as the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, and at the same time to drug any other investigation into corruption cases occurs in the future. You have completely violated the institutions and the independence of powers. You want justice feared, manipulated and subjected to the mountains of your own government. But this is a constitutional diversion and the Greek people will prevent it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Ypsilantes has the floor, and then Mr. Cappatos both from New Democracy immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today my thought is in Kastelorizo, the Aegean Sea, the Armed Forces of the country guaranteeing the independence and territorial integrity of our country. And, of course, these difficult times with the huge national problems, our prolongation would be the last thing that would have wanted to be done, but unfortunately, there are still, from a period of hardship for democracy, for institutions, which are dangerous to the economy, for citizens' safety, which last year, on 7 July 2019. It was then that the Greek people, disguised and disgusted by the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL, Tsipras - Kammenos, gave strong command to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy to take the place out of this democratic and governmental insufficiency, economic hardship, development stagnation and, of course, to close the dangerous joints that opened for our democracy with the system of dismantling and involvement of their political opponents as supposedly suspect in the infamous international scandal "NOVARTIS". The Commission's proposal was based on the principle of subsidiarity and on the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security and social security. Today, with all the evidence of publicity, but also of the critical issues that have been investigated, they have emerged and proved in the work of the Preliminary Committee that I had the honour of being Vice-President, it appears that we have an extreme contradiction of speech and work, the well-determined game of political hypocrisy and the predetermined extermination of their political opponents, first victims of prominent officials of our political area, Prime Ministers, Ministers and MPs. As poachers, they set a cart, fortunately not for long because it didn't come out. Both evidence-based and evidence-based evidence has resulted in a drunken attempt to manipulate justice, with the ultimate aim of political extermination of these political and electoral parties. He didn't pass them. This data, in addition to their criminal decency, is evidently compose the setting of an unprecedented political sepsis, with the previous government retaliating unfair means, emerged from another era, ignoring the strict constitutional requirement for a clear distinction of functions. What is particularly regrettable is the fact that the protagonists of the events under investigation were in the narrow circle of the then political leadership, which is still silent, thus indirectly applauding all these illegitimate practices. However, the current operation of SYRIZA, as a Protestant Opposition in the Preliminary Committee, has also been a paradoxical blocking of the procedures for investigating the specific categories attributed to Mr Papagelopoulos. A long institutional investigation procedure for committing criminal offences is completed in plenary. The National Representation, as the most competent State body in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, shall decide whether to exercise or not to prosecute so that, in the event of a vote, the proceedings may be continued by establishing the special court for the purposes of the case. We are therefore called today on to adopt the finding that, after systematic, thorough and committed to the line in the Constitution and the law, the majority of the Preliminary Committee suggests to the National Representation. Of all the evidence, the central role of Mr Papagelopoulos in all the unlawful interventions is clearly seen. The findings refer in detail and in a thorough manner to the elements of the case-file that lead to these conclusions, but also to the final proposal to prosecute the controlled former Minister, Mr. Papagelopoulos, as there were colours of guilt for eight offences. I will not mention them because time does not allow us. However, they have been heard so descriptively and so detailedly by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ploris. Thus, we conclude and ask that the Greek justice be handed over to the hands of Greek justice for a black period of our political life, which we wish and I believe that the Civicism hopes not to live again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. Mr Capatos has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy, followed by Mr Xanthopoulou on behalf of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I was a member of the pre-inquiry, Mr President. I'm saying that to achieve the two minutes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate and vote on the conclusions of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination is the culmination of a long-term path. Nine months of pretext, dozens of witnesses deposited, hundreds of hours' meetings, thousands of documents, a huge process, compose the route that leads us to today's vote, a path that has brought to the surface the path of our political system over time, but also weaknesses in judicial power, particularly in its relationship with executive power. This is the time when data is being displayed with shocking, underground routes and links between political and judicial interests, which we could never imagine. However, it is also the moment when we choose the institutional way in which to investigate possible offences within the Special Parliamentary Committee, avoiding attitudes of popular courts and public courts, which so easily subtracted a portion of our political system in the recent past. It is evidence that the distinction of powers remains the foundation of the rule of law in Greece, providing us with the necessary democratic security controls. The time-consuming message to anyone who feels powerful in the environment that his temporary authority offers is that the time of the crisis is coming from which no one can escape. Democracy is stronger. The rule of law is above all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, both the proposal to prosecute the controlled former Deputy Minister of State, Mr Papagelopoulos, for the eight offences described in the finding, and the failure to include two offences due to inappropriate evidence of guilt, constitute the framework in which the criminal prosecution is proposed against the former Minister. This is the result of a systematic special parliamentary procedure, a procedure which was aimed solely at investigating the truth and the return of responsibilities wherever they are divided, of an institutional procedure with surnamed witnesses and evidence. There were little moments on this road when the exchange of arguments, the particular nature of the committee and what the witnesses have put before us has caused tensions which in many cases do not honor us as a legislative body. But today, we leave the past behind. Having a quiet conscience that we have acted in a way of institutionally correct and political law, we are handing over a finding of detailed and legally satisfactory. But we always have in mind the political environment of the next day, a political environment in which judicial authority must be truly independent. Our political system is ready to absorb in future any vibrations threatening its democratic core, as well as political staff are mature to reject as its regular choice the spiral of his political opponents by sowing false accusations and news. In a critical time for our national issues such a political environment is more necessary than ever. Each city has three elements, the appropriateness of which must be examined by the legislator. If they work properly and the city is definitely working properly. To the extent that there are differences in each of them, there are differences between them. Of these three elements, the first is consulted on common issues, the second concerns their principles and responsibilities, and the third is to give justice. This fundamental distinction, introduced by Aristotle and analysed by Montesquier, follows us to this day. It's the finest line that separates us from the dissolution and the darkest moments of human history. It is our duty not to ignore it, to defend it and to prevent any attempts that jeopardise this balance. The conclusion we are voting on today is exactly what it is about. The previous government's attempt to remain in power not with its work for the citizens and the country's progress, but with the sparking of political opponents without evidence, has been politically condemned to the conscience of Greek citizens. There is no doubt that Greek citizens are aware of the importance and are following the development of political scandals, the criminal dimension of which justice will judge. Together with what shockingly comes into the light of publicity in recent weeks about how top executives of SYRIZA - ANEL other cases have been handled, there are serious indications that what the pre-review committee investigated is not an isolated incident. I fear that it has been part of a more general amoralist and dark attempt to suffocate the state and institutions, an attempt to abolish the discrimination of powers on political prevalence without rules. I will conclude by saying that the distinction of powers does not only have a legal nature, but also concerns the daily behavior and the style of all those exercising power without any exception. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, the so-called 'ethical advantages' are not inherited, and no matter what, we cannot pay them ourselves. Every day we are judged either as citizens or as politicians, from the day we become grown up to the end of our lives, and any past cannot be used as an excuse for our actions in the present and future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. The President of the Council shall have the floor. Blondopoulos from SYRIZA. With Mr. Xanthopoulos the second cycle of speakers closes and starts the third cycle, in which Mr. Yannis Loverdos, Mr. Kalamatianos, Mr. Salmas, Biagis, Karagkounis, Papachristopoulos, Vultesis, Bartzokas and Ms. Jackson in the seat of Mr. Papa. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. At the very least, in fact, my time is given, I owe as a Member of the Renewal Left to take advantage of every opportunity, every crack which occurs, every passage revealed to say, together with the other Members of the SYRIZA, that the country is fascinating towards authoritarianism, that a personal regime that is removed from the assumptions of the Parliamentary Republic is being consolidated and approaching Hungarian, Polish and other types of regimes. The country returns to the constellation of illegal recordings and the government "values" its contents. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, with the principle of numerical superiority you ignore the "NOVARTIS" scandal and refer the former Minister of Justice to the former Minister of Justice, violating basic procedural rules and basic principles of law, fully accepted as elements of our legal culture. The cartoon shots fell at the committee's initial meeting when you proposed and you decided to exclude the members of the committee, the MPs Dimitris Janakopoulos and Paulo Polakis. It is impressive that you yourself have proposed this and you have decided on your own, essentially by circumventing the Rules of Procedure of the House and by intervening in the sole prerogative of the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to define the representation of his party and not someone else. So it was the pistol of the pistol that put you in the way of constant arbitrariness. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the Those who have lived in the process remember your desperate effort, your ravage, literally, attempting to reveal the identity of the protected witnesses. It is impressive that you do not understand the importance of the country's position on the global legal precedent for the restoration of witnesses from public interest witnesses. And fortunately, there are judges in the Areo Ice, to paraphrase the well-known word "Milon of Potsdam" and they decided that these witnesses will already be examined under the terms of secrecy laid down by the law. Therefore, you have failed to do so too. You also wanted to bring private witnesses to the committee, non-political, in the capacity of the suspect, and it goes without saying that the committee of Parliament decides and examines political persons who have the political status. Here too, the Scientific Council of Parliament has given you the answer and you have claimed another political and legal defeat. You conclude with a legal acrobatism which is very impressive. You refer him to him as a moral automobile, and there is no natural automobile in the actions for which you blame him. That's all we'll find in front of us as a legal order. And it is impressive how the judiciary will end in a court of law, in a motion of referral and how the Supreme Special Court will be seized to judge a man without these very basic elements of the indictment. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, corruption is a major problem in Greek society. The decision to compromise ‘NOVARTIS’ with the US State is the pre-registration act to confirm the existing scandal and is undeniable. I read from the agreement between NoVARTIS and the US State that between '12 and '15 in the United States and elsewhere the defendant 'NOVARTIS HELLAS' is accused of being etc. to convince that official to use his influence before a foreign government and its services and institutions in order to influence the acts and decisions of that government, its services and its institutions. And now we are fighting and disagreeing with the Greek Parliament on the translation failure, on how it translates? The official translation expressly says that. What's the government doing? He refuses to see the reality and it is enough to monitor the criminal prosecution against Mrs Toulupakis, which gives her a double benefit. On the one hand, it finds a natural engineer because, as I said before, the physicist is not described as a result, on the other hand, there is the reason for Mrs Toulupakis to remove the case-file. The fact that Mrs Toulupakis conducted the investigations and is being carried out at the expense of criminal prosecution ranks our country in countries with a stigma, such as Romania, such as Poland, as Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be borne in mind that the Minister of Justice has requested discharge from NOVARTIS and that the Government's Minister has called for the criminal prosecution of Ms Toulopakis. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: I address all the prosecutors and judges, and say to them: you are serving in a body whose beginnings are Tertset and the Polyzoids. Unfortunately, in their evolution, they also created a Kollia. Mrs Toulupakis and the honest and the able and inadmissible judges have chosen a side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthopoulou. Mr Yiannis Loverdos, on behalf of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing critical times. As you know, Greece has many open fronts and it needs great seriousness, responsibility and national unity in order to be able to cope with these historic moments that we are experiencing. Today we are not only addressing the Greek nation here in the House as its representatives. The very story that comes to us is looking at us as to what we are doing at this time for the salvation of our country. It is very important that in many areas the country finds its way and its pace. It is very important that we have a government that is responsibly and democratically trying to put things on their way. We in the New Democracy, at least most of us and, above all, the President himself, do not want the public life of the country to be criminalised. There is no intention of prosecuting political opponents. On the contrary, we believe in parliamentary procedures, democratic institutions and their support, which has not happened in recent years in SYRIZA. We cannot stay closed in front of these dreadful things that have been revealed about the action of certain SYRIZA officials. I hope and hope that they will not get too high - which I am not at all sure - for the last five years when SYRIZA has played as a government with the institutions, played with democracy, played with justice in a way of intent and undermining our own democracy. Our democracy, you know, is based on the principle of Montesquié in the'spirit of laws', the distinction of powers. Since someone is trying to intervene in justice and enforce their decisions, then we are dismantling the distinction of powers, we are destroying the institutions, and that is what I very much fear has happened to the case that we are discussing today. I heard Mr Papagelopoulos when he spoke for more than an hour. I have no intention of commenting on him because he is a accused person and the accused have the right to say what they want to protect their position, but I have to say that what has arisen in the pre-inquiry committee's procedures is unprecedented. We had witness testimonies that a Minister intervened directly and without even pretext to impose his views on justice. I do not remember this ever happening ever since 1974, and then I watch as a professional journalist for about thirty-five years very closely the political life of the country. What happened with the 'NOVARTIS' case and the Papaggelopoulos case are, in my opinion, unprecedented and in this case we cannot stay with crossed hands. We have a duty to refer this matter to justice, as will justice itself, according to the independent institutions, will judge the outcome of this whole difficult case. I have no doubt in my mind that there are very strong indications of Mr Papagelopoulos' guilt over the eight offences referred to by the Committee of Inquiry, and that is why I have the view that you too - because there are too many honest colleagues within the SYRIZA - must take out the party brigades and see the reality. It's not a New Democracy confrontation - SYRIZA. One cannot play with institutions and democracy. That is why we must go beyond our party status now, overcoming the populism that some of us can see up to now and get rid of the critical circumstances that the country is going through, and that is why, in my opinion, we must refer Mr Papagelopoulos, so that independent justice can judge exactly what happened and do not repeat such interventions to democratic institutions and to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Mr. Kalamatianos from SYRIZA has the floor and Mr. Salmas from New Democracy follows. Here you go, Mr. Kalamatiane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on a day when Turkish provocation is culminating in and directly questioning our country's sovereign rights, the government majority chooses to top up its divisive practices and attempt to smash and smuggle its political opponents. It shall continue the procedure for the pre-litigation decision of the former Minister. The critical moments require the unity of all Greeks, but you choose the targeting of political opponents to serve micropolitical interests. Today's debate in Parliament is, in fact, a debate on democracy and institutions. It is a debate in which all acts, all the omissions of a malicious performance, a fiasco that has been set up on political revancism and the attempt to mislead citizens to cover the real scandal 'NOVARTIS'. The work of majority members in the pre-review committee was very specific. From the outset, it has been geared towards overthrowing the truth and creating a construction scenario. This scenario cannot stand up to common sense. The result is predetermined. But let's start over. The dozens of legal acronyms and blackmails of the government majority against judiciary officials investigating the "NOVARTIS" scandal failed. Unfortunately, your public threats and horrific interventions in justice have not gone missing. The prosecuted prosecution of the Prosecutor of Corruption, Ms. Toulupaki, was exercised. This happened at the time that NOVARTIS confessed to the United States corruption, which took place in Greece over the rule of Samaras. The compromise text itself shows that it has used unfair practices, even money laundering, to officials to influence the Greek Government in order to benefit from ‘NOVARTIS’. Mrs Toulupakis is being persecuted at the time that former ministers are being tried in court and one has already been prosecuted. Mrs Toulopakis is being persecuted at the time the pre-examination came to a fiasco and there was no evidence of the guilt of Papagelopoulos for the allegedly 'NOVARTIS'. At the same time, when all this is happening, we are being persecuted by the prosecutor who dared to investigate the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. This has been announced by members of the government and even in television time. Every day that passes, you deceive justice and underestimate judges and prosecutors. But this is not an image that suits the rule of law. We are really in front of many paradoxes. You're asking for the prosecution of the head of the corruption prosecutor's office, but you're archiving the section for the assistant prosecutors who lifted all the burden of the investigations. We should look for and analyse the reason for this differentiation. It is also necessary to seek and analyse the reasoning for adopting one of the findings, one of the anti-prosecutors from the two of the Ice Arena, which is obviously a good thing for the government's record of allegedly manufacturing. On the other hand, the in-depth and complete conclusion of the other Deputy Prosecutor, who has been adept at the fact that the prosecutor for corruption has acted in a lawful manner and has done her duty. Policies for the Government to prosecute specific judicial officers in order to save the fiasco of supposedly construction and to cover the "NOVARTIS" scandal are a direct shot at the independence of all judicial officers. These methods drug any attempt to investigate scandal and corruption cases in the future. They send the message to the judges not to dare control civilians for illegal acts. You do not hesitate, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to abolish the separation of powers and to curb the independence of justice. You'll be accountable in history for this attitude. The NOVARTIS scandal has been revealed, but you are still undermining the institutions and leading the political system to despair. You have translated the extrajudicial compromise in your own way, exoticly provocative. You choose to be lost in translation, ladies and gentlemen, but misinformation and hood do not pass. The people understand your ways, they understand that you are trying to hide a clear confession of corruption. There is no doubt that the pre-committee of the Parliament started out as a travesty and ended up in a prank. You have turned a committee of Parliament into a party body of the New Democracy and the Change Movement, with an indictment made and preconceived decisions. The majority of the committee tabled the finding of referral by the former Minister, ignoring and concealing key elements and witnesses that would enlighten the case. A serious process of the House has turned into a party of purpose. Dismiss continually accusations to create impressions so that there are shadows. With constructed charges, illegal methodologies, indictees of accused persons, who suddenly become trustworthy witnesses, are trying to deceive your political opponents. You're making clear murders of characters. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of our Members confirms that the New Democracy and the Movement of Change through the work of the preliminary investigation have tried to establish a re-enforcementist mechanism for the enforcement of preconceived decisions on the persecution of political opponents. They tried to set up a transmitter of deafening intimidation and extortion with the aim of fading justice. However, the completion of the work of the committee will not mean the achievement of these dark objectives. This will not happen because there are representatives of political and judicial institutions who have the courage to set limits to the downhill of the New Democracy and the Change Movement. Therefore, carbons the treasure, because your effort is a black page in Parliament, which was used as a tool against political opponents and against democracy-critical institutions, such as judicial authority. Anthrax the treasure, because there were no evidence of guilt about Mr. Papagelopoulos' referral. The truth will shine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. Mr Salmas has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, while, as you all understand, I would have every reason to speak about justice, for a service, for Mr Papagelopoulos, I shall avoid temptation. Today I am going to talk about what the unfortunate administration of a normal case of unfair practices has taught us in our country. Today I am going to talk about the concepts affected by the management of the NOVARTIS case, about justice, democracy, political culture and the measure. These moments of Parliament are to think that all of us are not permanent, no one is always ruling, nothing prevents the day of the crisis and fairness even when consciousness is not working. These moments are to teach all of us that unless we tame the daily sense of majesty caused by the positions of power we are called upon to serve, we may be wrong. And the mistakes in politics have consequences with a multiplier. Who will remember after ten years Mr. Papagelopoulos? Unfortunately, no one will remember and even though he was responsible for corruption, he has taken no steps to combat corruption. He will not remember that he has done absolutely nothing to shield the independence of justice, which he has served for years. I do not know if he gave orders to the prosecutors, but I know that he has never told them "be independent and I will do anything to defend your independence". He did not say to them, I will fight, so that the leadership of the highest courts in the country is not appointed by the Ministerial Council, but is chosen by justice itself, so that we have judges to the extent of the circumstances and do not depend on politicians. I was a fan of that opinion. After the "NOVARTIS" court officers, with their intercategories, did everything they could to change their minds. Strangely enough, I don't change. I want independent justice, I want justice, which renders justice, I want the Greeks to stand with awe in front of the judges, as I thought they deserved. Believe me, I have not dived these years in the injustice they have suffered. And he suffered injustice. What did I tell you here in the Chamber? What Mr. Papaggiopoulou also admitted at "KONTRA CHANNEL" in the autumn, as well as the Prosecutor of Sofulakis, to whom you referred with praise, wrote in the eighteenth page of his poem, that I gave the authorities the opportunity to launch an investigation into "NOVARTIS" in Greece and that I had sharply reduced the prices of medicinal products and pharmaceutical expenditure at political cost. But I came up with a suspect, and I fell apart, and I was filed. When? On 5 July 2019, on Friday before the elections, I did not know it and went to the elections as a suspect, while I had been filed. On the eve of the elections, after a two-and-a-half-year investigation, my archiving order was written. That's why I didn't even tear. But I have been preaching every day about the interrogations of the prosecutors and the level of confrontation, and the contents of them in the pre-review committee. I was crying, because it is not the work of the Minister of Justice, especially the agency responsible for corruption, to close deals with publishers and businessmen at the Maximos Mansion. I was crying because I also recognised responsibility for me, which I am twenty years of parliamentarians, and I serve the Greek Parliament, because I did not fight with greater passion for the independence of justice, for the fight against corruption, for greater transparency and accountability, because I did not take initiatives to shield our country's institutional framework so that unfair practices would be punished strictly by companies trying here. But I was taught from the case and I promise I will do so from now on. On the occasion of today's debate I will ask the Minister of Justice to bring immediate legislative changes, perhaps in the standards of American law, which will stimulate the disclosure of unfair practices and bring hard punishment to those who dare it, because the institutional framework in our country is unfortunately made for unfair practices. The next 'NOVARTIS' must think very well. I caught "NOVARTIS" to pay travels of services involved in the medicine and in cases of corresponding payments of doctors from the same company, who went to the courts, the doctors were also acquitted by the company. Instead of Mr Papagelopoulos dealing with this institutional framework, he announced the biggest scandal of the century, which he did not reveal, since he knew nothing about it, nor about the investigation carried out by the US authorities until I said it in an electronic newspaper and this publication Mr. I didn't celebrate and Mr. Papagelopoulos and Mr. Paulakis also managed to be a suspect, but other honest politicians, who had nothing to do with the drug. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is called ridiculous and dishonest attempts to show a case of unfair practices by people, who have not only fought corruption, but have, on the contrary, increased the pharmaceutical expenditure by millions of euros. From 190 million euros to SYRIZA, it went to 250 million euros per month to five years. They put all the new drugs out of control in SYRIZA's five-year-old. They reduced the price sheets to one year from the two - price report means reductions in prices, incorporation of reductions everywhere, throughout the world - they increased the patient's participation and changed the law in order to simplify a thousand nineteen medicines, such as Mr. Xanthos told the Committee on Social Affairs when the chairman of the EOF was appointed, but fortunately we prevented it and did not happen. From people who have conducted an investigation committee on the medicine, so you have made it the Committee of Inquiry, and you have covered them, only by discussing one meeting in the Committee of Inquiry, on the pretext that we will discuss it in the other "NOVARTIS", which she has also closed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u172	Mr Salma, you have to sort of finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u173	In three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u174	I understand very well, but you need to finish in a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u175	If you want, I'm stopping.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u176	No, I don't want you to stop, but we don't discuss your case today. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u177	It has been done by people who have been conducting an investigation committee on the medicine and who have covered it, discussing it at only one meeting in the committee of inquiry, and having spent six meetings on the most inappropriate arsenals that were not authorised, Mr President. I say this because I saw Mr Papagelopoulos burning, because in his case witnesses were called, who were not authorised by the House. The arrays were authorized by Parliament to come to the Committee of Inquiry? Never, no sensitivity to anyone. So, two yards and two weights. Unreliability means that. In the Committee of Inquiry and the Committee of Inquiry into Mr Papagelopoulos, the Members themselves participated in these committees, both in the one on SYRIZA and in the current one, and raised issues of nullity. Since I said what happened with the most famous arthroposis, it is another political project with which I was targeted by Mr Paulakis and SYRIZA. I am not saying Mr. Tsipras, because he has never referred to this word in honor. By means of findings from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where SYRIZA was hardened, Mr. Spyridis, and then led by Mr. Polakis and the Vice-President of the EEAS, they lured the corruption prosecutors to ask, three months before the elections, for my immunity to be lifted for alleged evidence of a moral automobile in infidelity for damage to the public 550,000 euros. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] And I went to the election, and with this on my back. However, because, ladies and gentlemen, the cases opened in the House are being closed and in the House today, I am telling you that this case was filed last February by the prosecutors of corruption and Mrs Toulopakis, who Mr Paulakis is not questioning and, on the contrary, praised, since no single euro has been found. Therefore, since all SYRIZA has been expressed in favour of the credibility of Mrs Toulupakis - and I have no objections to that - the slander of Mr Polakis and of Syriza and the political formula I described in the debate at the time in the House is automatically demonstrated. I would remind you that the SYRIZA party on this case that was filed asked for my resignation from Mr Mitsotakis four times to be deleted, but fortunately unsuccessfully.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u178	Mr Colleague, please close slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u179	One more minute, Madam President. Five months of archiving this case, no journalist and no media wrote a single word about this archiving. While it was poured ink at that time, I remind you that ERT on SYRIZA had infinite news reports of damage allegedly from Salma 850,000 euros, caused by arsonism. Same as in the SYRIZA majority. The Channel and the House showed five times the repetition of every meeting I came to at the time. That's disgusting! And while I should ask for punishment, all I ask is serious and serious, because you are a party that is Dedicated Opposition and democracy is hurt when it is not served properly. Here we are, not to function with our anger, but to show maturity. I don't know if Mr. Papaggiopoulou instructed the prosecutors to target us or trouble us. But if he did, I want to thank him because he unwittingly caused a unique experience, which personally strengthened me, I saw my strength. I understand how important it is to have nothing to fear if your actions are all for the benefit of the public and citizens. I should like to thank him, because after so much thorough scrutiny we have suffered, we are honest and by the prosecutors' stamps, and they will also know that for so long they believe us and support us, whom I would like to thank, on this occasion. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who has surrounded us with absolute confidence throughout our political persecution by SYRIZA, but above all for the exemplary way in which the government has distanced itself from the pre-examination process in the House. I would like to close my speech, which seals a period of time particularly on the political path, with one wish: to be the last time that Parliament has been called upon to refer a former Minister for such serious offences. And not to forget that the presumption of innocence is an inalienable right to any suspected offences. In conclusion, the 'NOVARTIS' case was a case of unfair practices, but it did not involve political people. Nowhere in the world was Novartis involved in politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement now has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, following a very timely and painful procedure, with very long witness examinations, interrogations in extremely unprecedented circumstances, such as that of the coronary, the work of the special parliamentary committee on the investigation of the offences that may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Dimitris Papaggiopoulou, is now officially completed in the performance of his duties. The findings many, the claims too many, and the evidence that came to light are many. But even more, ladies and gentlemen, it is all that we will be called upon to manage tomorrow. After this committee of inquiry, the politically impressive thing will not be to reinvigorate tension and serve a victory performance between innocents and guilts, but after all these findings and the relevant findings of the political parties the political innovation will, in fact, be to leave all behind them opportunism and potential political turmoil, communism, and to give the floor to justice, to natural judges, who will decide and perform their role with piety, objectivity, transparency and impartiality, on the basis of democracy, on the basis of a complicity of the democratic community, on the basis of the best democratic functioning of the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the duty of all the political parties is to guarantee the proper and operational process of the democratic culture and its institutions, namely to ensure that there is absolutely no confusion about the principle of separation of powers, that there is a clear separation of judicial, executive and legislative powers. Ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens are anxiously following all developments this time. It will be politically cowardly if all of us after all these long-lived sittings in closed rooms, if, after all, we do not give a clear explanation to the Greek people, and if it is not well known that the House, the legislature, is looking at and referring to justice, where there are indications - suspicions of interference in the functioning of democratic institutions or when political persons are taking the roles and institutions to their own advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be politically immoral after such a long-term process, with any political tensions and conflicts that have existed during the committee's procedure, to destroy its work for micro-party benefits. It is the last time that all of us, independent of the political party and colour, need to stand up to the circumstances and show due respect. This is the moment when justice has the only reason. It is the real opportunity to prove in practice and with all responsibility that democratic civilisation is functioning and resurrected. It is our great political bet to prove that democratic institutions are working. It is time for the political parties and for each of us to safeguard its civilisation and its proper functioning. It is really a historic day today, to demonstrate the distinctive value, consciousness and political maturity, as a legislative body. It is the starting point of our political responsibility. I would like to stress my pleasure in participating in the pre-review committee of the House. This special committee as an institution acting within the framework of its competences was taken on the matter and performed its legislative duties in an exemplary manner. He assessed all the procedural material which was put into consideration and its specific findings as a result of a very long-term and hard-working process, with a sense of responsibility, as the conduct was considered to be criminal auditors. In this very respect, any questioning of its integrity in order to carry out its work would be against the obligation to respect certain components of our country. The institutionalised tripartite separation of powers and political control in their independent operation, the existence of institutional counterweights and the apparent nature of invasion as a state anomaly does not, to the very least, fail to allow anyone to leave and question the correctness of the legal requirement for appeal even in unfavourable procedures for the control of any high-ranking individuals. Thus, the control status of our parliamentary culture emerges as the strongest guardian and protector of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I participated in this committee as a newly elected Member, with limited or - better - zero parliamentary experience and now, after the end of the work, I feel much richer, I feel much more full, more useful. I therefore welcome any parliamentary effort, which aims to bring to light elements that lead to more transparency, more responsibility, more credibility and ultimately more democracy. That is finally, if you will, and the role that our committee of inquiry must play today, so we must all deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Karagunis from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes, with the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u183	A very small tolerance, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are closing a procedure, which was painful for everyone, because it is obviously not pleasant for anyone to investigate and make decisions on such cases, because they generally reflect the authority of politics. But, of course, if we do not apply the law and do not deal with these sad cases, we will not ensure self-evident, that politicians and politicians should be examples to be taken rather than avoided. And because we are talking about a finding supported by the New Democracy and the Change Movement with its own proposal, and therefore it is not a unanimous conclusion - I would say it is a pity that we should be unanimous and unanimous in this House - and because there is a part of the press that exaggerates the opposition's disagreement, I will say a simple thing that makes me unnecessarily unnecessarily involved in the development of this case. Because if we are right on our side, or on the opposite side, SYRIZA is right, it will finally be judged by the things. Here we are, and we will see, once justice follows its natural procedural course. Only at the end of this procedure will it be practically decided - I repeat - which of the two findings is closer to the correct legal valuation of what is happening. Therefore, the screaming and auctioning of the moment are completely unnecessary, because all of us will be judged on the result. Of course, the one who will prove to be legal closer to reality will also prove politically closer to reality. I believe it is our conclusion, our judgment and our legal and political action that will then be justified. And so this final debate and we will make it much later. And what I'm telling you today, and the good colleagues tell you, and our rapporteur, and I undertake to remind you, then, when it is absolutely clear and, of course, topical. Just think - just one thing I will say, without really any controversy - what will happen if it is finally decided that Mr Papagelopoulos did what is being controlled. You understand how irreparably you will have been exposed politically and how flaming will have proved legally, if what has emerged from the pre-reviewing material is true: that the Deputy Minister of Justice of your government has indeed committed such things unheard of for the Minister of Justice. That the man you chose to fight corruption was the one who finally served her. That the Minister for anti-corruption urged unfounded prosecutions and charges to be set up for purposes of feasibility, to the detriment of people for whom there was no reason. With a specific methodology - which we described - they wanted condoms and indeed, just before the 2019 elections, as Mrs Ryku submitted to us. Extortion repeated by Mr Angelis and a plan to prosecute civilians without evidence. That he was acting in extortionively against prosecutors and targeted them. Tsatani, Athanasios, Kyvelos, Riku, Angelis, all denounce exactly the same: Targetation, blackmail, threats and ultimately punishment when they did not obey. Real threats, not imaginary and false. Actual blackmail against prosecutors. That she had an early knowledge of the ‘NOVARTIS’ case before she even started and was denounced by the testimony of the first protected witness. A year ago they knew what the witness would testify and had made it public. The then Prime Minister, on 2-2-2017, tells Parliament that the "NOVARTIS" scandal involves politicians, and so does Mr. Papagelopoulos a month ago. In specific media, the assurance of political persons has been spread since December 2016. The headlines dozens and everything speaks of certain involvement of political people and that a flow of money has been found [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That the corruption prosecutor witnessed - very low tolerance, Madam President - and from the first moment he knew that they had been involved and therefore illegally granted such protection. And be careful, ladies and gentlemen, the protected witnesses are not asked about critical evidence and they remember the involvement of political persons many months later. Especially the case of former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is typical. While starting their statements, they do not make any reference to his face and after a long time, after many months - oh of the miracle! - Recall that the name of the former Prime Minister is also in this spectacular case. And the prosecutors find all this normal: to take statements without meaningless follow-up. Understanding that the witnesses fall into contradictions and go beyond it. Do not ask specific questions, when serious complaints are filed for dates, for details. Nothing at all. Their statements are made by newspapers. Their statements lasting a whole year and, indeed, some to testify again, while they had already said they had nothing to contribute. The witnesses must deposit documents in much later deposits, which could not have been held and had been seized. So someone's given it to them. The worst thing, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing - is that we are alleged to have trades in Maximos. Citizens, ministers to talk about expenses, private agreements to suspend criminal prosecutions or not to prosecute criminal prosecutions, as if Mr Papagelopoulos's work were to make the broker or some to promise in writing and even considered in the JEPs that they would deal with judicial decisions. In short, if that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, and if it turns out to be so, then the previous government is deeply exposed and Mr Papagelopoulos has been criminally accountable for acts that are unauthorized and disobedient for a democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u184	Please, Mr. Colleague, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u185	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it would be unthinkable for this House of the Hellenic Republic in all the things that this committee has diagnosed, to look the other way. Another colleague said so, we cannot avoid them, because if we do not look at what is heard as signs and monsters, finally, ladies and gentlemen, what are we going to check? Patience, then. Here we go. Democracy obviously works. Justice also works, legitimacy works. And everyone, based on our evaluations and our conclusions on this case...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u187	...we with our own conclusions and, of course, with yours, we'll be counted and we'll see who was finally right. It's so simple, it's so clear and democratic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. You have the floor for five minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u189	I don't know how many people in this Chamber from the Couple inside of them when they go to bed at night, believe what they say the day. And I'm explaining. Seven countries - I could tell you one by one - have been entitled to 'NOVARTIS' and they have taken money back. I would like to make a proposal that could have solved the problem and quickly and not get tired in this Chamber. You could well have asked people of your own who have nothing to do with SYRIZA, what they believe in the NOVARTIS scandal. Example: Leandros Rakintzis has never been appointed by us. I have his reports in front of me. Points and monsters. Elias Mosialos, who is still something today, I think - he gives us advice on the coronary, and quite rightly, in my opinion - has said the thousands of millions of dollars about IKA's overcompensation and the insurance funds from overpricing. Ask him. Alekos Papadopoulos lives. He has said a lot about health piranhas. The Light Sniper lives. That girl would have a stroke of what she saw, and she couldn't understand why they were becoming. Ask her. Panagiotis Nikoloudis, also appointed by you, has spoken openly and has said that this scandal has cost too much money. He uploaded the public debt to unreasonable sums. Vassilis Floridis also fleeing from Mr. Stournara. Ask him why he lost his place then. They're all your people and you could ask a question simple. I would like to stop, however, and focus on three people: the unscrupulous judge Gregory Peponnes has never questioned him! Read its reports on the CICP and on 'NOVARTIS'. Dedicate one night and read what Gregory Pepponi has said. Mostly, though, read what George Sourlas, your Minister of Health, has said and what George Sourlas denounced, and the period at issue was at the Ministry of Justice. Do you want me to read you down? The five minutes are very little for what I'm telling you. Most of all, however, where were your own MPs when for six meetings Mrs Demetriou - and we know her at SYRIZA and it makes sense - a real judge was conquering. Not one of your Members dared - not one - if he dared to tell me exactly what he dared and where the debate ended. The hard mid-term dictatorship, which you have established, did not allow anyone to learn the six meetings of Ms. Demetrius and above all ninety-five pages of Helen Toulopakis, which you are all conquering every day. Shouldn't they be read? If in fact there was information and a press, should people not know what this lady of justice says? No one's learned that because the mid-term dictatorship is holding. Beyond that, people who have been used - literally used - for a strange indictment that has changed from time to time are specific. I quote to them: He is Mr Angelis, an active anti-prosecutor of the Ice Arena. It is Mrs Ryku, who has even recently been promoted to the Advocates-General. It's Mr. Panagiotis Athanasios. It's Mr. Mioney, and I don't remember anyone else. One - one to catch them. I want to remind you this: it is March 2017. First I had the luck of being in the committee of inquiry for two and a half years. I have spent hours working on what was going on in 'NOVARTIS'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want two, three minutes if you're kind, Madam President. If you tell me no, I'll stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u190	You've got two minutes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u191	I respect the process. I would like to remind you, therefore, that Elena Zamanica was an interrogator and then publicly called on Mrs Riku to hand over two procedural documents, Thomas Liakunakou and John Papantoniou. Strangely, he didn't give them. There was sound then, huge noise and we had the relinquishment that was not due to Mrs Ryku's good intention. It's because some of her superiors took her ear. Giannis Papantoniou has not been tried and the presumption of innocence I respect it and I wish man could be acquitted. The late procedure of Ms. Ryku, who hid the documents, has been speeded up by Eleni Toulupaki. He found five accounts of Yannos Papantoniou abroad, and like today many of you talked about a construction, the same people who are in this Chamber - I do not want to remind you who - when the five accounts of Yannos Papantoniou were found in five different countries left him alone. No one supported him. He's been confiscated for two years. His case was archived thirteen and a half years. Listen to this, because I've heard many times here that some people have been wronged. Who were they wronged by? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The meaning of Article 86, you voted for it. We never did! We wanted it to be phased out. Immediately the case-file when there's a political name comes to the House. What are you talking about? Who dragged who? Not us, though. Then the same people talked about manufacturing. Then, when the bills were found, they forgot. And the archived case for thirteen and a half years came back to the surface. He's been prejudged for two years. I say this again, the presumption of innocence has it, and I wish it with honesty. I don't have empathy for anyone. Mrs. Tulupaki has been subjected to an incredible war throughout this story. It's unprecedented, unprecedented. It is a prosecutor who has given no right, which has been vindicated by the Court of Appeal. All judicial superiors have been entitled to one by one. I would just like to remind you of the rabies that existed from the judiciary. Mr. Salatas was collecting signatures to get her case back then. Seven times they tried to get her the case. Why is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u193	I shall conclude, Madam President. You're right. Incidentally, Mr Angelis, who has almost sued the judges of corruption, has again been chosen to supervise the area. Mr Salatas who was collecting the signatures at that time was also promoted, took one place, and Mr Panagiotis Athanasiou was foreclosed for the next place, the man who, for a very serious case of the Panama Papers, who Maltese journalist paid with her life, like many others, was lying for very personal reasons. He didn't go to The Hague. And he had judges lying. Such credibility is the witness that currently wants Papagelopoulos on the stand I've been watching for two and a half years. There's not even half a clue. Let him tell us with tangible proof of what Papagelopoulos did, how it affected. He proposed them: Call all those who served in justice and if one tells you that I have called, I will apologize publicly. I'm sorry about the tension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask you to keep the time. Time is five minutes. There is a relative tolerance. But in the seven minutes, please, you'll all be stopped. Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall immediately begin with restoring the historical truth and political terminology, with the ideological outline: What is a para-stater? I keep hearing about the right-wing para-state. I don't know where all those who are today talking about the paratrooper in the time they're talking about, but the definition of the parastate was given about sixty years ago by those who lived on their side and fought it. There's no right-wing or left-wing parastate. The parastate is a set of hidden mechanisms in which persons and inside and outside the institutions are used. It is a mechanism that operates outside the institutions, but is moving within the institutions. The para-state, that is, is the long hand of the state. Whoever has the state has the parastate. There is no parastate without State involvement. His tentacles begin from the state and end up in the state. It is said by the word: despite the state. And don't start now telling us that you didn't have the state and that others had it. You've got it all right. At 2: 00 a.m. you appointed the President of the Ice Bay, leaving the other highest courts headed, with amendment that you abolished all the independent authorities, with the abolition of the National Broadcasting Council, you tried to set up the SYRIZA Channel. You took the state and the parastate, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and you well set up your construction. You've changed four chiefs of the firefighting in two years. You had the state all right, and you used it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u196	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u197	Four chiefs of firefighting, which you alternated because you thought...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u199	SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, a mixture of nassism, stalinism and periphery, made the mistake of making all the regimes that it admires and with which it stands, automatically putting itself outside the scope of parliamentary democracy. Why would we do that? When you are matched by regimes such as Venezuela, Chavez and Maduro, Bolivia, Morales, Nicaragua, Santiago and Ortega, Argentina, the peronist, you do not belong to Western democracies. You have nothing to do with Eurocommunism. These were solved with Bernlingwer. There was no way...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u200	When you match Petroula's killers, what are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u202	On the subject!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, please, there is a speaker in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u204	You won't tell me what to say, sir. What I want to say from the step taken by the Greek Parliament. I told you what you have to do with parliamentary democracy. Maduro, who right now we're talking about kidnappings in Caracas to terrorize all the others when he leaves them, and your friend Ortega, who's scorning the rifle barrels. That's who you're with. That's all Berlingwer's solved. You're elsewhere. These regimes, ladies and gentlemen, have the illusion that they will always be in power and therefore that they will always be able to set up vessels, manipulate the institutions, control the media, target their political opponents and all the dissidents - all of which, of course, is invoked by the people who support them - and at the end, cover up. This is what SYRIZA did during his dark power, creepy aspects of which are revealed daily. They wanted, like all authoritarian and totalitarian regimes, to erase the past and write a permanent present, as Orwell described in '1984'. "Let's finish with the old" yelling. And how would you do that? Evidently putting the old - time representatives in prison as corrupt. There was no other way to get rid of what you were haunted for. Another way was not to tell the people: "Yes, I took you to the third memorandum, I delivered the public property to the excess, handed your loans to the foreign funds, I did everything, but look at the others, they're corrupted." That is why you tried to set up a 'NOVARTIS' case, and that is why you targeted ten political people because you did not do a job with one or two. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like a moment too. You had to exterminate all the old ones, deceive every effort all the previous ones made so that the country could walk after the adventure. And no more than accidentally Mr. Papagelopoulos spoke of the greatest scandal of the Greek state's recommendation. Nothing but accidentally Mr. Tsipras from Patras spoke of 'patriotism of hatred', aiming directly at Antonis Samaras and following the entire gebel protocol: The press began the publications, then the ministers received them, gave them to justice, justice fell upon political persons who had published the press, sent them to the House without questioning the substance, and then the examination was completed, and when the examination was over there was no competence, they declared irresponsibility and the cases were back in justice. This is how you kept everyone in hostage and tried to prove to the people that all others are corrupted, except you. And so you did your jobs at your store. Moscow's trials wanted you to set up as genuine stalinists and you wanted morals, politics, professionals and even physical extermination of all dissidents, abolishing any discrimination of powers. But, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, there is no perfect crime, and unfortunately for you, who in such a tactical way attacked and undermined democracy, your crime is not even instant. Although this reminds you of something from our recent history. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Bartzokas from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the period of governance SYRIZA is not only responsible for the injured Greek economy, it is mainly responsible for the injured, the very severely injured democracy. The attempts to alter the fundamental institutions, the foundations of our democratic culture, are not perfect, as is evident from what has been constantly revealed in recent times. One scandal succeeds the other by completely fading out the ideological and moral advantage of the "first time left" and rather of the latter. Every citizen following the news can only remain indulgent in the face of cynical turbulence, which the previous government has shown to remain in power at all costs, even at the price of the democratic state itself, which is the most refuge of the weaker. NOVARTIS Plateau and seek to eliminate political opponents, Mionis and State - "magaz" case, media control and Kalogris case, case in Eye where there were a hundred dead fellow citizens and damaged properties, because this is how the game is played: it is truly grim and incomprehensible what has come to light only last month. But the greatest attempt to harm our democratic culture is found in the field of justice by distorting the separation of powers, the independence of justice. The House today is called upon to be worthy of the circumstances and to give a clear message. The referral by Mr Papagelopoulos to the Special Court to examine his criminal responsibilities in relation to the offences allegedly committed in the performance of his duties as Deputy Minister of Justice bears enormous symbolism. It will demonstrate that the catalysts of the Constitution and of the laws, however they claim it is every word of the Constitution, no matter how much they promised in a broken-up society of the effects of the economic crisis, that they would upset us in legality are only occasional. These symbolisms are needed by the Greek society to finally change the page. They need our political and legal system to prove that in 2020 the rule of law institutional guarantees are not theoretical tools. They exist and work. The list of offences alleged to have been committed by Mr. Papagelopoulos is long and reveals the scale of the outlawing circuit and the paradox, which he and his political inspires tried to install: moral automobile in abuse of power, moral autocracy in breach of duty, breach of duty on a continuing basis, attempted blackmail, bribery of political official and employee, criminal organisation. A former judiciary and member of the SYRIZA government allegedly took advantage of his capacity if not with the encouragement of the government, certainly with the tolerance of the leading group of SYRIZA and the former Prime Minister. The above-mentioned criminal offences fully underpin the concept of a violation of the constitution. However, we cannot pretend. The wound that has suffered our democracy is not healed by the completion of the work of the pre-examination and by the referral by Mr Papagelopoulos to a special court. Now more than ever we must shield the city so that it does not take such brutal attacks again. It is not enough simply to clear up, it is not enough to punish and reveal the truth. Our obligation to create a state that is neither spoil nor maggot is more imperative than ever. That's what we have to deal with. The former Minister's referral will only be a small victory for democracy today. The real victory will be when we have managed to create a rule of law unaccounted for by opportunistic persecutors, and that is why we still have a way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mrs. Jackri has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the 70 billion that this great form of political history has brought to its mind, Mr Mitsotakis, and after the development that began with demolitions in the Greek, I would like to believe that the next major project of our Prime Minister and the 'independent' media that surrounded him will not, of course, be to create rules of equal co-management of our mineral resources in the Aegean with Turkey, but even in this case, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that the balls to the government would speak to us about the great victory of the great Greek Prime Minister, who managed to save half the hydrocarbons and not, of course, give us half of them. Such are the achievements of this great gene and heir of the Mitsotakis family: development everywhere, full support of our national rights everywhere, but above all, I would say, democracy and pluralism everywhere! If we hadn't had this modern politician, if our lives hadn't given birth to him, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that all of us modern Greeks should have invented one. Where should I begin, ladies and gentlemen? All Greeks are sleeping and waking up quiet, we know that the next day will be better in the field of economic prosperity. With Mr. Mitsotakis, we are sure that growth has come and will always stay here. We know that the rule of law will be there for all of us, punishing the bad and rewarding the good. With Kyriakos, we know that no necklace will be left unpunished. So this great mastic tradition is also the lesson presented by the New Democracy here today, which has managed once again to make the Greek Parliament laugh and democratic procedures in general. This is because the New Democracy is using the government majority to turn the House into reversed institutional comics, where here and in contrast to what is usually the case, only the evil always wins. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have an intergroup of corrupt policies which is the equivalent of their actions in the NOVARTIS scandal. Imagine a troubled woman of fifty - five standing upright, working eight and nine hours a day in a supermarket. This woman pays 700 euros, pays her contributions, she goes to work on public transport and tries to save 50 euros a week to meet her family's needs. Now imagine a corrupt minister to approach this oppressed worker who struggles in her everyday life for her life and her family and to take her out of the aprons of work these 50 euros trying to save, to give them to who? To Mr. Froze with cigars and of course save his own thing. Then this corrupt minister and the nutters of his gang pursue the prosecution prosecutor, provoke newspapers in the press, trying to convince this afflicted worker that things were not done so, that things were done somewhat differently and that in any case it was the prosecutor's fault. And then some other politicians, such as us, with unprecedented cynicism, should also become ministers, I hope not to copy the works and the days of the honorable thieves of NOVARTIS, obviously have to draw up a fascinating conclusion with which to prove three things: firstly, that they are ready and, secondly, that they belong to this same political conspiracy, where they never give one another, and thirdly, that one politician's work is not to protect his homeland and his people, but to protect those who teach him. So the scenario was written, ladies and gentlemen, and it was done perfectly in practice. The thieves became victims, the prosecutors in the disciplinary department, some other prosecutors will have a career, the Minister disqualified, the Fruzis denominated, the multinationals rose and the poor Greek citizen became even poorer. And after stealing those who stole, you are now looking to send to the Justice Council those who have obviously tried unsuccessfully to uncover them. And I would like to ask the New Democracy's dear colleagues: if this country had not been governed by a normal Prime Minister elected by the Greek people and if we had not had a normal parliamentary democracy, but has it been governed by a gang leader, as is the case in some Balkan countries, do you think that developments would be different? So you think thieves wouldn't be out there and you think the prosecutors wouldn't be in disciplinary? I, ladies and gentlemen, believe that exactly the same thing as the Prime Minister of the gang would happen. And I'm telling you all this to think about and slowly start thinking about whether you're normal government or whether you're government delusion. I would also like to ask the New Democracy honourable Members another question on the political issue at all times. You have ruled the country for many decades and throw it on the rocks every time you govern it. Throughout your governments hundreds of economic scandals have been denounced and revealed. So do Greek citizens wonder, so many scandalous decades, a bankruptcy of four hundred billion and no one has ever been revealed by New Democracy? And my voters in Pella wonder, but is this New Democracy such an honest party? And then they see some of you on TV windows whispering and shouting and getting their answers. Statistics - and that's what matters, statistics - you're the most honest party in the world. You have 100% cover and 0% conviction. I'm sure if they reveal you in the world literature, the reverend criminal organizations will rush to imitate you. As for the co-workers who compiled the finding, they passed the exam. Well done, congratulations. Good upgrade to the forthcoming remodelling and the hierarchy of the political organisation or, briefly, of which you are members. Isn't that right, Mr. Pluri? Do not fool you and give you any position of Minister to any non-existent ministry. So much work you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u209	You've taken many ministries with all the memorials you've been voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not address colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u211	So much laundry you put to rinse out to get your former neighbors and friends oil. You need to capitalize this, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u212	Madam Colleague, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u213	But I would like to tell you that everyone here, we and you, have been elected by the Greek people on a mission to serve the country by defending the public interest and, first of all, to defend the wellbeing of the country and the Greek citizens. And in this terrible situation, ladies and gentlemen, this political, journalistic and judiciary stumble you have imposed to cover a handful of people for illegal acts in the past, you are leading the country as a whole to rocks. You are also dissolving the minimum faith that Greek citizens have in the political system and, of course, you have made the country look like a European institutional parody and not a normal country of the European Union. I would like to remind you, however, that in France only recently, the former Prime Minister, Mr Fignon, following brief procedures and not after judicial proceedings such as that in Greece, which last 15 and twenty years, was sentenced to parole on matters relating to the one million and those committed in the specific case of "NOVARTIS"...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u214	Your Honor, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen - and with this I will close - I will not talk about clearance because the clearance is a great deal of talk. However, I would like to call on the healthy forces of the Greek Parliament to try for a political regularity, for the revolution of self-defence where the public prosecutor will not go to prison, the thief will not return to the windows. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, too. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Markopoulos has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for Mr Pappas. Apparently man has had enough trouble lately. Maybe he didn't have the psychic charge-- to come here to talk. It's okay. These are human. To tell the truth today, I thought we were gonna talk about the real Papaggelopoulos. But at the end of the day, with all these shops and baking them, I feel like we're talking about a bill from the Ministry of Development about trade. I do not even know whether with all these shops there are any members of the SYRIZA who have rented shops from what he recently bought with the dynamic real estate, which we see is growing in recent years in the SYRIZA party. But it is beyond all these humorous times to see why we are here. We were here because Mr. Papagelopoulos had his own agenda. I'm not saying it. Mr. Poppas said it. Because Mr. Pappa's statement suggests some people make money. A lot of money. And all that at the expense of the main store. Central persons of public and political life were targeted. In fact, not some random ones. Ten political figures and even the former Prime Minister. Watch out. The former Prime Minister, the Greek-elected Antonis Samaras, ten first-class ministers, the official Prime Minister, was ravaged. Just like other faces were smashed. Mr. Papastavrou has been rampant. Why? What did he do? That's a big crime. He was advisor to the former Prime Minister, Mr. Samaras. Mr. Minonis the businessman, Mr. Metaxas. Let's not forget, Mr. Mioney, SYRIZA worked together. I remember Mr. Haritsis, Mr. Papa, Mr. George Tsipras going to events in Tel Aviv - which I had already covered as a journalist at the time - and said great words about Mr. Miones. Of course, after he was described as political leechs. Then she was fine. In fact, we were attempting to sneeze and to the detriment of the members of the Committee of Inquiry, obviously, in order not to exercise our work, as we should have done. Thanos Plearis around fifteen times has heard what he has heard. Kostas Karagkounis was under pressure. Life Rapt, too. I have already been accused, as have other colleagues. By who? From them. they received loans from banks to make their election campaign. We'll see if they pay them back. From the shopkeepers and paragauters who made a lot of money. A lot of money. That's what Mr. Pappas said. Of those who disguised money for extreme right-wing publishers, though praising in the name of the Left. Because it's the Left See. Incidentally, we were accused of muddling by those who did not find a word to say about their partner, former MP George Caisa from Evros who admitted that he had gone on a journey with Novartis as a doctor. Still, no lips. We didn't hear anything about this trip from SYRIZA's colleagues. They must have forgotten about it. We did not hear anything about the propaganda that we received three times from SYRIZA Members during the exercise of our duties. Let me remind you that both Mr Paulakis and Mr Janakopoulos in the first days the proceedings began, we were stricken with severe characterisations. They almost tried to get us to come with them. We avoided them. And we wouldn't do it because we're different from them. Let me remind you of the daily invasions. Let me remind you of the daily remarks at our expense and the pressures they were trying to exert. We didn't hear anything about surnames and not hooded witnesses - I repeat - who testified and showed Rasputin. So the problem is what Alexis Tsipras cynically said in February 2020, if I'm not mistaken, internally. What did Alexis Tsipras say? He said that the second time his party had to check the joints of power. That's what Mr. Paulakis said. Mr. Polakis' gravity, other gravity of Mr. Tsipras. This is the plan to take over the joints of power that had an architecture from previous years and acquired a judicial structure. The main pillar of our civilisation is the rule of law. Whether some people want it, or some people don't want it. We in Europe want to see some who wanted to develop it in Venezuela of the Mediterranean and a new profile ergonomically Turkey... I don't know if you remember the Ergenecon scandal where some people were talking about a deep state. We hear it here too. How, in other words, some people tried to rupture trials in which many were found innocent after all. Some wanted to do other things. We therefore brought to light through a ten-month interrogation investigation procedure in the case of NOVARTIS. We have called for names to be spoken by judges, politicians and businessmen. No hoods. We heard audio documentaries. No cases and airplanes. We have not left 'I don't know', 'I don't remember', 'I don't know'. We heard very well. We heard deals, we heard stores, we heard people operating not as ministers but as lobbyists. I want Prime Ministers and Ministers together with public prosecutors and journalists to be set up in this way. I will close because I do not have much time and I do not want to abuse the favour that the Bureau gives us. Mr. Pappas, really, for all this, why hasn't he moved so many days legally at the expense of all those who openly accused him of such serious things? Unfortunately, he's not here. I thought he was going to lead. If he was here, I'd like to ask him: Mr. Pappa, what happened? Did the cat eat your tongue? Why don't you talk? Do we only live in TV rugs and in the comfort of interviews with a one-camera and journalists across the street? Tell us, please: Who was she, and what would you tell her? How would you force her to do what, with what authority and what authority? Who took the money a lot? What were the stores? To inform the Greek people. This "I said it to Myoneis" reminds me of something Uruguayan football players who came to Greece in the 1970s and didn't speak well Greek. You remember the dialogues. He said, "They have their own shop" and now Mr. Papapas tells us that they have their own shop," he told Mionis to a third person, meaning that Mionis has his own shop, that Mionis is making a lot of money. As if they didn't tell us well! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not take any more of your time. I shall, however, look at the representatives of the Left and those who, in fact, appreciate and appreciate them deeply. It doesn't mean ideological difference doesn't give you the right to have an appreciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u219	These are people like you, Mr Voutsi, who have been talking about ideals, ideas and ideals for years. Did you finally bring the Left to power? For this Left, the daverdzid and the para-state, have you fought for so many years on the streets, the people's struggles, the movements? Did you fight to bring in? She? Are you happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u221	I am speaking to you in particular, as former President of Parliament, a high post which you have honoured. When you said "the hope comes", your motto, was that what you had in mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u223	I'll be done. Dear friends, top musician Frank Zappa had said that socialism did not succeed in people because they like to own things. Yes, to us, who are against socialism, we like things. And what we like is freedom, the freedom that some of you tried to get us. You didn't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u225	One battle we fought so that Greece could learn the dark plans of those who brought the lyric "I fear all that will be done for me, without me". Thank you very much - very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Raguss from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is such a size of your moral and political decline that I sincerely feel the need to apologise to words. Yeah, of the few words I'm gonna use to describe you. To describe the unprecedented shocks, the undeniable scandals you have committed. First scandal, the primary and most inhumanist scandal, the "NOVARTIS" scandal, the scandal of the illegal increase in the price of "NOVARTIS" medicines, especially in the memoranda, when the living and income level of millions of Greeks and Greeks collapsed, a scandal that has now been proven with dozens of undeniable elements, testimonies, findings, both in Greece and the United States of America. But you don't even care about it. No point in your concern. Dozens, hundreds of people have been heard. No unequivocal and undeniable element is of no interest to you. Why? Because all you care about is the cover-up and discharge of the entrants of the primary scandal. You've actually been identified with the largest folklore, with the largest rodents of public money, and this political stigma will accompany you forever. All these 12 months and in and out of the pre-review committee, a political plan is being implemented, the avengerial political persecution of your political opponents in the face of Dimitris Papagelopoulos. The second scandal, the superstition scandal of the public prosecutors who tried to investigate the inhuman scandal 'NOVARTIS'. You have, of course, already created a bright symbol of justice with a name: Eleni Toulopakis. For persecuting the Prosecutor of Corruption Helen Tulupaki, who is persecuting economic crime, is actually persecuting the persecutors of political corruption, you are in fact protecting the jurors politicians, protecting the political misasa. That's what you do, persecuting Helen Tulupaki. That is, in the final analysis, irreparable damage to the rule of law in itself. After the persecution of Helen Toulopakis, you are now worthy not just the representatives, but you are the leaders of the corrupt Greece. You are now worthy of political immorality. You are the enemy of the country's productive forces, the reason these cannot be developed. Finally, you really don't even deserve our complaint or our outcry and the outcry of the Greek people. That is why I feel the sincere need once again to apologise to the words I have spent on describing and referring to you in the New Democracy, the 'NOVARTIS Republic' by Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Kyranakis has the floor from New Democracy and immediately thereafter Mrs Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Madam President. The way in which the previous speaker, Mr Raguss, but also many other SYRIZA officials, and Mr Papagelopoulos himself, defend with such passion a prosecutor who handled the way he handled such a critical case, is precisely the proof that the previous government did not do so self-evidently, stay away from the judicial and public prosecutors, stay away from justice and let her be truly independent. When we started the first meetings of the pre-review committee, when we set up and started calling witnesses to start lighting up the truth, none of us, at least, in the majority, could imagine what we would see for eight months and, above all, the ones that have been unfolded lately and have seen the light of publicity. The image produced by both the deposits and the documents and by any file format which had entered the pre-review committee is as follows. In SYRIZA command there was a central store. There was a central store that took action to make money, a lot of money, as Mr Markopoulos said, and as we heard from the soundboard, from Mr Papapa's own lips. Mr. Tsipras wanted through this central store to control justice through Mr. Papagelopoulos, to check the media through Mr. Papapas and to co-operate with a para-state through Mr. Kammenos. There was, of course, a hunger in the course of this case: a branch which followed a different course, a branch in justice, a paragon, but which was using the exact same method, a method of blackmailing judicial and public prosecutors. For those who did not follow the orders of the central store or the paragon, they had to make extortional headlines of friendly newspapers to the SYRIZA government. Although this was not working, disciplinary measures had to be taken, no matter whether there was at the end an acquittal, and even if that did not work, they somehow led them to resignation and removal, because they were spoiling the job. But it is time, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, when the customers of this shop begin and get revenged. Do not make any impression that these former 'clients' will use extreme means to demonstrate your responsibilities. Because I ask you to answer each other with your hand in the heart: if there was even a sounder, even a video - as you said there was videos about Mr. Venizelos or Mr. Pikrammenos - which shows money or suspicion of money, would you not have made it a flag? I'm addressing the most moral ones of you who exist. With your hand in the heart, do you think your fellow Members who are every day on television wouldn't have made a flag of that kind of sound, a video like that? Here you put false witnesses and make whole statements, based on which political faces were prosecuted, your political opponents, to say that a black limo was put in the Big Maxim's parking lot and made a suitcase of money for the former Prime Minister. With these ridiculous testimony you have chased political opponents, but who are now taking you to the end. You didn't think they'd take you to the end, but that's exactly what's going on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not go too far, Madam President. What annoyed me most of all is what was heard by the former Prime Minister's lips today in plenary, who, not least, told us that he would exchange consensus on national issues and government support on national issues if his former Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, was not persecuted. He came here and dared to say that Mr Papagelopoulos was being prosecuted and that would cost the consent he would give to national issues. Such a shame I sincerely did not expect me to feel as a new Member and I hope that no one will ever feel in this Parliament again. At least, ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that the sea has any borders, nor did we tell the people who protected the borders at Evros, nor did we say when a question of armaments was raised that with Turkey we would risk it. We are another party, one that told you Bravo when in October 2018 the Armed Forces with political guidance - I will admit it - of the previous government did the national duty and interrupted the searches in the Aegean Sea of the Turkish research vessel. This is your duty to support Greece, not the government, but Greece, which must become as strong as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u230	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are living a special historic moment. We are taking part in a very serious sitting of the House, in conditions of exacerbation of Turkish aggression, against which we must be united as a fist. And is this House to decide whether or not it wants the Papaggiopoulou case to be closed in full, the charge of a unique construction in the historical chronicles of our democracy, to incriminate political opponents? Does the House or does it not want to fall full of light everywhere and give justice? That's what we're talking about today. And the various complicated, rhetoric shapes of some, the tactics of "ball in the platform", simply expose even more those who say it and show even more effort to cover it. Today all the Members of the Greek Parliament should say yes, we should look into it all by the end of the day. But they don't say it, even though they know what happened. However, they are all co-responsible, and if it were not to do with guilty secrets, with regiment practices, anti-democratic practices at the limits of totalitarianism. Ladies and gentlemen, some people have now remembered 'the dirty '89'. They are just the ones that their political ancestors and today’s guides took the lead in the referral of Andreas Papandreou. They forget, however, that the PASOK then in the Koskotta scandal called for "cleaning" and voted the same for the referral of its members. But what do I say? When we talk about '89 we are talking about a leader like Andreas Papandreou and a party like PASOK, we are not talking about Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA who obviously want to be a little bit of everything. So what happened? On May 18, 2018, the Greek Parliament lived one of its darkest moments in modern Greek history. Unacceptable and festive ten top political officers stood on the wall, with no evidence of almost everyone, with protected witnesses who told them that they heard'somewhere','sometime', 'by some' and the rumour that the famous FBI documents existed. Everything has now been proven simply false and results of the radio works of a circuit which, apparently, obviously had civil protection to the highest degree. They set the ballots. A lousy picture has been set, which will haunt this Chamber for years. And the Members of the then majority went one, one and voted in the direction of the SYRIZA leadership. It was an image of maximum institutional inadmissibility, of tramplement of any democratic right, of political destructiveness. The aim was clear: the indictment, the break-up, the hostage of those leading against the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, who, as we note, learned that Mr. Tsipras was probably following Mr. Kammenos after the complaints by the NDP about the operation of a para-state circuit with his participation, as well as with active and retired officers. What a world! What democrats and so-called left-wings who want to lead the progressive party of our country! Everything that was supported by "birth '18" fell. Folders entered the file. And basically with the FBI's official documents that finally came - despite Mrs Toulupaki's objections - all cases have been officially translated into almost all cases, all have proved to be fairy tales. The plan was revealed. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Since Mr. Tsipras was unable to withstand and said in the recent interview with Mr. Papachela that maybe the mistake was that we referred ten and not fewer, three or four. What does that phrase say to us? Is it not an official admission to the political process, in which prosperous judges agreed to play the role of the head of the clerks? Four and a half years in the government and, in the name of your unscrupulous and undemocratic choices, you have muddled it. You are welcome to 'NOVARTIS'. You never checked it, never imposed a fine, never checked thousands of health workers who were known to be their names. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The new Parliament therefore has a duty to look into this case and these complaints. He's made a decision. Set up the pre-inquiry. She worked exemplary and persistently, despite the constant tripods you sought in her work. And today the Papaggiopoulou case takes the course of the dialog. The conclusion of the preliminary investigation charges the former Deputy Minister of State for eight offences. At the same time, the Prosecutor of the Prosecutors' Prosecutors prosecuting Ms. Toulupakis for a felony and five defects. Mr Tsipras said that this is not the case in Latin America. I think he knows much better in Latin America what is going on, since Mr Maduro was a model and a model. The Pope who visited Latin America, along with Mr Artemio, certainly know and can say more. But I, ladies and gentlemen, draw the following conclusions: in Greece, democracy works and seems to know to defend itself against those who want to corrupt it. That the crucial issue in democracy is that there should be an institutional counterweight to the majority power. And it seems that, despite any corrosion, these counterweights worked, fortunately. That those who believe in the absolute control of the "commons of power" should not be very proud of this democratic conscience, because democracy means autonomy, independence of justice, freedom of speech. Let me not suggest two things to you, totally friendly. Do not try to show up as fighters who are now chasing them the system that you supposedly went to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u232	Your Honor, you need to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u233	I'll be back in a minute, Madam President. You acted as an older than the old shows and dangerous elements of cynicism and totalitarianism. Do not often say that the second time will be otherwise, because that is how you scare the middle-democratic citizen. Because if all you have done is done without control of the joints of power, imagine what will happen if you come in a second time and check them out. We are, Madam President, going to do our duty. The rest is done by justice. That's the way it has to be. But I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, because in record time, like you've been ready for some time, you've collected a lot of skeletons in your wardrobe. What is revealed on a daily basis for your top executive contacts, for dialogues that the Prime Minister was present, the Kalogrica complaints, the dialogues with Mionis for shops and group, the creepy complaints about Eye all make it necessary to investigate them from justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u234	Your Honor, please conclude. You've gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u235	Madam President, one final comment, very briefly, please warmly. You know, with all that is happening, with the incredible Turkish aggression, the confession to defend the country's sovereign rights is now more necessary than ever and is not haggled. So, ladies and gentlemen, it does not go into the balance with the impunity of those controlled for offences, nor with the decommissioning of the rule of law and justice, nor with compensation and amnesty for the action of misrepresentative and non-stated mechanisms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u236	And I, my colleague, thank you very much. Mr Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a long-term investigation of the case with the examination of several witnesses and bodies of documents, the Committee of Inquiry has come up with a good, fair and substantiated conclusion. We said they'd all come to the light and come. We have said that we are not condemning, but we are investigating, as we have a constitutional obligation, and that is what we have done. Whether anyone is innocent or guilty will be judged by Greek justice. It is therefore time for the independent Greek justice to take a decision. And that is what we have to decide today. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as the end of 2016, the political life of the place has been polarized, poisoned and tarnished by the 'NOVARTIS' case. Then the government made it a flag. Both the former Prime Minister and the ministers, including Mr Papagelopoulos, together with a friend of the then media government, started proclaiming the involvement of political persons, even former Prime Minister, without any evidence of a protected witness until then, without any document being given. In the House and everywhere, people were talking about an FBI document involving - allegedly - specific political persons. But this document has been searched, we have asked for it in the pre-examination committee and we have never received it, because it was quite simply not there. Some people knew beforehand what was going to happen. The follow-up, known as political persons, were unjustly targeted, smuggled with tons of mud, investigated and finally in the absence of even signs - and as close as the 2019 elections were - began to be waived by public prosecutors. The attack and mudology from the media-friendly government at that time were so coordinated that they could predict and publish statements of protected witnesses before they were even given. In other countries, management of the NOVARTIS case led to the recovery of large compensation. Here it was used to exterminate political opponents. Why did you, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response to claim compensation from NoVARTIS for the Greek State? Absolutely nothing. You've invested only in lies and mud. But you know? Lies have short feet. The truth always prevails and is revealed. And in the end, the true guilty ones are led to justice. And our justice, like our democracy, are strong and can react to any attempt to manipulate. But the issue here is not simple, because it is not about any attempt to manipulate, but about trying to manipulate judicial authority by the executive. So this is an institutional issue, and it is about the functioning of our society that is about our democracy. Everything included in our finding, but what comes daily into the light of publicity, is not tolerated by our democracy. They leave a heavy shadow on her. Targeting and attempting to smash political opponents, which in the end in front of the total absence of data is exempted. Pressures to judicial officers by ministers who denounce them, the judicial officers themselves. Attacks on distinguished judiciary officials from the media who force judiciary officials, others demand that others be excluded from being afraid to speak. Debates in the Maximos Concert Hall with the participation of Ministers for pending criminal cases of individuals claiming sums or expenses, with cynical confessions of the protagonists themselves. Maybe because it can't be done otherwise in fear of new audio documentaries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You also remember the famous Road Map, which provided for future rulings on Judicial Councils and Public Prosecutors and, of course, shops that make money, pressures on witnesses and others. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, is this the first time on the left that you have not been able to control the joints of authority? Really, how do you visualize the second time with the control of these joints? Ladies and gentlemen, Greek justice is and must remain independent. And in the functioning of the democratic culture, the separation of powers and the functioning of justice must not leave any shadow. And we won't let go. We mustn't make any discounts. The figures are sufficient. And it is time for Greek justice to shed plenty of light on this dark case. With respect to the presumption of innocence we have to decide today to allow justice to decide unaffected on possible criminal responsibilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we must, ladies and gentlemen, do what is self-evident. But the political responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, are clear and burden you with what has been done in the four and a half years of your own governance. And for these we have not yet heard any serious explanation or self-criticism. For political responsibilities, the people decided a year ago, without even lighting up all the things that have come to this day. And he'll do it again in the future, there's no doubt about it. However, for the criminal responsibilities of the former Deputy Minister of Justice and of which he is judged elsewhere, justice should be decided. And this opportunity for justice must be given today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u238	The President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Gennimata, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing very critical moments in the course of our country. Turkish aggression takes dangerous proportions. A few days ago Europe, once again, unfortunately sent the Greek bells the debate on Turkey's actions. We said at that time that it preserves insecurity and uncertainty in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. Unfortunately, not even twenty-four hours have passed and what has been proved? It has been shown that every delay depopulates Turkey and leads it to new illegal and aggressive actions at the expense of Greece, at the expense of Europe. I hope now, after these developments, that the Prime Minister understands that the sanctions we were talking about should have been discussed and should have already been imposed, because that is all Turkey understands. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] There is no doubt that our readiness and determination now is to prevent any attempt to violate our sovereign rights. It is the responsibility of the Prime Minister and is responsible because he has been stubbornly refusing dialogue with the political leaders all this time. We'd have formed a national line. We'd have created a stiff inner front. Our voice would be strong. They would all understand that we are not joking, that we are determined, but we can be effective at the same time in defending our national rights. There is no doubt that private meetings tomorrow are important. It was necessary, but it's not enough. So we repeat it once again. The time has come, Mr Mitsotakis, after these developments, for the Council of Political Heads to finally meet, because now is the time for unity. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] So leave the secret diplomacy and the arrogant logic of the government's self-sufficiency. In critical national issues, the Greek people expect us all to stand up to the circumstances. That is why I would like to say by hand to the heart that I find it incomprehensible that the Civic Anti-Civilization struggling, in a way which brutally offends our democracy, with the necessary support it must give this time to the interests of the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The Change Movement, ladies and gentlemen, is here and is determined. It is our priority to be a catalyst to ensure unity of the nation and of the people at such crucial times for our country. Besides, everyone knows it's deep engraved in the DNA of our own party. Yes, our party is the patriotic party that has always put the interest of the Greek people and the place over small-scale interests. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I now come to the decision of the European Council. At last Europe took the step forward. We're out. The Change Movement gave a significant battle through the group of European Socialists. And that's where we had a problem, so we could be honest and be realistic. We have fought a great deal so that the money can be mostly transferable rather than loans, not accompanied by new memos. Of course, the bazaars and compromises with those who are obsessed with austerity led to discounts that we did not want from the very beginning. Transfers decreased and the loans increased. Significant funding has been cut, which concerns health, concerning a fair transition to the post-lignite era. Here we were with the Prime Minister and we were talking about them and I said, "You have no resources, how do you commit 2023?" And now they're cutting more. And, of course, they have also cut resources for modernising agricultural production, for research, for innovation. The period of application has decreased. The worst thing is that there is a process in which the 'problemful' countries, as we used to call it, will have the opportunity to 'principle' the programmes of countries in the south. However, ladies and gentlemen, for Greece a very important opportunity is being opened, and that is why it is very important that we manage these resources. We must also manage them with a plan, but also with a vision. Under no circumstances should these resources go to shut holes, spend again with customer logic. Finally, we must build the new production model and put forward the reconstruction of the Greek economy. We are talking about all this, not just with experts, because we have seen where the work of only the experts ends. We are in line with the Greek society, with its representatives, with the productive bodies. We talk with them every day. And in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, we will present our own proposal on how these resources should be used effectively. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people experience the consequences of the pandemic every day, but not just of the pandemic. Unfortunately, it is also experiencing the consequences of the government's policies, which is dealing with the issue with a lack of and with oligopoly. I just came from Crete and was in Rhodes, Komotini, Drama, Kastoria, Florina. I've turned too many prefectures, but also tourists' prefectures. Tourism, ladies and gentlemen, is being tried hard. Very few hotels have opened with very low completeness. I don't know how they're gonna make it winter. Small and medium-sized enterprises are narrowing and their banks are depriving them of liquidity. Farmers are being abandoned. Two and a half hours we were talking about in Messara. It's a huge problem. Of course, workers have already been convicted by the government in the doctrine of 'half-time and half-wage'. As far as we are concerned, we have tabled our proposals in good time, the interim programme, which is always on the table and gives solutions. Because our aim from the outset was to keep society up and alive the economy. Unfortunately, the government has not listened to us and today they are running and they are not enough. And I say this because every day that passes it is understandable that the country cannot withstand a new lockdown, neither general nor local. They must be very careful, then, and they must know that we are following them at every step with the alalum that has been imposing on them over the past few years with their policies. The situation for the Greek people is particularly difficult and within this critical hour there is a Civic Opposition that has lost every trace of credibility. What is revealed for SYRIZA’s works and days creates a appalling picture and highlights a deep, authoritarian, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-democratic, anti-democratic perception, stained para-states. I wonder: What does this have to do with progressive power? What does this have to do with the history of the Left in Greece? Illegal circuit, shops, grocery stores, parastate and illegal media control actions! And now, of course, the horrific revelations about what happened in Matty. We have, of course, been telling them since 2018, and we have been the only ones to shout, especially for the hideous communication show with the participation and presence of the then Prime Minister of Mr. Tsipras who was trying to cover up responsibilities when they knew that people were burning. Of course, it is appalling what is revealed and how the fire brigade was working, letting areas burn to make the cleansing of their own children. SYRIZA's manipulations, there is no doubt that they were both provocative and unacceptable. They have managed our lives without any sense of responsibility and without a democratic morale. This is the reality with the first political responsibility of Mr. Tsipras, who, as Prime Minister, knew everything, took part in many of the meetings and now continues to cover the root causes of all these circuits and behaviours. So Mr. Tsipras has a great political responsibility for institutional derailment on his day. SYRIZA does not have the moral stature and political credibility to perform his role as a Civic Opposition. And you want me to tell you something after all? The famous moral advantage of SYRIZA's so-called left was the biggest mistake of Postmultition. This can, of course, be good for Mr. Mitsotakis. This moral decline of SYRIZA may suit him, because he thinks he may be undisturbed to apply his conservative policies. But he's making a big mistake, and he's making a big mistake because the Change Movement is here. So we, the Change Movement, are at odds with the conservative policies of the Right, we are shielding democracy and the real support for the Greek society. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, today the House debates and decides on a dark history, a political structure, a multi-parallel outlaw that has now come to light with details and names. Since the first day we have made it clear how we will do everything in our power to investigate this case and to apportion the responsibilities wherever they may be. The existence and operation of a dark, outlawing circuit, a circuit that was not derived from virginity, has now been demonstrated. He was already born through the right. And, of course, as many people know, perhaps the older people were targeting PASOK and the democratic party, but in recent years SYRIZA has been the one who adopted it and fully adopted it and has been fruitlessly and ruthlessly fruited. He bet upon their own know-how to build his own para-state, salivate the institutions and control power in this way. Mr. Papaggiopoulou, known as caramanic governance, has been the coordinator of an entire system of misappropriation in the public prosecutor's body. No problem has SYRIZA and no hesitation whatsoever had Mr. Tsipras personally commissioned the fight against allegedly corruption to the head of Mr. Karamanlis' secret services. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I will not go back to SYRIZA and Karamanlis relations. We've been through it many times. I would like to say that only PASOK connected its name with reforms, with transparency, justice and the rule of law. How do we do it? We're not made of the same stuff. We have other historical routes, roots, prints and our print is positive, it is institutional and indelible. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, do not see. Refugee both the indications and the evidence. You continue to cover up for those responsible and their actions. You don't clear and this choice is conscious. In the false dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, the Members of Parliament in the committee responded clearly: And scandal and construction, because there was - and we revealed it - the drug scandal and especially the NOVARTIS scandal, not only of it, but of other multinationals who adopted illegal and unfair practices. And that is where the deepest consequence of this process lies. What happened here? Greece became the very opposite of what happened in the rest of the world. By guiding this outlawous circuit, the prosecution of corruption essentially refused to investigate the real responsibilities for the actual scandal of the unfair practices of the multinationals. Lucky? I don't think so. The cover-up to the unfair practices of NOVARTIS has so far excluded our country from financial compensation. And that's not what we're saying now. We have been yelling at it in this Chamber since 2018. However, SYRIZA and New Democracy have parallel responsibilities in the field of medicine from the expenditure explosion before 2009 to the refusal to invoke the drug in 2015. Both of these parties have mismanaged public money in the field of health. I repeat very quickly and briefly, because we have said so many times, that the launching of the pharmaceutical expenditure by the Government of New Democracy in 2004-2009 has had a huge impact on the derailment of the economy, which has finally led to the crisis and the memoranda, and this has also been attempted to keep New Democracy and SYRIZA. To this day they are struggling for it. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] However, there are also the numbers that are responding, because waste in the New Democracy had reached 12.3 billion in the drug and with our own interventions - not by magic and blossoms, but by clashes, with reforms with great interests - we reached 2.6 billion in 2014 and that was for the benefit of the Greek people. Then, of course, some were rocking us. We were fighting ourselves. So let's go to this real scandal. Some have decided to set up a whole procession, a real deed. In the face of your own knit, we demanded transparency. We said: 'Everything in the light of everyone and everywhere, give responsibility...' - I repeat - '... wherever they are.' However, that is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a duty to finally introduce institutional security barriers so that we can strike the evil at its root and not find ourselves in a few years' time to discuss the same problems in the political system again. That is our responsibility today, to look forward. So, ten months after the committee was set up, this procedure ends with Parliament's decision today. The Change Movement has taken a clear stand in favour of the referral of the former Deputy Minister of Justice, and now I believe that after today's decision justice will have, because everything - I repeat - must come to light and everyone in light is judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pappas has the floor and the New Democracy parliamentary representative immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Madam President. Today's debate is taking place in the light of stormy developments and the heavy shadow of events both in national issues and in the economy. Our economy has come into a deep recession and it is absolutely certain that the majority of this House here have no sense of events. Here comes the undershoot of events, but the majority think it will salvage something from a systematic attempt to divert. We have developments in the economy with the recession, we have the unfavourable prospect of implementing the Pissaridis report, which we too want to see to open a debate. And, of course, we also have developments in Greek-Turkish, which are the result, unfortunately, of both diplomatic and operational government flaws. What, then, is the government majority doing? A systematic diversion. Starting with "NOVARTIS". And I hear speeches here today as if nothing had intervened. Where is the NOVARTIS scandal? You yourself confessed that there was no indictment, because you widened the indictment. I heard no mention of the fact that the company itself admitted that it needed Greece to benefit. Do you want to forget about that confession? Didn't it happen? Are you going to claim compensation from the company for the benefit of the government, or are we going to have to pay them for mental suffering? These questions, I think, are deaf and before the Greek people, your efforts, ladies and gentlemen, are funny. You're done with "NOVARTIS", you went to my targeting. Here I would like to say something for a minute. Firstly, on the issue of channelling, you have a lot of nerve, don't you? Thirty years the Greek State had not collected one euro for licenses, not one euro! And note what arguments you make in the public debate, many of them are epic, because they have been tested in the Council of State. There has been no competition that has passed a larger, multiple sieve with several applications for interim measures, applications for annulment throughout the tendering procedure for licences. Nobody in Greek public! I would also like to remind you that, on the basis of this competition, the National Broadcasting Council unanimously decided that licences were valued at EUR 250 million. And instead of coming here to ask for an apology, which you had no more than thirty years to collect, former ministers from this Step and the media - have you not due an explanation? And well, you didn't get the permits - I'm deliberately saying - the EUR 150 million from advertising tax and frequency charges, why didn't you collect them? I personally know, yes, there are some circles that will not forgive me or our sideliness what we have done and have applied for the first time the Constitution on the television field, but you know because the world has mind and knowledge, your arguments are tested and measured - we learn - in polling and jumping from one theme to another. Monon: Yes, sir. It's obvious that it doesn't bother you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need two minutes and your understanding, Madam President, thank you. It is obvious that it does not bother you that a whole systemic monitoring circuit had been set up here and the speaker also suffered physical monitoring beyond everyone else. I will tell you this, however, and note: Those who are moving that there are other tapes, think that they are addressing it to you, because they have been your best friends for too long. But you also pressed your shoe there, because what came out of the conversation that this gentleman illegally recorded? He has shown our own claim that our intervention was at the request of the country of Israel - first of all - and of course he has left many unanswered questions about the blundering points in the conversation, which have given you arguments to come here and to stone. So I'm asking now: In a little while, Antonis Samaras will come up to this step, who is hiding...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u242	How's he hiding? He's coming!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u243	...so answer what happened in 2013 and why he told Philippaki publisher "Don't touch!"... I'm coming to you, don't talk now, I'm coming to you too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u244	Talk to me in the plural!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u245	So he told the publisher Philippaki, Samaras, "Don't bother Miones and Papastavros because they have helped us." Would it not be an act of political bravery for Samaras to come to the pre-examination, Mr. President? It would be. He didn't! Would it not be an act of political bravery to come and look at against Papagelopoulos? It would be. He didn't! Why didn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u246	Maybe even Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u247	Why didn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u249	That's the political courage you don't have!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u250	If your arguments run out of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u251	Because, therefore, NOVARTIS has confessed to its compromise with the US State that it needed and had a lot of...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u252	Talk about shops and money! Now don't give me that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u253	Mr Colleague, please, let the speaker finish and whoever goes up on the Step will answer! Please keep quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u254	This Step is sacred and requires a level to which it is evident that the Froze officials cannot respond to this level. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I think they should be more careful. I sincerely believe that Mr Samaras will take the opportunity and go up to this Step will give these answers, because we all suddenly understood that there is a thin blue line linking two huge public money-sharing scandals in Greece, a list of Lagard and "NOVARTIS". Look at the anthropogeography. Are they the same persons recycled? What do we have here? The national tax evasion and severance of public money? So is this the eleventh, the 'dream team'? Anyway, I think you've learned your lessons and from this story, it has been proven that you are the ones who have worked and used...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u255	You need to close down slowly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u256	I'm closing, Madam President, just give me a second. It has been shown that you are the ones who have worked, you have made political use of a statute and a para-state of surveillance, and I am very sure that we will have interesting developments and it will be demonstrated if you have already orchestrated it. And that's what you're gonna have to answer. And the horror of the last few days, I think I should leave her in business. You're really indignant. It is misery what you are doing and it seems that you have not learned lessons, you do not read history, it is the endemic feature of the Right, but you know that 2020 is neither 1965 nor 1989.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u258	For the money, the stores, we didn't know... Where is he? Where is he? On the agenda!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u259	Mr Colleague, please, we are in the Chamber, please! Colleague, you're in plenary, please! Now Mrs Rapti has the floor from New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the findings of the majority Members of the special committee of inquiry, all the evidence clearly shows that the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papagelopoulos, intervened with the political tolerance of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in open criminal cases and formed them in a way that could create a financial benefit for him and his colleagues, but also a political benefit for the then government of SYRIZA. As mentioned, the finding of the majority Members before us suggests that the criminal prosecution should be exercised against the former Deputy Minister, as there are far-reaching evidence of his guilt about the offences of the moral automobile in malicious and defective abuse of power, moral automobile, breach of duty, breach of duty on a continuing basis, attempted blackmail, bribery of a political official, bribery of a gang. Furthermore, any prosecution of the House against the former Minister of Justice and the Judiciary will also take over his members, the participants in the criminal offences, so that, in the event of prosecution, they may also be identified, as well as their subjection to the judge and the judiciary, in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 86 of the Constitution and the Implementing Law on the liability of Ministers. For the present case, the evidence obtained during the pre-examination is literally overwhelming about how to organise, structure, action and operation of the Pappiggopoulos misconduct and the subsequent execution of the above criminal offences. In particular, these elements consist, as we have heard, in the statements of the senior prosecutors, such as Ms. Rykos and Mr. Angelis who reported extortion, in order to build the exorbitant persecutions against the ten political opponents of SYRIZA, in documents demonstrating that the famous protected witnesses "Maximum Sarafis" and "Catherine Kelesis" illegally joined witness protection regimes, as they expected economic benefit in the same case, in the extrajudicial compromise between the USA and "NOVARTIS" which does not identify a involvement of Greek politicians and confirm our conviction that the "Raspotin" mechanism don't illegally tooled the FBI documents, precisely to give evidence to the oaths of these hooded witnesses, in clear and personal knowledge given testimonies, as well as to the multitude of papers. Just listening to the relevant villages, but also to the way Mr Pappas says about the prosecutor's corruption is enough to draw up sound and clear conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, the main pillar of our democratic culture is the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers. What separates modern democracies from totalitarianism is the functioning of the institutions within this rule of law, with a view to respect for human rights and the independence of justice. In the free societies, the governments are not seeking the hindrances of the power they must control, but respect the independence of the other powers and, in particular, of the judiciary, which is, of course, the refuge of every citizen and the guarantee that he will not be wronged. The governance of the SYRIZA - ANEL, having as a model other countries which are certainly not renowned for their democratic function, had prepared us that its main aim would be to mobilise institutions, the media and justice itself. This was a political assessment that we saw evolving with the full tolerance of the leading group and then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, who certainly bears the political responsibility of trying to extermination without any elements of his political opponents and manipulation of the institution's independence. This policy, however, has been strengthened by the inconsistent evidence which has seen the light of publicity. We literally watched with the breath of judges to be watched, the top ministers to talk to people, who at the time were controlled by justice and described the operation of Maximos on the government of SYRIZA as a shop that does work, while there was the group of Mr Papagelopoulos who has his own agenda and his own outsourcing, according to Mr Papa. Mr. Pappas asked natural persons to blame his wife without any evidence at the time of the Chief of Staff in order to obtain happy judicial decisions. They transferred file records investigated by justice to the ministerial offices and within the Great Maximos. There were meetings where they blackmailed citizens and arranged for open felony cases to be solved, asking for money to be paid to third parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The top fact of all is that they orchestrated the judicial extermination of ten their political opponents, aiming precisely at the pursuit of party benefits. The peculiarity of this particular minister's economic transaction and acts of corruption is therefore beyond the peculiarity of our democratic culture, i.e. the independent functioning of the powers of the state, which is guaranteed by the provision of Article 26 of the Constitution. The emergence of all these illegal practices has as main objectives, on the one hand, to address all these cases before the judiciary and, on the other, to examine them with the guarantees laid down by our legal system and, on the other, to ensure that they are never repeated in the future. To know, in other words, every future power to account for those who drugize our democracy and flirt with totalitarian practices, abuse their institutional position. Our Member, therefore, is in favour of the country being shielded from such acts in the future, in order to prevent those who are subjected to such anti-democratic attitudes. For this reason, I urge you to vote in favour of the proposal to prosecute the former Deputy Minister of Justice separately for any alleged act or omission, as defined and specified in the finding submitted to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Georgiadis now has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would just like to remind you that we made an agreement this morning in the morning, that the speakers who are involved in this matter will have the Bureau's tolerance of time. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day for me. I will try to speak calmly for the Greek people to understand what we have all been through these three years and why, unfortunately, I am personally entirely sure that what we are accustomed to you will prove beyond doubt at the end of the judicial procedure, namely that you have - some, obviously not all of SYRIZA, but certainly Mr Papagelopoulos and certainly not alone - the biggest political project that Greece has experienced since the establishment of the newest Greek state, a project designed to destroy Greek democracy and which, in my opinion - I must say this - is much heavier than simply misuse of power. I agree with Evangelos Venizelos and the documentation of the crime of last betrayal. But, before I get into the facts, I have a few answers to the specifics that have been heard. First, Mr Giola, to whom I will give the opportunity after my speech to take the floor and correct what he said. He described me as a'subject'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u263	Wrong. I call it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u264	If you fix it, it's all right. Of course I'm not indicted. Mrs. Toulupakis, after three years of research against me, did not even give me the name of the suspect. I have been locked up for three years in a preliminary investigation without the prosecutor deciding if I am even a suspect. I mean, he hasn't even found any shades of clues. Because if he had found it, he could have asked for the exercise of my persecution. But then we'll come to them. And I'm coming to Mr. Lappa. It is characteristic that he spoke twenty-five minutes. The debate is about voting in favour of the proposal for a referral by Mr Papagelopoulos. In the twenty-five minutes of his speech, therefore, Mr. Lappas did not mention the name Papagelopoulos once. Mr. Lappa, your speech was out of the question. That's a good speech, but not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u265	SCAI doesn't have to say it myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u266	Well, it obviously also has a political substance why the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Papagelopoulos, did not mention. This is something that should be particularly concerned about Mr Papagelopoulos and not us. But Mr. Lappas made a very big reference to health examination and to how terrible things he discovered. I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, you have done a health check, which I have the honour of having tabled twice, which has kept more of all the examinations throughout the history of the Greek Parliament. For people to understand, I was a year of Minister of Health and the exam, which, by 85% of her time, investigated my term of office, lasted two years. Can you tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, when did you bring the conclusion of the health review to plenary? You handed it over to the then President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, and, in accordance with the parliamentary procedure, Mr Voutsi should put it in the debate, so that Parliament can know what you have done for two years as members of this committee of inquiry. So it is good for the Greek people to learn about how many terrible findings you found, that we did not find the time to have a debate in plenary, to discuss what you did two years in the examination. You completed your examination and buried it in a drawer, because you did not want the debate to continue in plenary. However, since Mr Lappa, you also had the nerve to talk about the cost of medicine, could you then tell us from the Minutes how long in its two years of operation has the investigation of the medicine been conducted? You want to hear? Two years, forty-five seconds! 'Yes, we do not have competence when judiciary examines' and closed it. Two years you've been dealing with CDC, Henry Dunnan, with the various charges! About the medicine we've been swept into and the billions we've lost, you spoke to the Inquisition in two years forty-five seconds! You were so interested in the medicine! You're liars, Pharisees and hypocrites, unfortunately, Mr. Lappa! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But now we're going to do that. Both Mr Lappas and, indeed, Mr Tsipras, as well as Mrs Gerovas, in the out-of-court shop, which I will then come to, and all of you in the channels have now found a new tape. What do you think? We live in the era of the tape, and our democracy is at risk from the time of the tape. You're all saying that. That's new. Let's see, then, why our people say, "Be careful when you dig each other's pit, don't fall in it yourself"! Mr. Papagelopoulos had the nerve to talk to us about the time of the tape. I submit for the minutes Article 65 of Law No.4356/2015. The rapporteur was Mr Dimitrios Papaggiopoulou. It was the change of the Criminal Code that made the use of the tape legal. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Be careful, until SYRIZA comes to power, the use of the tape was illegal evidence. Which party made the use of the tape legal? The party that today says democracy is at risk from the tape! You're so ridiculous! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But now let's remember the story. Mrs. Gerovali isn't here. I was waiting for her, after she gave me the honor of sending me the out-of-court, answering her, but it's okay, she'll see them from the Minutes. Mr. Papa, Mr. Kalogritsa has submitted that he took 3 million euros from the company 'CC' with your own intervention and finally these 3 million euros, because they did not go to the permits because they failed your plan, according to your own suggestion - that is what Mr. Kalogritsa said - to publish the paper 'DOCUMENTO', which was made, he says, to support SYRIZA. That's Mr. Kaloger's statement. Mr. Vaxvanis has not questioned all this statement. All he said was that he was not involved himself because the first period was an official, and after a certain period he became an editor. The first edition of the newspaper “DOCUMENTO” has been published with the 3 million CCC by the publisher Kalogritsas, recommended by Nikolaos Pappas, according to his statement. That's what Mr. Kalogratis says. If you want - I've told you many times - sue Mr. Kalogerica. But, I see you, Mr. Pappa, laughing, you have some tightening to sue Calagris! I guess we understand why, Mr. Pappa, and cut the cunts! So let's go now. The first card, then, published for SYRIZA and Poppa spending, v. Calogrits, has bags of money, ruffles and in the background bugs. And it presents a sound documentary - a tape, during your friendly debate today - that arrived at Mr. Paulakis's hand and testified it to the judge and the prosecutor, to check me out for the CDC. Of course, after four years there was absolutely nothing for me and I wasn't even prosecuted! I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] But, Mr Lappa, I am very surprised that you were in this examination when we were talking about that sound, which I would inform you that the investigation procedure was rejected as a forgery. It's a new development. So, I'm saying, when you brought the tape against Georgiadi and CEDEFOP and Pouli and the others, were the tapes good? Then did you like the tapes? Now do you mind the tapes? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Didn't you remember all this, Mr. Lappa, for tearing out the morning for the 'Cassée democracy'? Because I remember you personally in the examination to say to me: 'No, if soundes contribute, it is okay to use them'. You said it, it's in the Minutes. Now, today, sounds don't like you! So, did you see, Mr. Lappa, how did you all stand on SYRIZA? Why were you makers, capable of being not, thank God, for democracy! So, then, the tapes were legitimized by Papagelopoulos as Minister of SYRIZA, the tapes you used as a party in the House against me in the health examination, health examination was a hole in the water, and that is why you never brought it to plenary. And because you had the nerve, Mr. Lappa, to say about what ELSTAT says, I've submitted the ELSTAT press release since 2015 with health expenditure. You will see that the year 2014 is the year with lower health costs over the past twenty years. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u267	Only the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u268	For the public, of course. On the contrary, I can tell you that private pharmaceutical expenditure on SYRIZA increased, as you know, the 'clowback' from EUR 200 million to EUR 1 billion. This means that SYRIZA increased the private pharmaceutical costs and profits of pharmaceutical companies due to the involvement of patients in medicines. The public did not go up because we had voted on the 'clockback', but the private one - you said so - went up to the previous memorandum. So if the drug remoula was in the pharmaceutical expense, the main season to be searched is 2015-2019, where the drug expenditure was reinstated at the prememorandum levels. I say it because you don't even know that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mrs Gerovasili accused me in her exotic of adopting, says, very precisely the sound that "Kathimerini" presented and that in no case does it mean that because Mr Mathaopoulos says what he says in the well-known sound that this proves her responsibility. And what is the fault of Mrs Gerovalis that a third party - someone, of course, who herself then chose for the Chief of Fire - is a slander and nothing? He obviously has a political responsibility he chose later as Chief of Firefighting. If that is political responsibility, it was a bad Minister and we go further. She says, "You must not adopt it, because it doesn't mean it because he says it, that I did it on his own. Can you not tell me, ladies and gentlemen, when you voted for our referral to the preliminary committee with all the statements of the kind "I heard that..." "It seems to me that...", "I suppose that's where you concluded that this is necessary and it is proven and we have to go to the Special Court or to justice, and now that it is Matthew, the Chief of Firefighting and says so, that's where we have to give Mrs Gerovas the right to doubt? This right of doubt that Mrs Gerovas and myself demanded today, has Mrs Gerovali and all of you ever wondered if you would give it to us? The answer is 'no'. You all went like a sheep and followed Papagelopoulos to the service! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because, ladies and gentlemen, in her exotic she makes criticism for me because I am using very heavy expressions for SYRIZA and the lousy government and gang - as I say it - and she thinks that this is affecting her political path and threatens me and with lawsuits, I have made a glimpse of 'Google search', just so the Greek people can hear it and you will know it now. Amazing Manolis Glezos: “I am ashamed of Tsipras. I apologise to the Greek people because I trusted him." Former President of the Nicos Konstantopoulos Coalition: “Supervisor of the left-wing matches Tsipras. The party's day became a public limited company.' Zoi Konstantopoulou, former President of the Parliament, recommended by SYRIZA: "Even the mafia has rules. SYRIZA no'. Alekos Alavanos, former President of the Coalition: "The moral advantage of the Left rots with SYRIZA" Amazing Pericles Korovesis: "Left of smoked chocolate to smoked salmon and black caviar. The worst memorial government had Tsipras' chief. His clique destroyed SYRIZA. Hunger for power and tactics.’ Panagiotis Lafazanis, your former left-wing partner and your Minister: "The Prime Minister of the most humiliating asshole was Alexis Tsipras. It is tragic, but SYRIZA is now conducting antipopulation even more arrogantly than when he was in the government and I would add a lot more state-of-the-art and systemically" I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] Tell Mrs. Gerovasili that if she's been affected by my expressions and wants to take me to court, she'll sue your ex-complainants who have dragged you out of the car! I have not dared to say even 1/10 of what you are accused of, that is to say, as the worst gang ever passed by the government of the Greek state! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You constantly blame me, unstoppablely, by SYRIZA for saying that my statement to 'AND1', that Mrs Toulupakis should be condemned for the offence of misuse of power, is an interference in justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u269	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, he is affected and you know that he has more time to speak. You agreed this morning. So don't ask about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u270	Don't bother what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the insanity here. Mr. Lappas and Mr. Papagelopoulos and all SYRIZA came along and said: Shame on Georgia! He's interfering with justice! What are these things? Today we have heard from Mr Papaggiopoulou and from many of the speakers of the SYRIZA: the excellent and tied Sofulaki and the useless Zacharis and even from the ideology that Zecharis is sixty pages, while Sofulaki is two hundred ten. Excuse me, when you in this House say that it is useless to find one and the other, do you not intervene in justice? Secondly, take care of it even better: it is illegal to prosecute Mrs Toulopakis, Mr Papagelopoulos told us from this Step. The same thing SYRIZA has said, but not with so much tension. In other words, if Mrs Toulupaki's appeal is being tried - even when she said so, I saw to the ERT, which had been reported, that the prosecutor in the appeal lodged by Mrs Toulupaki made a proposal to reject Mrs Toulousa's appeal as legally unfounded and that it is legal to prosecute her, I say this about the value of the arguments of Papagelopoulos - and from the Step by the former Minister of Corruption and the Officerial Response party say that this is not an interference in justice. What is it? Are you going on a walk for tea? So you're not telling me that it's unacceptable that Georgian should talk about a prosecutor. Here we heard that Mr Athanasios, as Mr Papachristopoulos said, left, said, and went for his personal cause in The Hague and lied to the entire judiciary. Aren't you telling me when Papachristopoulos tells me this about the prosecutor Athanasios is not offensive to a prosecutor? Mr. Papagolopoulos took one of the prosecutors who blamed him and said: one who lied because her child is studying in America, the other who was lying because she wanted to close cases. Isn't that an intervention in justice? Why am I saying all this? To show the Greek people how liars and hypocrites you are. Nor do you mind the intervention in justice - after all, you are the most interveners - nor anything. Do you know what's wrong with you? That the form has now been revealed and the time of punishment is near. And I explain - and I close - where the construction lies and I will say some real things to the Greek people. When the 'NOVARTIS' case was first heard and it began to be leaked by journalists - obviously by the corruption prosecutor, because from elsewhere these news could not be circulated - that the case with politicians is about to come - in the beginning it was seven, in the course of the course ten - on the basis of the deposits of three protected witnesses, I went and found my lawyer. I said to him, "They say that and they get me into trouble, that I have nothing to do with it." He told me: You must, Adonai, go find Papagelopoulos. He controls Toulupakis and he does things in justice and intervenes with the judges and prosecutors. I did call Mr. Papagelopoulos and met him. It's worth my while to pass on to you our dialog. I have seen him, so I have seen him, and I say to him: Mr. Papaggiopoulou, the journalists say some strange things are about to come to the House, which will have complaints against politicians from three protected persons. In fact, I told him in word: If you've found me something, you'll kick me. But please do not start now with protected witnesses doing such things to each other, because in the end democracy will be in the air. Can you imagine tomorrow when we're gonna be in power, put on other protected ones and say that "I went and gave Tsipras a suitcase" what does that have to do with it? I'm honored to tell you his reaction. Papaggelopoulos - Too bad he's not here - to me: What are you talking about, son? Is this ever possible in Greece? That's what I'm gonna stop first. No way. Two weeks later I hear the same man outside the Maximos Mansion, with three protected witnesses saying: It is the biggest scandal of Greek state payments. It was coming to me to break the TV! That's what we're talking about! And he's got his face coming to the House too! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let's go see where the abuse of power is, let's get a little bit of a legal base in here. I am tabling this report to the House - the Minutes you have it anyway, both from the plenary and from the Committee on Revision of the Constitution - a proposal for a Katrugalo and a proposal from the Tsipras in both the previous Parliament and this House. [[At this point, Minister Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] What did you suggest? To vote on the Revision of the Constitution as an interpretative circular for Article 86, which will clarify that the offence of passive bribery does not belong to the so-called'ministerial offences'. And what does it say in the Minutes, which I have put before you and Mr. Catrugalos and Mr. Tsipras? That if this interpretative circular is not passed, as we give it to you, then the offence of passive bribery is in ministerial crimes and so you will help to get away with your people, etc. So Mr Tsipras himself and your rapporteur of the Constitution's Review so far well knew that the crime of passive bribery, as it stands today without the interpretative circular you have proposed, is one of the so-called'ministerial offences'. After all, Marios Ice has said in her apology that, when Mr. Zacharis asks, "Why did you, Madam Prosecutor, send to Parliament at first, the offences and within them you have included passive bribery, but then you have prosecuted Andreas Loverdos for passive bribery?". Listen to what Mrs Toulopakis said so that the Greek people can understand how the construction is proved. Toulupakis: "Because based on the case law of the Ice Arrow, I knew that passive bribery belongs to ministerial so-called offenses. That's why I sent the House the file on passive bribery. But after Parliament gave me permission, then I decided to conduct my investigation and my persecution for passive bribery." Let's take a look at our law. A simple majority of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, can the Constitution be changed? Obviously not. The Constitution only changes through the well-known review process. Is it possible that the Prosecutor of Corruption, Mr. Toulupakis, did not know him? Of course he knew. So Mrs Tulupaki said at the same time in her apology that she knew that the case law of the Ice Bay incorporates this offence into ministerial crimes, but she got permission, that is, an order from the House. Since when did the prosecutors get permission and mandate from the House? Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen, are ordered only from the Arele Ice. That is why we have a distinction of powers. The House is indifferent to them. Only the Marios Ice can change the case law and not, of course, the House. Is it possible that Mrs Tulupaki does not know? He knew. Why did he do it? It was her consideration, Andreas Loverdos, to vote in favour, her consideration to renew her mandate was to prosecute Andreas Loverdos. At the time, however, he was prosecuting Andreas Loverd, supposedly disciplining the parliamentary permission, which was legally indifferent, abused power. When he was trying to look for me and the other nine for that crime, he abused power. In my speech at the NOVARTIS the first day I said: I resign the limitation provided for in Article 86, and if the majority so desires, I challenge them to take me to the Special Court in accordance with Article 86 and to be judged on the substance of the case. Of course you didn't. Why didn't you? Because if you had, my case would have expired in six months. In six months the Greek people would know from the Special Court whether I was innocent or guilty. But you didn't want to find innocent or guilty. You wanted to win the election. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And to win the election, you found an accomplice, Ms. Toulopakis, and the two assistant prosecutors Dzoura and Manolis. I'm making it clear that for me they're also accomplices to the felony. That's what the majority conclusion says, that all three prosecutors together did. Mr. Zecharus had his own opinion. The House as a preliminary committee is a sovereign body in this process, Mr President of the committee. Let me make it clear: Your conclusion is to all three prosecutors. And following the statement made by Mr Salata the other day as a member of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors that the role of Ms. Dimitrios and Ms. Thanos should be checked, I have to tell you that she is personally convinced that without the active involvement of at least Ms. Demetrius it was impossible for Ms. Toulouse to carry out all this work, because when Mrs. Toulopakis was re-elected, Mrs. Demetrius did not hide from the judges that there was an appeal and she concealed it in order to renew her term of office and to prosecute Lover and win the elections. So, Andrea, these lousy guys set us up! Now, then, all this misery is revealed. Mr Tsipras came to the House today and told us: If you want unity in national matters, you need to cover 'NOVARTIS'. Mr. Tsipras, you're deeply mistaken. The design of "NOVARTIS" will be investigated to the end. The guilty will go to prison, not for reasons - take care - of personal vengeance, but because we are obliged by our faith in the Constitution of Greece and in our parliamentary democracy to know every next one who takes the authority that anyone who is intellectually conceived to use fraudulent means to set up a vigilant circuit to close their political opponents in prison will eventually end up in prison. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] This is how democracy is protected and what we are doing today, ladies and gentlemen, is the highest protection of the Hellenic Republic from an organized gang which unfortunately took power in order to alter the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u271	And we thank Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u272	How is it going to be with us, Mr. President? Then how will the process continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u273	Then the parliamentarians will talk. Mr. Loverdo, you're after Mr. Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u274	Then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u275	If you'd like to, Mr. Loverdo, I'd love to. No problem. I see the show here. I just got up to the Chair as you saw. Don't start shooting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u276	Okay, whatever you say. But I had asked for the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u277	You can speak before Mr. Samaras. It's okay. The parliamentary representative whenever he wants to speak, raises his hand. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u278	For 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u279	It doesn't have 30 minutes. Five minutes' time, Mr. Avramakis. I see here how much time there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u280	Give him as much time as he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u281	I will also ask for some tolerance in time, because the previous speaker said a lot, but I cannot resist and not start my speech with "Get up Andreas to see Loverdo and Adones together!" insinuating a little of the previous ones. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Well, listen now. Is it unreasonable that NOVARTIS admits and pays 310 million in America by saying clearly, clearly - and you are also philosophers of some of you, can you not read the decision? - that they used official 1, Fruzi, official 2, someone else to influence Maniadakis, who was a partner of Mr. Georgiadis, to influence the government, the foreign government, to protect "NOVARTIS", to bring illegal benefits against other companies, and Americans, on the basis of this article concerning political persons. And after that, after that decision you still dare - but that's how the guilty do! - to speak of a craftsman! After that decision of American justice! And the Pope told you earlier: 'You will ask 'NOVARTIS'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u282	As much as you asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u283	Why is the story? Why is he paying America money? He pays why he directed, as the videos with the Guardian say, "we have people, inform us and intervene", "we are at the think tank of Samaras business, with Mr. Pole and others." What was the political decision? The invoicing. Well, listen, dudes of the "I'm quitting my immunity" when two elections have been held in 2015, you know that infidelity - which is self-proof, cannot be dismissed by anyone - has been abandoned, sold elsewhere, Mr Georgiadis! Because with the Harvard project you put ten drugs, changing a ministerial decision, which was honoured and compensated here, and you infidelated the public. Lucentis, told you that 500 euros had to be invoiced, made a ministerial decision and said it would go in the other way and invoiced it 850. Thirty-five euros difference one box! A drug that made a turnover of 30 million euros a year, that is, 10 million euros a year, was a waste of Greek public money! That's infidelity. And obviously you didn't do it for your mother's soul or to cover up...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, I would like to speak after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u285	Don't pick up your hand again, you've done this as a congressman. Do you do it as Minister? Hand up, down hand? Wait a minute. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Apparently you didn't do that because you wanted to cover people and patients, because on your days and previous days it was that cancerous chemo therapy was looking for the social and solidarity pharmacies that we and the left people set up to cover when you threw them on the road and covered the uninsured with what we did. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You dare talk? This is where the country went bankrupt. 300 billion. Eighty-five billion, not on my own calculations, with other calculations, was the money we paid for in the health sector over a 20-year period. Of these 32 billion euros was for the medicine alone, the above we paid, which started from ‘97 with the Simitis and reached this thing up to your own days. And you dare say nothing happened! In other words, here the country went bankrupt, the scandal of pharmaceutical expenditure - because that is what we have to say, because there are other companies that have eaten - is global, and you with your ministerial decisions when you cut off the others, protected NoVARTIS. That's what you did. Novartis sold 130 million, collecting 130. The others were selling 70, collecting 10. With the prices of medicinal products in the invoice and Loverdos with Tasigna and a number of other medicines, and Gilenya and everything else, and what you then put, noVARTIS was protected. That's why the Guardian went out to the video and says "the others go to hell, but we go well. We go well because we have relations with the government and we go well." And that's because you're good people! And there is no political responsibility, there is no criminal responsibility for this dispersal, at the time when a society was inhabited by you to protect 'NOVARTIS'! It's your problem. You are now also avengeing your political opponents with an opportunistic majority - because the weather has been shooting and time weeks - and you are also avengeing a piece of the judges who dared to investigate the legitimate owners of the country. Because that's your thing. You never expected the Left to take the government to this country and free justice from looking for those who went bankrupt. The EUR 300 billion debt over a 20-year period how did they get together? Because no one's got them? Because there wasn't any system of interacting? Because this place was all angelic in it? Because public works were given without overpricing? Because the arms markets were done without overpricing and no massages? Because the drug was set up this whole festival with the overpriced materials that ran out of China, 300 euros in the United States and 6,000 euros to pay the IKA here? Is that the way it was, his only one? And did the doctors do it? In other words, it was only the Riku's husband who prescribed 1,7 million euro drugs not only "NOVARTIS" in one year without seeing 95% of patients. The street knows from 1.7 million euros to 30%. Could the man of Riku do this if Mr. Georgiadis, Abrahamopoulos, Loverdos, all those who needed ministers for health, had not made such a committee in the price sheet that would allow companies to have more money to be able to pay doctors? That's how it happened. And that's how the country went bankrupt. You flew into the reversal of your speech, something about the CDC. And here I will go into the matter of justice, because - be careful - today you are moving because this country has been bankrupt because the civilian staff knew that today to steal, justice will end in 20 years, they will be eaten, muted. It's not like in Spain when they found some of Rahoi's people in two and a half years' time, he's perfected and the government fell. This is where SIEMENS started in 1992. In 2006, it was prosecuted. In 2018-2019 the trial took place. It's all kind of old. From the phone centers to the massages. That's what you knew, and that's why he went bankrupt. Is this a lie that the mixed step says now? Paulis doesn't say so. He's been doing this to the Transparency Authority, the new one you made to cover everything up. He finally sent it to justice in November, which is also looking for it. Is it a lie that in CEDEFOP the years 2009-2014 are there 90.156.775 euros that we don't know where they went? We don't know where they went. It's your years. It is a lie, when you were out here swinging the finger - I speak to you, Mr Georgiadis - about these twenty-three hirings of CEDEFOP that were from the sponsorship of 'ESTEE LAUDER'. It wasn't just twenty-three. There were others. Turns out it was a payoff from the National Bank because the exterior got out. Eighteen of the twenty-three of them were more transfused that you took to your office in a certain way. Eighteen of the twenty-three. And there was a prosecution about it. He was prosecuted both to Pouli and Theopharyaktou and Papadimitriou, in all that gang of which a political leader and mentor were you. Isn't that what happened? Haven't you been prosecuted? They still haven't called the Pool. As they haven't called the Guardian they found 40 million feeder bill. They haven't called him. Because if they call him, they'll have to arrest him, and if they arrest him, he'll give you all. That's what's happened. That's the justice that existed. That's the system you pressed on. Listen. In this system you stepped on, and today you're trying like ostrichs to shove your head in the sand. You put on the media that you have controlled - which you have not fed with 20 million - that have so far received 80-90 million euros for the media with the 'text trees', we have no money, but we have 'text trees' - to shout and scream against them. Now, listen to us finish it. We're not the same, and we won't be. Yeah, there are two conflicting worlds. They're two worlds. Because you are the party of the tough post-war state, of the certificates of social rights, of the real Cotsmans who murdered Petroula, who murdered Lambrakis, who murdered Temponer, who has set up all the meditation to control the state. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are the part of democracy, social justice, workers, youth, small and medium-sized farms, scientists who fight with their sweat to climb and not by the hatreds, the closest, the relationship with the churches, the masonas and all that you have. We don't admire Pataco. We admire Velouchiot. Yeah, we're two worlds. And we have a moral advantage, and we're looking at you all in the eyes. And we're telling you, "Find us something." You gave us EUR 300 million and we delivered you EUR 37 billion. Because we didn't steal. You "eat" and the pods and the windows and columns. That's why the country went bankrupt. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the moment, things with the Turks have been jammed. We made a decision last year with Anastasiades to have sanctions, which you did not activate. Erdogan's coming out and showing power. We're not talking. We're not getting up to speed. After Tsipras went out this morning, he had Dimitriadis take calls to make an appointment. Until then he's gone missing. At a concert this afternoon. Why? Is it a lie and you're moving your hand? Isn't that what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u286	That's a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u287	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u288	We are currently at critical moments in our national affairs. He needs a decisive attitude. These investigations must not be carried out. They must be prevented. You have historical responsibility to prevent them. We're not afraid of you. Some of our space were delusional that some institutions could function on their own and wait for things to proceed on their own. In this delay you're stepping on. Yeah, next time, we'll be different. Be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u289	How will you be?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u290	We'll be different. No delusional. More mature.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u291	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u292	Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u293	Don't cause. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u294	More decisive and, above all, more effective. Because this society clearly wants to punish those who went bankrupt. And that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u295	Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u296	Because, as a mandarin says, Mrs. Vulture "as much as it is dark and spooky, the sun will find her passing by." We'll make him show. Be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u297	Mr Georgiadis has the floor, on personal grounds, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u298	Answer one. Mr Paulakis said that I and the others escaped because of the infidelity and limitation of Article 86. I would remind you that unfaithfulness was the first committed by the SYRIZA Government by not issuing a price sheet in 2015. And Mrs Toulupakis, who, in the committee's finding, is referring to the Special Court, was the one who kept the file in its drawer until the deadline for the write-off deadline for the infidelity of the first SYRIZA government has elapsed. But let's go to the second one. I was accused by Mr Paulakis and even by a lousy insinuation. "For his mother's soul he did it in 850 euros Lucentis?" Yes, sir. First of all, Lucentis was invoiced with this new ministerial decision on the next Minister and not on my day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u299	Your days were invoiced EUR 875. You're not lying to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Polakis, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u301	It doesn't count in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u302	He's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u303	People will judge it. You won't yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u304	I have tabled a written question to Mr Polakis, who has never been answered. Because the price of Lucentis for four years SYRIZA has never been reduced and the pricing method has never changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u305	You're a liar again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u306	If, then, ours is unbelievable, you have four years of infidelity. And I didn't give up. And so you, for your mother's soul, left the honor, thief Paulie. So let's go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u307	Please, no such expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u308	With regard to the 90 million ERIC. I used to see Mrs. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou in the Chamber somewhere. It's gone now. Mr. Polakis, I've told you a hundred times. Never did any research show a 90 million-dollar hole in the CDC. Already the Greek justice, which does not go as late as you think, has sentenced you to an action by Stamatis Poulis, for what you say at first, to a fine. I have condemned you at first hand to a fine for what you say about the CEDEFOP. You still say it just to increase your sentence at the court of appeal. You're right. But it was never found in a 90 million-dollar hole survey. But if you have any questions about CEDEFOP, for one year and something in the period you mentioned, the Minister responsible for CEDEFOP is your colleague in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Marilissa Xinoyankopoulou. Close into a room and ask the question "Where did my Marilissa money go to?" Because it is strange, Mr Ragosi, that Georgiadis was responsible for the CCI in 2013-2014, but that Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou was not responsible in 2010-2011, when 90 million have been missing since 2008, v. Polakis. I tell you this so that the Greek people can understand once again how liars and hypocrites you are. You're little people. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u309	No designations, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u310	As far as Mr. Froze is concerned, I don't like being accused of being innocent in the Chamber. Mr. Janakopoulos, you're a lawyer. I'm surprised. Mr. Frozis has so far been found innocent in a Greek court to a first and second degree. The reason he was found innocent is that he wasn't found in his accounts. This is where Mr Paulakis said that he was found 40m euros. Please bring us the $40 million paper so I can go first and blame the Fruzzi. If, however, a former Minister in Parliament tells such a gross lie about any citizen in this country who, a court of first instance and a court of appeal, has found that it is not the case, I beg your pardon, Mr Polakis - and I am closing down with that - but that is our big difference. We do not, of course, admire Pattacos, nor Velouchiot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u311	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u312	We admire the Parliamentary Republic! We're not with the socks, Mr. Polakis! Understood, finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u314	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, we put things in place. Today we have the great opportunity - I take it out of my mind in the mornings, which have saddened me - in this Chamber to teach style, morality and unity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u315	All right, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u316	Please, Mr. Janakopoulos! Please, Mr. Pappa, without laughing! And that way. I won't take a café. Please, too! People are watching us. Let us set an example. This is where people are waiting. He's here waiting for an example, and we're doing a panel here? If that's possible! I respect you and I love you all, you know that. I know all of you, and I wonder what happens in here, when you enter this Chamber, when you are gentlemen outside. I'm the Vice President. Respect the President. I'm the one instead of the president. I respect you and I love you all. I'm really talking to you through my heart. Where there is love and respect there are ways. Where there's indifference, I don't want to say what's there. Justifications, the least I can say. Please, he will say what everyone wants and what the world will judge. I get up and yell, cafeteria, panels, and that's not. Mr. Polakis, you have two minutes at your disposal without qualification. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u317	Here the other, the descendants of the german gossip, told us 'bugs' and let go of it. Listen to me. First of all, Mr President, I would like to take a little notice of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u319	There is nothing: Hellenic Republic, National Transparency Authority, date 28-11-2019, 3th Semester Examination Report of Mixed Scale Control. He's been to the D.A.'s office for the interrogation and they've left seventy two ties and some who are your partners, you've assigned them to the Ministry of Development - Theophilatos - as indictees. It says here, where you've got the nerve, and you're saying there's nothing proven and screaming and screaming. Here: Acknowledgement 90.156.775,25 difference between calculated and actual cash. Who's the liar? Who's the liar, you're not ashamed of?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u320	And the plural in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u321	Who's the liar you're not ashamed of? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go to the other one. The Pool has convicted me? What has the Pole convicted?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u322	You!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u323	That the descriptions I told the dog are inconsistent with the public word of a politician. Here the same step as all that I have been yelling at in the committee of Parliament, and so on. proves it one by one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll only tell you. In his Batjanakis, Mr. Drossis, whom he commissioned to your Minister the maintenance of CEDEFOP hostels in 2013 with 134,000 euros, in 2014 with 156,000 euros - maintenance of a building with 134,000 euros and 156,000 euros a year in his Batjanakis, the husband of the sister, the one you have in your office, Theophilatos, which is why I am talking about a gang - proves here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u324	Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no. They want an answer. They show that before entrusting them to his Bajanakis with EUR 136,000 and EUR 153,000 a year, the CCP gave EUR 2,500 a year. He says in here - not Paulakis, they say it here - that they found him 250 grand transfer from CEDEFOP's accounts to his bank account, which he can't justify, which is why he's been to the place where you've been and they're looking for it. We're stalling there, too. You've put all the mechanism of the parastate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u326	Finish it, Mr. Polakis! You've done it from up here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u327	So move, because you're checking a piece of justice to just delay. Wait. He said another one about Marilissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u328	And that's what you're closing down with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u329	I'll say two things. Listen. On your days - sorry, on your own days - they were signed by the gang of CEDEFOP, whose political mentor and organiser you were you, Papadimitriou, Lyris, Theophilatos, Economou, Pouli etc. etc. - that everything I said about Poulis here proves, up to the last and last I had not found - eight hundred ninety-seven contracts with the media, Velona and Klosti, which ultimately belongs to the "PARAPOLITICA" of Kurtakis, right? The Pecha list is a copy of that list you had built then to melanrate you when you were kicking two and a half thousand people out of high school, and when you toweled the universe and closed hospitals. You've had the "know" ever since! That's what you did then, eight hundred ninety-seven contracts. Marilissa did what she did was cancel eight million vaccines that Abrahamopoulos ordered, whose account the Angel didn't get in Switzerland from the FBI. He didn't get that account...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Polakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u331	...by "NOVARTIS" and swinging our fingers. There's more, but I'm stopping. If you keep going... Oh, wait a minute. As far as Lucentis is concerned, you made a ministerial decision saying that eye preparations can be invoiced not only with the percentage rule of mg. If it's 10 mg and it comes to 5 mg, it'll go halfway. He didn't go halfway, he went a little bit further. If the 10 mg made a 1,000 euros, 5 mg would not do 500 euros, but would do, say, 600 euros, because it is the packaging. You on purpose, in agreement with the Guardian and NOVARTIS, made a provision that said they could go either with this rule or with the rule of the three countries. Yeah, didn't you fix it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u333	Bravo! So, take it! So what? The EOF sent you - and it wasn't us in the EOF at the time - which told you "price in 509 euros", based on the percentage rule, mg. You say 'no, it goes with the rule of three countries' and went to 875 euros. For your mother's soul, did you do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u334	Thank you very much, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u335	Of course, we, when a way of invoicing starts, continue with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u336	You've changed it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u337	You've changed it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u338	The rest of Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u339	It's all the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Georgiades, I want you to respect Mr. Samaras, who is waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u342	First of all, to defend the truth...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u343	I'm sure Mr. Paulakis will raise his hand, Mr. Georgiadis. Why don't you do this to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u344	In defence of the truth, first of all, we have just heard that Lucentis' pricing method remained the same in SYRIZA. Of course, a ministerial decision by a minister can be changed by a new ministerial decision of the next Minister. So, we just heard that all that he's been saying here for so many years, Mr. Paulakis has not changed, because my ministerial decision has been respected. Secondly, for our debate, Mr President - and I am closing - what Mr Polakis said about the CCTBT finding reinforces today's debate and the referral by Mr Papaggiopoulou and the prosecutors against corruption to the Special Court. What for? The conclusion read by Mr. Paulakis comes from the workshop that checked by the General Secretariat of Public Administration Inspectorate on SYRIZA, Ms. Papaspyrou. She has Mrs. Dinaki's signature. Mrs Dinaki has appointed her to do this by written order of Mrs Toulupakis. Why did Mrs Tulupaki ask for this particular Mrs Dinaki? Because that was the whole thing that we are talking about. Everything you've read is a gang product, if you don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. Georgiadis. The former Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, has the floor. Mr. Samaras, I apologise on behalf of the gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, when this disgrace began to unfold in February 2018, I said that I understood that my presence bothers them and now they will understand that I will take them to the end. It was what I insisted on. And it's what we're here for today. First - first - the “end-end” was the reaction of a former Prime Minister when he opened a case-file and saw that he was accused of two unlikely hooded witnesses that, supposedly, one noon at Maximos' parking - even though Maximos has no parking - arrived with his comfort by a CEO of a big pharmaceutical company and, carrying a running suitcase full of notes, climbed the stairs, opened the doors of Maximos, slackened by the police, opened and the door of the former Prime Minister and bribed him. And when the former Prime Minister searched for what questions the prosecutors then asked to this witness, he was amazed to find that he was not asked anything, but nothing, nor the simplest question: "You, Mr. Witness, how do you know that? Were you there?" The "until the end" was the indignation of a Prime Minister when he saw that he was also accused of being accused, because he said, he had studied in Harvard, an entire bribe program from the same company, with the final recipient of the former Prime Minister, with the sum of EUR 1 million. In this case, however, unlike beforehand, the prosecutors asked the witness a few questions, but it was really a shocking question. Listen to it: "Don't you think it could be the 2 million, not the 1 million, reality?" And the martyr broke and smacked: "He could." [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] In other words, the prosecutors were learning from the witnesses even more prejudicial complaints than already outrageous ones they had submitted. Should Samaras take a half million euros or two millions, since that's how he was attracting the prosecutors? Ladies and gentlemen, why? Did it because as Prime Minister he made decisions hard, but necessary to curb the waste of drugs? So, to give me the pleasure of cutting off their money? That is why, from the first second of my message, I called them a gang, from the then Prime Minister, to all the prosecutors of corruption, to all the false witnesses. A gang. I did not have the right to give a single tramp value to their slander. I had to react. And of course forty-three years in this House I knew where they were going and where they were going. They wanted to take the country to elections with the top officials of the New Democracy, KINAL and the economy under the most dishonest charge that, supposedly, we were all paid by "NOVARTIS" and that, supposedly, we all captured the Greek people. Imagine SYRIZA having elections with two, three of us confiscated and just think about what would have happened in this place. I repeat, me and my government have cut expenditure on the medicine over half. And then all the pharmaceutical companies, and NoVARTIS, were protesting. While SYRIZA then defended the companies, supported their positions and fought us for cutting the waste. Such a nerve! The "end-end" was still the promise of a man to restore his honor and reputation. It was a promise to seek the truth, to reveal this dark structure and to render justice to the guilty. Should a Prime Minister go to jail if he's guilty? I say yes, go. Nobody's above the law. But he should go to the kiosks "closed in the handkerchiefs" as a misador, because that's how his political opponents want to kill him, not ever. To be quoted, based on the doctrine of Rasputin, "send him, and then let the courts find them"? No, gentlemen, that's not justice. It's the law of the jungle. Let's put in two or three to win the election! That's not a democracy. This puts totalitarianism through the back door. And you saw that "until the end" finally became a citizen's reaction to injustice, it became a slogan, viral that the young people say, it became a social current. He went into political terminology. It was adopted by various people of SYRIZA, as I read in some of their communications. So if you say so, gentlemen of SYRIZA - which I personally do not believe - do the thing today. Vote the referral of Papaggiopoulou to investigate any responsibilities of justice. But look out! Real responsibilities, in real courts, with real witnesses, not stirred preparations with hooded pseudo witnesses. If he's innocent, you have no reason to worry. But if Mr Papagelopoulos is guilty - like myself and the majority of the committee of inquiry - what exactly is Mr Tsipras defending? Political misery? The "magas" with the "magasers", to say it in the poppa language? Because what you and Papagelopoulos have been doing so far is unbelievable, constantly raise objections to the procedure, and prevent the investigation of the construction. In other words, when he was your Minister, Mr. Papaggiopoulou said that he would propose an interrogation and he would be the first to want to go to court, there were tears, mutters, panic. Look, "until the end" is not a memorial to smash Mr. Tsipras with a law and an article. It's not a referendum to turn it into another asshole. The "end" is a lifestyle. It requires a code of values that, unfortunately, you do not. But "until the end" is something other than faces, it is the power of truth, of conscience, of justice, of democracy. And it is the voice of society and politics, the decision to end all over the place. It is never again. And never again, through today's vote, will serve the political life of the country. It's not a vote of vengeance, don't make a mistake. It's a vote of conscience. It's a deterrent vote. It's a vote of liberation from the marilla and the decline. Ladies and gentlemen, on May 18, 2018, this Step I said on this occasion that I have full confidence in Greek justice. But you must be careful why you have become hostages of Papagelopoulos. You have become hostages of Papaggiopoulou and will be burned by Papaggiopoulou. And I added that the Greek people are now aware of what is happening and that is why I am optimistic. But optimistic for another Greece. You look at your mirror, I told you, and you wondered whether you should be ashamed or worried or maybe both. Be ashamed, then, I don't see it. Whatever you're worried about, though, I can see it. And you're right, you're worried. Because there are already eight charges at the expense of Mr Papaggiopoulou, including for a gang and for a malicious moral automobile in a misuse of power. It remains to be investigated by the regular interrogation at the next stage who were also his natural perpetrators in the abuse of power, namely who acted under Papagelopoulos. Apparently the three prosecutors of corruption, even known as his disciples. The responsibilities of Toulopakis, Dzoras, Manolis are specific and are listed in the conclusion. But I see that you are also concerned about the fact that it will sometime be investigated and who others participated in the criminal organization and above Papagelopoulos. That is, if Mr. Tsipras except for the hostage of Papagelopoulos is also the head of the construction. I will invoke Mr. Papagelopoulos himself. He said a month ago just: "I was referring directly to Tsipras who trusted me." I imagine, of course, that he will not change his handling any moment ago that he will insist on the interrogators that he was referring to Tsipras. And he'll tell us what orders he was taking from Tsipras. I told you: "You will be burned by Papagelopoulos." You didn't hear me. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] But not to be unfair, and Mr. Tsipras himself was unreserved in this Chamber. And he said it very clearly. Listen to what he said: "Come on, then - did Mr. Tsipras say - and Papagelopoulos set it up, tell me how he set up this construction? Alone?’ But who's the Chief of SYRIZA? And who was the Prime Minister then? I fully agree with Mr Tsipras. That's what he says. Except they called this Tsipras and Papaggiopoulou because they believed that this case would not go any further. But he moved on. So since you're on your own, do you confess what happened to my lawsuit? I hope Mr. Tsipras understands that he is not really being chased by Samaras, as he is flattered to say or imagined, your people are chasing you, your trespasses, Nikos Papas, Manolo Petsitis, Kalogris, Attica Bank, the pastures, Rena Douru, Olga Gerovasili, Papagelopoulos, Toulopaki, supposedly indestructible now for corruption. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And God knows what else you've done and who others will be revealed. Your children, however, children of SYRIZA - ANEL government, for the first time left. You've been hurt by my lawsuit. Have you heard what the former leader of your party, Mr. Tsipras, Nikos Konstantopoulos? He asked for your personal responsibilities to be investigated for criminal organization. And did my lawsuit hurt you? Have you heard what the former President of Parliament is charging you and then close to you, Zoe Konstantopoulou? Have you heard what your mentor and predecessor say about you, Alekos Alavanos, that you are a symbol of the moral deception of the Left. And did my lawsuit hurt you? He did not call him "fascist", "left fascist" Samaras called him Mr. Tsipras, Mikis Theodorakis said so. Not to remember what Manolis Glezos said about you. That's why I'm telling you, Samaras isn't after you, your men are after you, and your lovers. And you know what? As it turns out a few I've written my lawsuit. How was I supposed to know the gang had expanded its action abroad? That he had a central store, I was paralyzing, outshore, and who knows what else? I knew about the excellent relationships between Papagelopoulos and Toulopakis, but where to imagine the comfort of Mr Papa who called it to third parties when 'typissa' and when'my girlfriend'. You should be ashamed and not embarrassed. But, I repeat correctly now, you are concerned. And it looks like we're only in the beginning. And since you don't make your self-criticism, I'll help you. Then you thought that you would paralyse the Greek justice through the nets of the offense set by Papagelopoulos, who made money, a lot of money, as Nikos Papapas himself confesss to Mionis. But now it has been shown that justice is stronger than wrongdoing. Then you thought that with the parastate that was organized within Maximus, the shop would have paralyzed its reflections. But the Hellenic Republic is not what you can control with the joints of power. And it turns out that he's now stronger than your para-state and miserable conspiracy. Then you thought you'd end your opponents, break New Democracy and KINAL, break up the political system, feeding us all on guilty fleeing. But your construction made us even stronger, lured us, united us. And that was your plan that finally failed. Ladies and gentlemen, the manufacturers made the classic mistake that they never make politicians with elementary democratic education, made the classic mistake by the spoiled children of the party tube who thought that politics was being practiced like intrigues between the left gooses and the suggestions that they are always rewarded by the most envy and the mechanic. But their very arrogance and prejudgment did so as to overestimate themselves and underestimate all their opponents. And anyway, to talk about myself, I'm sure they underestimated me. They hadn't read me well. They thought I'd be quiet. They waited for me to bathe and that I'd be scared. Well, I upset them in legality. They have not imagined from the first minute that I will resort to justice against all of them. In fact, Mr Papagelopoulos now says here and there that Samaras is constantly suing. So, what was I supposed to do? What does a citizen do when his honor and reputation are affected? He resorts to justice. So where should I go? Look, a former Justice Minister accuses a former Prime Minister of resorting to justice to find his point. Science here raises its hands high. You know what? I'm not here to talk to you about my personal vindication to this construction. This has been recorded since the first time. Nobody believed these sprayed charges. Besides, on SYRIZA all my charges against me have been suppressed and archived. The makers, of course, what did they think? That urban behavior means retreat and hesitation. That democracy means that everyone does what they smoke and that the most ruthless will get at the end and the merchandise. And that is now becoming a valuable lesson. Urban behaviour is very tolerant of dissent, but at the same time it is disgusting toward the construction, because it is a civilization of principles and an honest politician always responds hard when he is wronged. I will not, therefore, get into the realities of the construction, I have described them, it is truly shocking and detailed in the New Democracy conclusion, but also in the KINAL conclusion. However, I will only focus on certain elements in contradictions with the members of the gang who show their purpose and role. What does Papagelopoulos claim to date? That he knew nothing about the NOVARTIS case. Until February 5, 2018, when he made that famous statement that this is the biggest scandal of the Greek state. The same thing he told us in the pre-inquiry, so did the House, in his interviews. Is that true? But I heard this morning from him that he's never lied to his life. Is that true? No, ladies and gentlemen, he's lying. Mr. Papagelopoulos knew everything before that happened. So let's go a year before the case is made public. Let's go to January 2017, not 2018, then there was no American document. The Americans haven't even answered Ryku's request for court assistance yet. Then there was nothing about political faces, there is no hooded witness. The witness’s own statements begin, notice, ten months later. That's not what I'm saying, Papagelopoulos himself says in the House and in his interviews. So, then, I repeat January 2017, there is absolutely nothing from anywhere. And yet, January 8, 2017, this post appears in “DOCUMENTO”. Former Prime Minister of NOVARTIS GATE and three former Ministers. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the former Prime Minister and Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Antonis Samaras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Question: Who built this information and gave it to the newspaper ten months ago, on 11 January 2017 again? Three days later the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" reveals an extraordinary meeting that took place one day before Maximou, be careful, by Tsipras, Kononis, Papagelopoulos, Blonde, Polakis, Kalogerou and Christou. On what subject, you think? With NoVARTIS? What 'NOVARTIS'? Nothing's come from America yet. He hadn't testified in Greece yet. Since they didn't know anything, what were they talking about? Were they talking about information they didn't have? Or did they build information that wasn't there? I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point the former Prime Minister and Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Antonis Samaras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we're going to the most revealing thing. One day after the meeting in Maximos, that is on January 12, 2017, Mr. Papagelopoulos makes an exclusive statement - where else? - in the newspaper 'DIMMOCRATIA'. He says: "My experience and my instincts as prosecutors give me the feeling, if not the certainty, that the case of "NOVARTIS" is much more serious than the 'SIEMENS' case. I'm putting this front page down, too. [[At this point the former Prime Minister and Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Antonis Samaras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How did Mr Papagelopoulos know about it in January 2017 and even did evaluation crises, when he has constantly told us that he was just informed in February 2018? A year more than a year later. He had taken it out before there was any deposit or information. It's shocking if someone realizes that. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, these 'innocent pigeons' held meetings in Maximos, channelled information to their own media, made statements on a matter that was not even in existence at that time. I don't know if people know that. They've been magnifying it, cooking it, building it for a year. So it explains why Mr. Tsipras also in his speech to the House in 2017, on February 10 - notice - speaks of a case that stinks "and the change" in all parties. It also refers to the 'NOVARTIS' nine months later. Thus, all of them, whether they had the gift of the prophet, or built a step - by step. I am also making the relevant publication of Mr Tsipras' statements. [[At this point the former Prime Minister and Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Antonis Samaras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go now to November 2017. Report of the newspaper “DIMMOCRATIA” reports that Papagelopoulos and Janakopoulos ate together. And after lunch, Mr. Papagelopoulos said: “The interest in our dinner is not my companion, but the menu.” And Mr. Janakopoulos completed his laconics: 'You will soon understand'. And we understood, because two days later, the false witness Kelesis appears in Ms. Toulopakis and the bone of the levitation begins in practice. I am tabling the relevant report on the Minutes. [[At this point the former Prime Minister and Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Antonis Samaras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There were other statements by Papaggioulou in 2017, November, October, in December that he announced these amazing developments accurately. The one who - I repeat - did not know anything and learned all about it, is supposed, on February 5, 2018, when he had told us about the greatest scandal of the Greek state's recommendation. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal in detail with what has been revealed about the role of Toulouse. Others have said it. But take note of the whole process for political persons, Mr. Frouze had as a central point of reference. According to the hooded pseudo witnesses, Mr. Guardis had done everything. It was the brain. But, if possible, where do you say it and believe you worldwide? - the so-called brain Mrs. Tulupaki had never invited him to testify. For the first time, the Guardian testified to you, ladies and gentlemen, in the pre-inquiry, when he corrupted the charges. In fact, Frozis, Maniadakis, Manias, Vulkidis talked about pressures received by Mrs Toulupakis to give political persons. Is this case investigated or does it look more like setting up this disgusting structure that they had managed to put forward? But that's not all. Mrs. Toulupakis has concealed critical FBI documents. He kept them systematically, even in violation of the orders of its superiors. Eventually, the Prosecutor himself made them public, and it turned out to be unconscious. Why did he say to us: "I can't give them. They are classified." And as you all know now, these documents say nothing about research and evidence against political people in Greece. This has also been demonstrated by the compromise text of the US authorities with Novartis, where Mrs Toulupakis has tried to mislead the Greek authorities and the public. However, the official translation of the compromise with the Americans to reveal that there was really absolutely nothing for political persons in Greece and to disprove Mrs Toulupaki again. I submit the relevant document. [[At this point the former Prime Minister and Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Antonis Samaras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And so today, when we have arrived, the prosecution of corruption itself is accused of justice! As for her assistant, Mr. Toulouse, Mr. Dzoura - now be careful - he says in his explanations at the Areo Ice that he allegedly called for the false witness Kelesis on January 28, 2018 to ask him if in her statement on the running suitcase in Maximou, which had given two months earlier, it was the same one and was supposed to be in the same order as not to blame me. He's lying! He did not call it in 2018, but on March 15, 2019, as Mr Dzouras himself says in the conclusion of my archiving, that is, 15 months after Kelessis' initial statement. I mean, for a year I was crucified because they hadn't searched the most important charge against me. But what do I say they were looking for? I guess they weren't looking, they were setting up. I also submit the relevant document. [[At this point the former Prime Minister and Deputy of the New Republic, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, in March 2019, Kelesis replied: "No, I was not present in the incidents - which she had denounced - and soon afterward archived me". In other words, to public opinion, to you, to my family, I was devastated throughout 2018 because they forgot to ask the alleged witness if she was present in the case with the running suitcase. While Mr Dziuras spent a year and a half to ask the most basic witness about the most essential detail, he did - listen - just a few minutes to break my wife, Georgia and my brother Alexander's bank lockers. Georgia was called and asked to appear immediately to open its box while it was with me in Brussels in the European People's Party, where I belong in an organisation, Think Tank. We had just come down from an airplane and replied: "If you want, wait. I'm on the first plane to Athens." But, Mr. Juras couldn't wait. He broke the locker, and he didn't find anything at all. And listen, after he broke the box, then he only remembered to ask the bank manager what was the last time the window had been used to get the answer: "Suffering years before Samaras became Prime Minister." [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] At the same time my brother Alexander was hospitalized for a health problem from which, thank God, fully recovered. He was asked for the same for his deposit box, while he was in a rehab centre, at the "Piloter". Not even in his case could Mr. Juras wait. Here's a lightning, Juras. And here he broke the safe, and he certainly didn't find anything. Ladies and gentlemen, the manufacturers did not respect me, neither my fellow Members nor our families. They destroyed every concept of law and trampled what lawyers say 'the presumption of innocence', not only when we were thrown away the mud, but now that we are rightful. Unrepentant even now they are trying to create impressions and doubts for us and, indeed, the unrepentant ones are telling us and threatening us next time. So, what's it gonna be like? Will you arrest us all in a precaution and invite us to prove our innocence? [[Applause and laughers from the New Democracy ward]] Unrepentants also speak of judges who were prevented - he says - to investigate scandals. Who was prevented? Let Mr. Tsipras tell us who he was prevented from. You had authority. You carried out the investigation for three years. Who forgot to investigate the four thousand doctors? You. Who turned the investigation into the existing corruption issues to political persons? You. Who set up in here the ten ballots and for who? Do you remember them? You. Who, after you've scattered everything and found absolutely nothing, did you put the cases in the file with a heavy heart? You. And you arrived in misery just two weeks ago to accuse me and who else, Papastavros, that I took $2.6 million to finance the New Democracy election campaign in 2015 in Genaris. And it turns out that this is a transfer from a Minoan company to a Minoan company when? In 2006, ten years ago. And when this - watch this - it had already been investigated and already been filed by your own prosecutors - to tell your language - by your store. So ridiculous was this story that even your friendly press had to admit it. And I give your friendly press to see that he admitted it again in the Minutes. [[At this point the former Prime Minister and Deputy of the New Republic, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you, nothing. You threw the mud, and wherever it works. I'm sorry, we're not asking anyone. To tell you even more clearly. Okay, I got you to pass me through the next day of our great rally for Macedonia: Athens, Sunday, February 4, 2018. I was there. These are my political views over time. I didn't hide them. I was in the way of Mr Tsipras' plans for the shameful Ambassadors' agreement. I know. I'm inconvenience. I know. You are disturbed by my positions on illegal immigrants. I know. I annoy you on the national issues, the Cyprus issue, the EEZ, the Greek-Turkish. I know. Am I disturbing you on other issues? I don't know that. But these are political differences. They're not solved with fixed categories for running bags in Maximus. And you found me doing this? My eye was lost and I ignored the doctor and I got on the plane. My wife asked her not to work as an engineer while I was a Prime Minister, so as not to give any excuse to any malicious ones to say anything at all. You want more? My fatherhood at Pylos, my family had already sold it a generation before for politics. My home in Kifisia, Penelope Delta's house, I inherited it from my mother. This is my family, if you want the Benaki family, which after all just gave the world, never got anything from the Greek people. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] These are my roots. They marked me. They inspire me. That's what I'm serving. But, anyway, I'm not lifting my sword. Did you find me? Aren't you ashamed? I'm fine too. Now tell me: How could you try to shut up a ordinary citizen's life just because he had the misfortune to be my partner? I'm talking about Stavros Papastaurou. How could the justice of Mrs Touloupaki and Mr Papagelopoulos hide the court aid for Papastavros from Cyprus, put it in the drawer, hide it that it is not supposed to exist and then prosecute him? I mean, you had proof with a bogeyman that Papastavrou was innocent and then you exercised the prosecution on him. How could an innocent man pass him through to the hellin' house? How could you do it? Don't have a short memory. This side here remembers everything and remembers that in the elections you made him a SYRIZA's television election spot, you committed his money, his family money, his over-age bills for four years. And how could you ask him to testify falsely against Marvas Mitsotakis to gain his freedom, but losing his conscience? How could you treat a completely innocent man like that? How? No one feels ashamed in it? The slightest shame? But what am I saying? Here Toulupakis was performing the central doctrine of the gang: "Desert or we'll tear you apart. Bury Papastaurus or we'll tear you apart." After all, this was the rehearsal gnerale, the doctrine of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, the doctrine of shame, the doctrine of the great shrew: "Save it or we will smash you." And it has been applied everywhere, always for everyone. But, you, like, fearless men, have come to apply it to Matty. Don't you feel sorry for being burned alive a hundred and two of our fellow men and all you cared about was that you didn't know anything about someone giving you responsibilities and threatening the police officer who was investigating and you have the courage and inhumanity to talk from above today about Eye? Doesn't it haunt you anything? Did you sell everything for your chair? Have you become what your Menella Ludemiis once told you "host-skinned"? Isn't it blood flowing in your veins? That's not politics, gentlemen. This is unrelenting cynicism, it's an epitome of immorality. It's a shame. Yeah, it's a pity, and the pity on your neck. That's why I told you and I told you again: never again. Ladies and gentlemen, the institutions are a prerequisite for democracy, for urban democracy. If they do not work, then the citizen loses his respect in the state and the state ceases to represent the unity of nation and people. This pestilence of populism, the question, the undermining of institutions lead to a barbaric society and an undignified state. On the contrary, defending the institutions is a duty not only of the citizens, not only of those who serve them, but also of the public interest, that is, of policies. And be sure that if the law of the gang were to prevail, the rule of law would have been destroyed. To say this more simply, ladies and gentlemen, there are things in policy that are not a matter of choosing to do or not to do them, avoiding them or postponing them. You've got to do it, and you've got to do it. That is what we call debt - debt! - That's how I found out. Debt will say beyond the current policy, debt is the compass of politics, when politics loses its way. When you discover an offense circuit, you can't sit and look at it. You have a duty to rip it out in the best possible way to rip it out. Otherwise, the wrongdoer will drown justice. It's not a question of choice, it's a matter of debt. When you discover a para-state circuit, you can't overlook it. You have a duty to rip that out, too. Otherwise you'll soon be wondering who's running this place, because if the parastate that remains intact strangles democracy, then it'll be too late. So there is no question of choice. It's a debt issue. And above all, we have to say this these hours, it's a supreme debt when they violate your national sovereignty, defend it, you cannot tolerate it, and let the "experts" hear it well, which I say to them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are Greeks and our country knows how to defend it. Let it be heard everywhere, let everyone understand it, we are Greek and we know our debt. At the critical national moments we are a fist, ready to answer any questioning of our sovereign rights and we will do so to the end. In such cases, then, we do not wonder what we should do. We're making our debts and doing it in full to the end, for justice to the end. I've never been around again! For democracy to the end! Never again. For the country to the end, unnegotiable! Ladies and gentlemen, the abscess is broken, the clearance is in your hands until the end! Never again! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u351	Wait a minute! Wait a minute, Mr. Pappa! I heard he said your name. And you, Mr. Janakopoulos. You'll talk, so you'll talk later. Why would you say it now? There's no need. Mr Voutsi has asked for the floor. Mr. Voutsi will also speak. There's no need. To give the floor first to the President of Parliament, Mr. Tasoula. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u352	I won't bother you for a long time, and I won't bother you about shocking issues. However, I must do so because for the third time there has been something which affects all of us and all of us. It raises the House. For a so-called concert that took place yesterday at the time of the tenacity of relations with Turkey at the time of the tenacity of Turkey. The House did not make a "American memorial" last night any concerts anywhere! In Horopopos, the parliament laid under its auspices the concession of the ownership of Oropo's old prisons to the Municipality of Horopo, which was performed by the Ministry of Justice to fulfil a request for decades of the relevant municipality. This event took place yesterday at Horotos in view of the forty-sixth anniversary of the Republic. The prisoners in Oropopos - Mickeys Theodorakis, Glezos, Halvatzis, Nefeludis, Mina Yannos, Lentakis, Florakis - from us all, on behalf of you, by the Prime Minister. It wasn't a party event. We also saw a two-minute film with the history of the building, but to God! - someone should not think that yesterday the House went to the movies, while Turkey was threatening the country. It was an event ahead of the escalation of celebrations to restore democracy. And to God, if the American-American Parliament did a concert yesterday, SYRIZA wouldn't be represented there with Mr. Flamouraris in a concert, he would abstain!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u353	After all, Mr President, it was a decision of the Conference of Presidents and it did not raise a single objection, it was unanimous. We'll take them in a row. Mr. Loverdos has the floor, but as a parliamentary representative, Mr. Janakopoulos first has the floor from SYRIZA, if he wants to speak, because he lifted his hand. Are you gonna talk now, or are you gonna talk about it later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u354	Now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Voutsi, lead everyone, want now or after Mr. Janakopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, I want to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u357	Wait a minute, Mr. Pappa. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u358	Mr. Voutsi will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u359	Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, that is why I have protested now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u361	But he's former President of Parliament, what can I do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u362	You're pulling out the show and changing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u363	I do not change it under the Rules of Procedure, Mr Loverdos. Mr. Loverdo, you're not right. Please, Mr Voutsis has the floor under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u364	Mr President, let Mr Loverdos take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u365	No, I don't want any favors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u366	Oh, now you're patronizing, you told me, and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u367	It's not a favor! Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u368	You've done it since the afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u369	No, I haven't done anything, Mr. Loverdo! Mr Voutsis has the floor under the Rules of Procedure. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, I would like for a minute the floor on staff. Staff first!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u371	On staff, Mr. Samaras has said eight names. All eight? What can we do? Wait! To Mr. Janakopoulos and Mr. Voutsi... Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u372	Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u373	Wait a minute! I have your word!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u374	First of all, Mr Samaras made it clear that he is happy that in 2015 the political change was made, because it is himself the personalization of political cowardice and should be in the Chamber, he should be in here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u375	What are you talking about? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u376	Wait a minute, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u377	He should be in here, like he should have had the guts to show up. Don't insurrect!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u378	Please, I heard Mr. Samaras and no one interrupted him. Quiet, just like Mr. Samaras!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u379	As he should have had the guts coming up in the pre-inquiry, testifying like I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u380	But that, Mr Pappa, is not on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u381	They're on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u382	It's not!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u383	I was attacked, and I say, on personal grounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u384	Is that personal, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u385	Please don't fool me every time, because you find me friendly!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u386	Apologise to tell Mr. Samara!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Levane, I'm here, please, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u388	It'll all be heard!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Pappa, it's not personal, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u390	On staff, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u391	What's he doing? The staff to say, Mr. Pappa! The staff will be heard!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, what's the staff? Why do you let him continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u393	Because he mentioned the meetings... You're not honored by what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u394	Wait a minute, Mr. Levane, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u395	You're not gonna tell me 'Hit down!'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u396	Afraid of something, something will be heard, and you're afraid of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Pappa, excuse me, but it's not personal, please. I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u398	All right, well, allow me the minute you promised me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u399	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u400	So, Mr. Samaras has launched charges against me, and he has sucked down a lot of lies...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, what's the staff? Don't break the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u402	...and he didn't have the political courage to explain what he did at meetings with Mionis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u403	Mr. Pappas has taken the floor to exalt Mr. Samaras. He's in charge of submarines!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u404	No, you're gonna let me finish! He didn't have the courage to answer what he's submitted to him for the protection...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u406	I'll finish. And finally, wait a minute, that's not how it works, I'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u407	What's the staff? That's enough! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Levant, please! No, if you're going to continue like this, Mr. Pappa, I'm sorry, please. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u409	On staff, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u410	Mr. Pappa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u411	I shall conclude, Mr President. I just wanted to say: I didn't expect two things. I did not expect, firstly, to invoke the Macedonian, because he is also the guarantor of the Prespecies Agreement and, secondly, I want to remind him... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...that for the purpose of disseminating public money, the first to substantiate him was Constantine Mitsotakis and the half who applauded him here a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u412	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement now has the floor, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the completion of the work of the Special Parliamentary Committee, we are here on the basis of Article 86(3) of the Constitution, because the proposal to prosecute former Minister Dimitris Papagelopoulos, the Minister of Government of SYRIZA and not just SYRIZA - ANEL is being formulated in the National Representation. The ANELs left the government, he stayed. In this case and in terms of its political background, its pragmatic background, its legal background, I have been placed at the National Representation several times. I have set out my views. I will not repeat what I have said and refer to all of this. But here, we have an investigation, we have a conclusion made by the committee and it is in plenary - the committee was working on behalf of the House - where there is a misconduct that has arisen in our country and which we need to see whether it has a precedent. I am not speaking inconsistently, especially on institutional matters. Despite the fact that I have written about the law on the liability of Ministers in unscrupulous times, I accept the investigation of the judge, retired today, Nikos Soiledakis, on the issues of the criminal responsibility of the ministers, whose examples abound in Greece. Indeed, anyone who reads this work will find that a similar outrageous circuit will not find itself in the two hundred years of our history. The conclusion is scientific and institutional. It's not political, it's not hasty. Today, however, I will not again place myself on them, but I will talk about the legalities, namely the constitutional and penal dimensions of the case, with the elements of guilt that have arisen at the expense of Dimitris Papaggiopoulou and his accomplices. I speak on the basis of the law on the responsibility of the ministers. Where this law speaks of shareholders, it refers to the perpetrators, the workers and the shareholders, to all. I think we're aware of what we're doing here. If we haven't looked into it, let me say a word. We are exercising one of the four judicial powers of this House and we must exercise it consciously that we have been dismantled by political prejudices, intentions and commitments. For we, in exercising this judiciary of the House, are the National Delegations of guardians of justice and democracy in our country. I'm already talking as a professor of Public Law, so I'm going to go on. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] An investigation has been carried out on a circuit aimed at exterminating political opponents of the Government of 2015 until June 2019. What has happened and has been revealed to the committee is legalised and justifies our decision that Parliament should do the investigation. Measure here to see how many did not vote for "PERS", when you have two parties that have voted, at least our own PASOK and Change Movement, all the proposals for a committee of inquiry in Parliament and all the proposals for a pre-review committee, regardless of whom they were concerned. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] That's us, because we don't have anything to hide. Anyone who's scared is afraid of justice. Anyone who's ashamed of his processions wants to hide them, wants to bury them. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to do so. What's gonna happen to him if he votes? The truth will shine. That's our debt. It was right, therefore, that this special committee and rightly so, as it emerged after ten months of investigation, we decided that the case would be referred back to the Special Court to impose sanctions after the trial, as the law only defines as the law defines and not the outlawing circuits. It is a question of justice and a question of democracy, I said it this morning, and I repeat it now. Let's go see what the characteristics of the offense circuit are. The case-law has set it out, the theory has set it out and I gather it in four points. First of all, the position of Minister for anti-corruption. It was a target choice. You were not the first, you of the then government, Mr Nicoludis - I have asked you ten times here to explain why he left, because you have persecuted him - and you chose another person with dark and illegal affairs who took over as a member of the executive authority in judiciary, i.e. who is able to lead to the abolition of the discrimination of powers and the misuse of power. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, in the Areo Ice person who facilitates by acts and omissions the association of the Minister with the "tools", with his institutions in the field of justice. Unfortunately, instruments were found. Of all the public prosecutors, few, very few, measured in less than one hand's fingers, they violated their oath. They knew very well that they violated the Constitution and the provisions of the law and acted on mandate. I repeat - realising the strength of the phrase - knowing very well that they violate the Constitution and the provisions of the law. Fourth element, media available for everything, real executioners. I am not saying many, but certainly two plus one, as I shall say next. Two newspapers and one TV. Television is ERT, public television is supposed to be. A structure, according to the provision of Article 187(3) of the Criminal Code, has therefore been set, which the government has used at will. This is the case - and I am speaking under criminal law - in the case of the gang of Article 187(3) of the Criminal Code. Things are clear and the provisions are specific. Serious cases. I'm not going to talk about the Papachristos case and the Alfouzouzou case, because he was writing annoyingly about the other because he wanted to get a channel. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also referred to the previous speech in this House on this subject. Prosecutor Athanasios resisted that, as he testified in the Committee on Preliminary Examination without hood and with oath, he was under pressure to build evidence against these two people. Let's go where things went. The 'Mionisan case' is the first, because it is the mold, it is the method. The method used in NOVARTIS has been established there. How is that possible? Complaints from Greece, from Greek authorities, and reaction from the United States authorities to charges exported by Greece. They received what they were told from here and returned the evidence from there. What evidence? The ones who left Greece. Mobilisation of this information by the press and, for duty reasons, activation of the corruption prosecutor. That's it! That's what happened! This system was discovered. Dissemination of issues between these actions by two newspapers, by the newspaper "DIMPORTATIA" and by where the journalist worked, the only woman from the three journalists who, as we say, are involved in the issues of this gang, according to the Criminal Code, not in political expressions. Murdering of three individuals, individuals and not politicians: Mononis, Metaxas, Papastavrous. A private'monstrum' agreement, a monster, where three journalists agree with a private person that journalists will make decisions of the single institutions of justice and councils. In other words, three individuals, three outside the judiciary, agree to ensure, at the request of the agreed partners in this regard, that the decision of the judiciary and the boards, not only of one-off representatives, is taken. That's a monster of institutional, legal, political! But he's a monster! Who's the guarantor of the negotiation? It is the Minister of SYRIZA, Mr Papagelopoulos, during the statements, before we listen to the debate on the Pappa-Mionis, and in the text the signatory that has been tabled to Parliament, and we have all three hundred Members of Parliament. For 350 thousand euros, Mr Papagelopoulos was the guarantee role. That's where money's going to the table. I want you to pay attention to something, ladies and gentlemen, because we have seen this now, after the closure of the committee's work and it is shocking. I am not used to reading, I am able to do so in the oral speech, but here we need reading in order to come to an understanding. Mrs Toulupakis - I mention her name once - fails to include in the legal record of Papastavrous a product of legal assistance from Cyprus - the indication of abuse of power and breach of duty is clear. Listen to what he said on the 14th of July of this year - the prosecutor, like the interrogator, recommends exoneratingly for Papastavros - "Unfortunately the legal assistance from Cyprus had arrived in Greece since May 2016 and he..." - Papastavrou - "... provided explanations in June 2016, this oath was never notified to him before providing his explanations, not even later, until the preliminary examination was completed in November 2017". Here is the point now: 'Unfortunately, it has not been taken into account at all by the prosecutor who conducted the prosecution'. Who's that? It's Mrs. Tulupaki. We are not used to this, a judiciary - which has been politically speaking for a long time - omits to inform and incorporate critically innocent documents in the file concerning a man who has been afflicted. I did not know Papastavrous as a human, but in a statement he made I was moved by his phrase "I lost five years of my life and wanted to win them back". Every democrat is moved when the abuse of power is at that level, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause from the wings of the New Democracy and the Change Movement]] The third and last part of my speech is this: what provisions have been violated, to be here now. We are the three hundred Members who voted for the revision of Rule 86. We worked together in the previous House and this one. We are well aware of what Article 86 lays down. We are well aware of what the word'multiple' means. There is no legal person in the country who does not know that word. There is no first-year student who does not know her, because the debate on Article 86 is extensive. We all know that, except for the three prosecutors in the prosecution of corruption. The'minimum' of Article 86 has not just been violated, it has collapsed! The three prosecutors knew very well that they were crushing the Constitution, keeping the file for more than three months. And as it emerged from the pre-review committee, long before they prepared them. So, long before all three months ago - which is certainly not irreversible - they had it set up. I repeat the phrase second time: they knew very well what they were breaking and it is of great importance for the fraud that all three of them had in this case. Article 45b of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been violated, which has now become Article 47. That defines which witnesses can be witnessed in the public interest. Excluded. We all know them. She gave them 'and her unwittingly 'corruption' - she gave one at least - and we know that they had anticipated economic benefits from America. It was forbidden to be witnesses in the public interest, i.e. false hooded witnesses. Let's talk about things with their name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u414	We should pick it up slowly, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u415	I'll be late, Mr. President. I still have five minutes left. I don't want to remind you what I've been through three years. You'll hear me. Thirdly, Parliament's misinterpretation has been attempted twice by the prosecutor of corruption. He didn't file the FBI papers to the House. Two of them - I found them - were tabled by Mr Angelis on the duty of truth, as he said. However, the questions Mrs Toulupaki has never asked us, because the answers arise from the questions. We are talking about exporting, importing, playing games at the expense of justice and democracy. When the text of the 'NOVARTIS' compromise came with the authorities of the United States, it was wrong and selectively translated into this text, concealing data. I don't want to stay in this. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, no illegal practices have been identified. But for all those who were in this story in the'mushrooms', what the text of the agreement says is that there is no politically involved. Let's stay for a while in Article 187(3) of the Criminal Code. It's the case of the gang, the hypothesis of the criminal organization. This is Article 187. Those who know Article 187 and a few legal persons know that there must be a structure and hierarchy in the gang. There is the Minister, there are three journalists who play a role - they we know - one who needs to see if they play a part - we write these in our findings - and three prosecutors. One journalist who we record as the "fourth" - "to investigate", we say, as there have not been any inconsistent figures - but Maniadakis blackmailed him in November of 2018 to say what Toulopakis and himself wants, his newspaper, because if he does not say what he is asked, he will be troubled. He was threatening him. Not only was he threatening him, but this journalist pre-published what the corruption prosecutors did right after. This must be of concern to us to vote and to the justice it takes from tomorrow. He has already troubled, ladies and gentlemen, the retired prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in The Hague, Mr Luis Moreno - Okabo, Professor of Law at Harvard, who was invited to see what is happening in Greece and in 2018 - not now, but in 2018 - in his opinion that we enclosed in our findings because it is overwhelming, Mr. Louis Moreno-Okabo - not us, but a man with these parchments - says: Mr.Mionis is the main objective of an anti-Semitism campaign by anti-Semitism media in Greece, which is still under way. I am afraid some people are also doing the defenders against racism, against anti-Semitism, against the insult of human rights! They had been hanging out with them for four and a half years! It says, therefore, that Mr Mioney - I repeat, this is moving me, sensitises me - is the main aim of an anti-Semitic campaign by anti-Semitic media in Greece, which is still under way. The combination of anti-Semitic media supported by a network of Greek public officials under the guidance of the Deputy Minister of Justice responsible for corruption, Mr. Papagelopoulos, has led to Mionis becoming the subject in the last three years, in 2018, of a network of unfounded criminal investigations and to be exposed to defamation, as well as a high risk of imprisonment and financial damage. The plan, as well as the time for progress of the network of criminal investigations against Mr.Mionis, professional associates and his relatives, point to the co-responsibility between Greek public officials responsible for the investigations - a photo with the director of DIMMOCRATIA, it is the newspaper that leads the anti-Semitism - defamatory campaign against Mr.Mionis. The press, therefore, played a key role in the specific constructions and the Mion - Papastavrous - Metaxas case and the NOVARTIS case. Mr Papagelopoulos gave the evidence there, channelled it, published the newspapers and, I say again, acted on duty by the public officials, as Mr Moreno has here. What's all this doing to us in the whole? Ladies and gentlemen, the time has finally come for us - the violation of Article 239 of the Criminal Code in two ways, with two-way logic, abuse of power as a felony and a flood, two offences, one felony and one crime. Why am I saying 'with a two-way'? I'm saying that because we are the ten politicians, I'm the main offender in this case, but I'm the one, because I have the truth on my side, I'm not afraid to hide behind immunity. I was offered by the New Democracy, the PASOK, and for his own reasons Mer25. I said: No, I don't need these. Let Article 86 be violated. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] But you're afraid. Afraid, because these are the ones behind you. Not you. I'm not talking all along. I'm very careful. Remember who I've mentioned so far. The abuse of power is against us, against the ten politicians, but also against these three individuals. One went to kill one of the three mentioned above, Mioney, Papastaurou and Metaxa. And be careful: Abuse of power means an innocent I make him guilty. But there's also the reverse side: a guilty man I make him innocent. The Criminal Code says that. When I, Mr Kegeroglou and Mrs Christophilopoulou tabled a memorandum with our own, but also with SYRIZA, at the prosecutor's office of corruption, and said in June 2015 that there was no invoicing - then the invoices were all priced in general and in general - and the public lost money, this lady, Mrs. Prosecutor Kurublis, spent the time of Parliament's amortisation ordering investigation - with pre-examinations - put her in the NOVARTIS file - no matter what 'NOVARTIS' - and did not write the Minister's name. We were at the'mushrooms'. Your Minister then went with the original P.C. So here we have the backwards of abuse. So we have a guilty man - perhaps, I don't know - to make him innocent, to lift his criminal responsibilities. On account of his knowledge he did these things the prosecutor did. I would like to ask you, those who are careful and vigilant - I see from the Civic Opposition which lawyers are looking at and I would like to ask them in particular - to look at the reasoning she gave when I asked for her exception, what she said about it. He wrote the parliament's amortisation deadline from December 2015, not from the elections, as set out in the Constitution. You are defending illegal acts and illegal interests and people who violated the law while they knew what they were violating. He can't afford to know that elementary thing and have done an investigation against Ministers. And don't be surprised when you hear the same reproach from your side against her. Don't be surprised. I know what I'm saying. We also have a violation of Rule 259, ladies and gentlemen, a violation of duty and moral automobile and natural automobile. As before. We have a moral automobile in abuse and natural perpetrators. The violation of duty has a lot to do. I can't make it. I can see that they are dissatisfied with each other. I understand them, they're right. I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u416	It's an ancillary offense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u417	All right, my colleague. Listen to it. I'm done. Infringement of a duty arises immediately and inconsistently from the infringement of Article 86 of the Constitution. You don't get away with this when you've done it. When you've done this, you're not gonna get away with it, whatever you say. We've got four offenses so far. In case of a gang not to expand. I had more to say. We have the blackmail: 'If you don't give this money, nothing will happen'. We have the bribery of a senior official, minister and employee. I was told by one of your ministers, my very close friend, once, in a private debate: why should everything happen? I said to him: For everything you promised, you did not do and you were left with a weapon: our dissolution. A weapon was left to you to contact the Greek people, to hold on to the government. That's it. What? Mr. Papagelopoulos revealed it coming out of the Maximos Palace. I am not concerned with the phrase "on a look at the case-file I understood within half an hour that it was the biggest scandal". We say it many times. They've all said that. I'm not coming back to this. I was concerned with his last sentence: "Justice did its duty - she understood it within half an hour - now to do their duty and the political parties and to do self-cleaning." I mean, erase us. That's what the man said. When it happened in the House of Parliament and it seemed that you were sailing, it came out of the next sitting and said, "I didn't mean politicians, I meant others." From this position he said it. We then called him "and why do you take us so long and have you thrown the country into adventures?" No, he says, I didn't say about politicians. Because he didn't say about politicians, and he was an anti-corruption minister, did anything for doctors? Did he notice if the investigations are progressing? Of course not. Before the noise occurred in Parliament in 2018 and after him, until you delivered. Nothing about the particular issue that it raised and the 'NOVARTIS' compromise with the United States authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u418	What's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Janakopoulos, it's human. He's a toucher.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u420	The only one affected!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u421	That's why I'm leaving him, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u422	All right, Mr. President. I ask you to let me finish. I'll be done. I'm at my last point. In the pre-inquiry when he was saying his arguments, he was again reminded that he was talking about politicians. And he says: Loverd said about self-cleaning parties. Is that bad? He liked it then. At the end of the day his first word, his first phrase, which reveals why all this happened. I am not adding the financial interests which, in the case of Mioney, are visible, but perhaps - I cannot be clear and specific, as in all the previous ones - some shares of the profits from the possible condemnation of NOVARTIS in the United States do not leave me indifferent as thoughts when one expresses them. However, the dissolution of opposition parties and SYRIZA's long-term evacuation was the goal of this whole process. That's the purpose, that's where the dome is documented. Did we, too, get Euros compensation from NOVARTIS? Nothing. After four and a half years, nothing. The other health examiners have been said. I'm overdoing it. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, when there is a crime, it teaches constitutional law, criminal law, literature, there must be punishment. Crime is not unpunished because it will be repeated, because it will not be the last time that this has happened. That is what our institutional culture demands from wherever you see him, from the legal point of view, from his cultural point of view. That is what this moment is demanding for us at the National Representation and we will be called to vote shortly. There was a crime, there must be punishment, the punishment to follow. I shall close with the following phrase, Mr President. We, so far, have demonstrated by our conclusion that there is a minister who must be prosecuted this evening, but there are six of us, within the meaning of the law that I have described, partners, namely, literally and physical contractors and co-workers, all the charges, as recorded in the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. These will go ahead, they must go ahead. As I have given in this Chamber twice my word of honour, I will not rest if this case is not closed. Everyone who's involved in the crimes will be punished. No one will escape. No one's gonna get away because the road's still ahead. I am not talking about politicians, I am referring to political Papaggiopoulou, about five years ago as a member of your government and those within the meaning of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, when you give an oath in front of 250 MPs once, 250 MPs and the second time, you have to respect it and I have so far kept it. I'll be in court too, because I'm a vindicator, the defender of the charge. I'll be there. But, today, there is also a cleansing act for us all. This is the last day that poisons in this Chamber on this matter. He's going behind us. Just a few judicial bodies are now taking office, that is where the case should go, ladies and gentlemen. That is what we need to vote on, and that is what the Change Movement is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I let Mr. Loverdo speak so much because he was hurt. The rest of you have 12 minutes. They will not get away at all, because the Members will slowly come to vote and I am obliged to respect the people that are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u424	What do you say, Mr. President? Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Janakopoulos, you're very skilled. You can tell them in 12 minutes everything. First, will you or Mr. Voutsi speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u426	To get Mr. Voutsis to the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u427	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Voutis. Mr. Janakopoulos, note that I'm giving you 12 minutes. Mr. Tsipras has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u428	He's intervened, he hasn't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u429	It was an intervention, all right. I wasn't in it. In any case, I do not feel like stealing, I am in the mood. The former President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, now has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying this, because we have heard too much and with excellent commitment and patience, for gangs, for constructions and for serious characterisations. So I'm starting, like, I repeat, I could finish. For four and a half years we have moved on the basis of two great choices that we had had confidence in, we had been commanded by the Greek people: one was to make every effort, according to the law, to clear up miserable stories that had largely led the country to bankruptcy. And the other was that we moved at every stage, from the first to the last minute, with confidence and support to justice, the presumption of innocence and the basis of all the principles of the rule of law. This was the excellent commitment with which we entered into government duties and on that basis we went. All the other things that have been heard are political views and insults, are attempts to ensure that a substantial attempt is not made in this country again. Mr. Samaras earlier put the former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, in the candidacy. He took this step, he responded to the political challenge that had been made by this Step by Mr Tsipras. It has already made it quite clear - not to mention it better - that, with its presence here today, Alexis Tsipras tried, in one way or another, the unity that he needs, the consensus, whether this can be achieved and achieved in the face of dangers for the country, to offset them by a occult, with an attempt to overcome today's debate. It is not only untrue - look at the Minutes - because Alexis Tsipras said for a whole year the attitude of responsibility, of extreme responsibility that the Civic Responsibility has held over all these months on critical issues, in critical events, in critical corners. So we didn't ask for anything today. It is for our own reasons, for our own ideology, for our own political attitude and for our own political mandate, which we have taken from this people, to move unitedly, with consensus, where that can be, to move with patriotic responsibility, with a responsibility that really leads the country forward. We've already done that. We didn't ask for any consideration in this. On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, I would like to say that we are also calling for a certain amount of compensation. What about? And a favor? By who? Why? You have to think about the political life of the country after the pandemic, after the major economic problems, the social issue that has existed and will exist in the country - we all know it very well - in the coming months, with the dangers and outstandings on national issues, you have made the strategic choice in the last two months literally with a 'industrial' of scandalology and frescoes to divide the Greek people and create a moor in the political life of the country. You should be concerned about how these watermelons - it is their time - can be in the same armpits at the same time. We have no problem in pursuing this policy of responsibility by ourselves. So Mr Samaras has been abducting and doing what Mr Mitsotakis has been doing for ten months now, he has not done, the absentee of these procedures, Mr Mitsotakis and you who represented him in the committee, that is to say that political responsibility, but not only moral responsibility, programming, knowledge, belonged to the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras. I will not repeat for him what he has said twice and three times. If you want to continue. Continue for everyone, continue for the Chief of Officerial Response. Immerse as long as you want in the gutter in political life. You'll be lost, but the country will be lost. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In fact, Mr Samaras, like other colleagues, has stirred attention to statements made by our colleagues in the previous period, the previous decades, left-wing leaders who have expressed themselves in various ways for policies of the SYRIZA government. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said this openly: we have been from a point and then political opponents with a number of those named here on key issues, from whether we are going to leave or stay in Europe, from the euro or from the drachma to the utilization of the government's work and its evaluation. As political opponents. Not with Manolis Glezo until the last minute. So hold on to it when you clear up and group out situations. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am really sorry - I see Mrs Bakoyannis who has a route - to Mr Samaras for all these years how much time could someone be talking here with cardboards about what his colleagues have said on your sidelines, from the centre right, from the far right? Are these arguments of a former Prime Minister at such a critical meeting on this matter? A little serious. Let me give you a magical picture. There was no scandal. The country has reached bankruptcy for various reasons that we still do not know. We don't know about the equipment. We don't know about the cost of the drug. We don't know about overcompensation. We do not know about lists, storage, lists and money that billions had gone abroad. We don't know about offshore. We don't know anything. Nothing happened. It's no big deal. They were some doctors when prescribing they went to the pharmacies and supplemented five - ten so that they could add to their gray income. But it's not like that. You know that very well. We've spoken politically in here for so many years. There was a scandal. There were responsibilities. There have been billions of them in the case of the drug. We know. There was a huge 'Novartis' scandal. There was the final decision now of the United States, the new Jersey court, which is clear as it beams horizontally - and goes up - the responsibilities it reasonably confers on us in a way that will continue the investigation. It's not the jurisdiction of the U.S. judiciary. I will repeat this for the second time: what justice says. But not when justice - let me speak - politically does not sit at us, when justice does not interest us, when justice does not do well then badly on the head of justice. We're picking up and pressing charges, and we're unprecedentedly sending the head of the financial crime to be tried, intimidating judges. Tell me how many blows through this account? It could have been pressing. To have been written by some of you. I see you, Mr. Marcopoulou. A whole, coherent, nice account to be taken and impressed. How many blows have been given in what directions? A blow to justice in dozens of ways. The non-recognition of the protected witnesses, which is an international obligation in the country, with the complaints made and with the appeals before the Adolescents' Council for Mrs Toulopakis and everyone else to stop the investigation. With threats, I am given a decision within Parliament. I'm sorry. I don't see Costa Chiara. We know him and I appreciate him. Minister for Justice ruled that all ten cases had to be filed for a long time as if we were playing a play game in here. So many blows to justice. Unfortunately, many blows to the parliamentary procedure. Let me tell you. Let us see the history, Mr President, of the committees of inquiry and of the previous pre-reviews. For "SIEMENS" you know there is a little room. Don't open it or everything will come on you. I know where it is. There are so many files and nothing happened at all. But at least it acted as a pre-review committee on the basis of some data. That's not how it happened. A lot of issues in the pre-review committee will be involved - if possible! - executives of former SYRIZA ministers, whom no one had said or now says they have the slightest responsibility. Are you saying something about the responsibility of Mr. Janakopoulos and Mr. Polakis? I don't see Paul. Are you saying anything? Then why did you cut them off the committee? And can we make committees based on our own compositions? So there are a number of misdemeanours and apologies and the parliamentary procedure. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the political system, I would say right here and KINAL, all of this together, also targeted the press. Clean things. Journalism worldwide also has that role. The investigative, the uncovering of scandals. She has her responsibilities. There is relevant legislation if anyone wants to resort to slandering. Limits. Is that possible? We got the prosecutors' names. We name the name of Papadakou, Vaxvanis, Philippakis, and whoever else wanted to write or write or reproduce what they wrote about this case. Right or wrong are judged every time. Isn't that right? Can it be evidence of a case-file, evidence of a gang in which you bring Mr. Papagelopoulos, our former Minister, without there being any suggestion of natural perpetrators of what has happened? I mean, the gang, how he acted. There's no one on your point. In two big paws, one seeks to find out what has finally happened and is referred through this account, the journalistics designed to be coherent - I repeat - a man as a moral automobile without the consequences of physical autocrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u431	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u432	Mr Samaras has always had a very big problem with SYRIZA. He wanted to get - so he thinks - his political justice and his revenge. His speech was indeed an epitome of a re-institutional political speech which did not have any ground. From the outset, Mr Samaras suffered the political trick of coming a party beyond the data and beyond the coup d'états where they existed until then, of taking over the rule of the country and of taking on the obligations that this people gave us to move on to democracy and exit from the memoranda, the moral advantage and all that you are mocking about. Mr. Samaras never accepted that. It was a very big political defeat. He didn't even hand over Maximus to Alexis Tsipras. Besides, you remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u433	This is what you are closing down, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u434	Allow me. I won't be long. So what did Mr. Samaras want? Mr. Samaras has taken the strategy of parentheses. He had prepared his parentheses strategy in consultation with forces outside the country, in other words lenders, so that we could find ourselves in the toughest in the first two months. That's well known. It's registered from all sides. And he wanted the Left to walk into the political system. To go for two, three months to rule and from there on, be of the cop and the kick. He didn't do it. Nor can he now be graced, nor will he be graced in the future. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This concept - I am seen by Makis Voridis and I am signalled by the strategy that Mr Mitsotakis has developed in his current government. When he saw that parentheses and other things didn't come out, what did he say last year before the election? Man said so publicly, wear a batch, and no offense. Isn't that right, Mr. Voridis? That all institutional ways must be found, that is to say, the ones we have heard since the morning, so that the Left can be found in two-year-olds outside power. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u435	Hang up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u436	So it is clear that you are creating a caricature for the political life of the place. You want to rewrite the story. It worked well for you that while you were one of the two main forces that went bankrupt, with all the evidence - there was no third, so you two - reached it where you arrived and suffered what we had suffered for ten years. It went well because you were re-voked last year and you are currently a majority in Parliament. I'm fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u437	The whole PASOK you've taken with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u438	Mr. Marcopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u439	So what did you do? So, on the occasion of NOVARTIS, do we not rewrite history, that for four and a half years it has been a gang that had an outlawing, para-state, that has had various suspects? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I challenge you - I have done so before in public, but it has not been answered - to say a businessman whose file over the last four and a half years has gone a little further than the order that was to be checked. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I've told you several times. I also challenge you - and these challenges you are creating - because Mr Samaras mentioned earlier, by name, Mrs Gerovasili, Rena Dourou, the Poppa, in a series of executives, and indeed, he said that others are coming, etc. - to say there's been a trace of interactive and money laundering in that government for four and a half years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You should know that the consistency of a strategy as I described to you earlier - and I think we are talking nicely and correctly between us - will be a very hard conflict, while there will be the social issue, while the country will be roaming internationally. We have seen with what allies are saying, for example, about 'damaging waters' or others that will give us money next year. You take a huge, historical responsibility. It's yours. We would point it out to you, and with that, that, as we have been, from the very beginning to the last minute with a code of values - because this has already been mentioned - out of the question of the rule of law, justice, democracy, freedoms, consensus where it can be done, the indiscriminate political system, as we have clearly, consistently and with great commitment, we will be here and now not to do thanks to you - you have not understood, understood, monitored and correspondingly view what you are doing - but it is the only and main weapon that this people have given to the Left, which has come to governance and which will come back to governance in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u440	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentary spokesman from SYRIZA, Mr Janakopoulos. Mr Janakopoulou, please very much through my heart for the time, because the vote had to begin at 21.00. Mr. Vardakis, I've been watching you for a while. You're very vibrant today! It's the oil from Crete! Mr. Janakopoulos is very good, so in twelve minutes he can tell it all. I like him and he likes me, so he won't make me sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u441	I shall try, Mr President, to be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u442	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u443	I hope, of course, in your relative tolerance! I want to start, because the situation is extremely critical, the moments are too serious, with something that is not exactly about today's debate, but I think it is much more important and much more serious. The absent government is directly required, and if the government cannot do so, it can be said that the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman, who, as I understand it, will take the floor after me, can explain whether the German newspaper 'BILD' is valid, according to which yesterday Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany prevented a strong episode at the time of Mr Mitsotakis a little later - and to do the thanks of the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoukasou - was an American-American at the parliamentary event. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is extremely crucial to answer whether you are disobeying or confirming the specific post of the German newspaper.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Janakopoulos, we ran out of it this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u445	This is in relation to the crucial issue regarding the entire Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u446	Amerimneairmon? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Vitsa, Mrs. Bakoyannis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u448	But I can't, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u449	Mr. Janakopoulou, please get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u450	I expect the answer, and I do not understand why Mrs Bakoyannis is resurrecting. Answer Mrs Bakoyannis, or in any case answer the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u451	I'll answer! I'll tell you why!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u452	Just one comment: I respect the fact that Mr Loverdos, who spoke half an hour ago, has the status of a criminally persecuted person and in that sense, will not be dealt with any further. I will only say this: all the lawyers or almost all the legal and factual allegations made before this House by Mr Loverdos have put them forward in his request for an exception against Mrs Toulupaki, and all of them have been rejected by the relevant Council of Appeal. That's all Mr. Loverd said. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Maybe today we didn't hear Mr. Mitsotakis. It may not have the political courage to appear before the House before the House and explain why all this unthinkable, unconstitutional and anti-parliamentary fiasco has been orchestrating. But we heard the head of the extreme right-wing nationalist gang of New Democracy, who's been careerd with patriocapilia...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u453	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u454	...the man who plucked the Greek people from 2012 to 2014, implementing the hardest, most savage social plundering policies, coming before the House and pretending to be the victim. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That was Mr. Samaras today. We heard him tell us that from the preliminary interrogation - what preliminary investigation? - by the pre-examination committee, made by its commissioners, members of this nationalist extreme right-wing gang of New Democracy, there has been evidence of eight felonies against Mr Papagelopoulos. Really, an overwhelming argument! We're down! Mr. Samaras hears himself that we think he's after us or that he's after Mr. Tsipras. I understand, sympathize and sympathize with the nerves and disillusionment and poorness of Mr Samaras with Mr Tsipras, because, whether we want it or not we want it, it is Tsipras who led him that night to the Arrow - the resignation of the leadership of the New Democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In any case, my assessment is that there is no point in dealing with anyone, apart from the members of his gang, with Mr Samaras. Because, beware: When one feels the need to talk about himself in the third home and when one feels the need to argue about how important he is, it is obvious that this indicates and demonstrates that his political career has been closed and has been closed because of Mr. Tsipras. In this sense, I sympathize, sympathize, respect and do not comment any further on Mr Samaras' disgraceful and obscene speech. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But another answer, I think, is appropriate and appropriate to Mr Georgiadis. Watch out. I, using a standard psychoanalytical practice, will not respond with my own words. I'll answer with his own words. You said: 'NOVARTIS' can pay doctors and politicians, but it also saves lives'. What else does one expect Mr. Georgiadis to say in order to find himself out and not to need to omit any other comment in relation to his political position? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now we're going to the main thing. I listened carefully to the speeches of those who intervened both from New Democracy and from KINAL and several had the political courage to speak about our own moral stature, about the moral stature of the Left. Mr Georgiadis, for example, and Mr Samaras also spoke about the code of values that followed and will continue to follow. Listen to something, not just you two, but the rest of you. The party of the Patakos fans, the Mauritius party, the Nicaiki party, the Poulis party, the Papagoropoulos party, the Christoforikos party, cannot talk about our moral stature. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He can't talk about our own moral stature. The party that plundered and bankrupt the country should be much more careful. Let me say something about Mrs. Gennamas. The companions and heirs of Tsukatos, Mandeli, Papantoniou and Tsochazopoulos, neither can they speak of the moral stature of SYRIZA and the Left. You should put this in your head very well. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The parties that plundered the country are today completing a leading anti-parliamentary fiasco and a premise of conduct.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u455	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u456	Why was the drunkenness announced? And why was the fiasco discounted? Because the decisions were biased, no matter what. You have had them discounted and you have already received them, not before the preliminary examination committee was set up, already at the first moment of your governance, not to say when you were still in opposition. Is it not accidental, after all, that the first time this case has seen the light of publicity - what is the case? The case of "NOVARTIS" - the defensive line that came out in the next quarter was that it was a manufacturing. And what's next? He followed the setting up of a scenario to enable this preconceived decision to be documented on your defense line. So you tried to tie and sew the facts in such a way that you could justify the defensive line you chose from the beginning. And above all not to defend yourselves. And that was inside. What you were defending was a system of power. It was a whole system of power. And that is exactly what you continue to defend today, the power system that plundered the country, the citizens and finally led to the social disaster of 2010-2014. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of KINAL, when we talk about the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, we are talking about a single, perhaps most important, perhaps the biggest episode of the country's plundering, and indeed about the sensitive health space that shows just the absolute cynicism and social cannibalism on which you have ruled the country for forty years. SYRIZA doesn't say that. It is said in the reports by Mr Rakindzis that you have appointed as Chief Inspector General for Public Administration. From 2011 to 2014 she was bombing you with reports that she was talking about corruption in health the previous one, but also the present one. We don't. Mr Surla's report says so. Mr. Sourlas isn't a smuggler. Twelve billion a year from corruption in the health sector. Who did this corruption? The doctors? Do you understand what corruption means? Mrs Bakoyannis has confessed to it in an unsuspecting time - and she should refer to her political statements - that when we talk about a 'NOVARTIS' scandal, we are talking about an overpricing scandal. Who did the drug overpricing? The Ministers. They have the decisions. They put the signatures on them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do not try to degrade the "NOVARTIS" scandal to some doctors who were funded by "NOVARTIS" and traveled to prescribe. The NOVARTIS scandal is an overpricing scandal. You have to understand that. You have to admit it. That is why we invite you to do the self-criticism for all the disgraceful and slandering you have said in the last three years, that is, since, that is, when the scandal of "NOVARTIS" saw the light of publicity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can we talk more? Many New Democracy MPs talked about a scandal that surfaced in 2018. You are probably forgetting that, as has emerged, the first reference to a 'NOVARTIS' scandal is found in a document which Mrs Ryku - which you are defending and on which you are essentially relying on to 'close' this disgraceful slandering category addressed to both Mr Papagelopoulos and Mr SYRIZA - concealed it. And it's a document in November 2016 that talks about bribes of government officials. An FBI document, which came to the attention of the then-prosecutor-in-law corruption. Clean and clean! Shall we go down? Do you have anything to say about Mr. Froze's mail? We're going well! It's all right! We have managed to protect the prices of our medicines, despite the fact that since 2009 there has been a decrease in the prices of all other medicines, all other pharmaceutical companies! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How did Mr. Guardian protect his medications? Alone? Of course we come - I will not say much - in the extrajudicial compromise. I am talking about the extrajudicial compromise of NOVARTIS with the US public before the judiciary in New Jersey. Read it again, it can do you good. What does this extrajudicial compromise say in paragraph 42? He says that “NOVARTIS” used unfair practices and bribed government officials and state officials, “government officials”, to influence the government of the country, in order to favour the company’s interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u457	It does not say 'government'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u458	Mr President, I would like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u459	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u460	And I ask: How would the interests of the company benefit? With the massive prescriptions of medicine the doctors did? Is that a government job? So what does the extrajudicial compromise say there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u461	Please, Mr. Janakopoulou, let's get it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u462	Nevertheless, Mr Mitsotakis as an orchestra for this slandering campaign against SYRIZA and the Left, but also his executive arm, not only do they question the existence of a NOVARTIS scandal involving political persons - what political persons? Political persons involved in the period 2012-2015 with the unfair practices of “NOVARTIS” – but has mobilised any unfair means to justify this slandering campaign. Mr. Voutsis said so too. Mr. Lappas said it too. Mr. Paulakis said it too. Mr Papapas, like all the speakers in SYRIZA, said so. Extortion of witnesses, extortion of judicial officers, multiple sues, anti-constitutional medals in the committee, guided testimonies, which you knew long before the witnesses came to testify on the preliminary committee you set up. But also mobilise any extra-institutional paracentric power you control to guide and lead us to prosecute Mrs Toulopakis. Because everyone's talking about sugar. Sixty-page copies of Mr. Samaras' message, without answering any of the main, key questions of the investigation. No one's answering the Sofalaki conclusion, why? Because it vindicates confiscation of the political opponent. But why am I saying all this? I'm not talking about you. I am talking about the Greek people, and we are all talking about the Greek people, because we know that few, if not any of you, can be persuaded. Fantasticism, vengeance, hatred for the Left, guide you and will continue to guide you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u463	And please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u464	There is therefore absolutely no point in talking about the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, not only because it is based on Greek citizens, but because we must understand that the preconceived decision and the reinforced persecution of Papagelopoulos only a moment of a strategic plan, a strategic plan for the establishment of the non-stopic regime. This symbolizes the message of Mr Samaras "never again", symbolizes the implementation by Mr Mitsotakis as an orchestra of this strategic project, the fascist inspiration of a vortic theory, to take all the institutional measures that will exclude the Left from returning to power. Be careful, the cynicism of Mr. Voridis, whose theorem Mr. Mitsotakis applies, is such that, when they blame him for fascist inspiration, plans and businesses, all he has to do is laugh. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Janakopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u466	Listen. The reconstruction of the post-war state, Mr Vorides, which you have supported, for which you have fought and which you continue to serve, is not for laughter, Mr Vorides. He had dead, had tortured, had persecuted, and it's not for laughing, Mr. Vorides. I wouldn't laugh if I were you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u467	Hey, what do I do? Should I cry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u468	And what's this strategic plan to close? Any person, any force, any judge, any civil servant, any citizen, must dare stand up against the implementation of your totalitarian policies against the Mitsotakis regime. And in this operation of Mitsotakis regime, all means are mobilised: Secret services, agents. Mrs. Bakoyannis, you know something about secret services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u469	A lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u470	Mr. Janakopoulos, not dialogue. Should you have closed down and had a dialogue now? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u471	You who are laughing, you know something from secret services. Does the name Nicosias mean anything to you? Does the name Mauritius mean anything to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Janakopoulos, say what you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u473	So cut the laughs. Well, secret services, agents, outlawing circuits, police terrorism, tagged - with 20 million euros - media publishers, Mitsotakis system journalists, blackmails, threats. The message is clear: Anyone who raises a head, who dares to question, becomes persecuted, will be in detention, will be chased, enters the fridge if he is a civil servant and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u474	Please, let it be completed, we've already reached eighteen minutes. Mr. Janakopoulos, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u475	We've been through this before. And the goal is not SYRIZA, the goal is not Tsipras, the goal is this society, it is the workers, it is the rights, it is wages, it is the people who suffer from your miserable policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u476	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u477	Well, in this strategic plan, the totalitarian strategic plan, SYRIZA is not even going to participate as his legitimateist in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u478	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u479	Quiet, Mr. Pleari! Thank you very much, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u480	That is why we are not going to legalise him, we are not going to accept, we are going to be watchers of this political misery, this political campaign to exterminate your political opponents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u481	Mr. Janakopoulos, please! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u482	We'll leave you alone to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u483	Thank God they're so democrat and they're sitting there listening!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u484	Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Loverdos and Mr Georgiadis have asked for the floor on personal grounds and will have the floor for a minute. Mrs Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u485	My goal is not to answer Mr. Janakopoulos's delirium. For reasons, however, I have an obligation because it caused me to remind the new SYRIZA, the one who was presented today in the Greek Parliament, that there were some fighters of democracy who, on Oropus, entered prison, were tortured and the song of Mickey Theodorakis began there: "You are the one who was tortured. Unfortunately, some of the symmetrical styles of Janakopoulos today confirmed in the Greek Parliament that "you poor SYRIZA, forgetting Ororos".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u487	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman referred to the speech by Mrs Gennimata and made a referral back to the forty years when the PASOK party ruled the place, identified three - four cases around which there were noises for persons and things. You're scratching on the slut. Mr President, in the four to five years left to power, not only have they been placed to balance this record, but also to overcome it. I want to tell you something. We have confined ourselves to talking about what is currently the subject of the meeting. There are other things coming, Mr President. There's more coming. Not only will they balance, but they will overcome what he said with four years of governance. 'We are not chewing', Mr President. We don't listen without answering. Every challenge they have, like this tonight, will have an answer. Whew and woe of what they have to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u488	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u489	It does not matter how SYRIZA left for the history and minutes of the Greek Parliament, Mr President, I would like to make two comments. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Voridis, please be quiet. I understand you're in the oestrus, but a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u490	But for what? We agree on what they said!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u491	Quiet, please, you're left alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u492	Observation one. Mr. Janakopoulos came to the Greek Parliament, even at this last hour, choosing to lie consciously. In the 'NOVARTIS' agreement - the United States of America there is nowhere the phrase 'government officials', he said. There are phrases of "foresign officials". In fact, in order to avoid any misunderstanding as to the phrase 'foresign officials' in the Annex, paragraph 3 reads: 'when we write the phrase 'foresign officials', we mean doctors of the public health system, because according to the United States legislation, doctors working in a public health system are understood as 'foreign of ficials'. This very clear agreement was written in by Mr.Janakopoulos at the Step of the Parliament, and he said it was "government officials" to accuse his political opponents, even at this late hour. We're talking about a regular system liar and then nothing. And, of course, as far as I am concerned, this nameless documentary of so-called Swiss television, a left-wing documentary was there with Vaxvanis, I answered her question about why Greece still put "NOVARTIS" medicines on SYRIZA, that is, while at the same time accusing her of giving money to politicians. When you see the whole dialogue, you understand what I was asked and what I said. So we're going on with the same scalp. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, I shall close all these arguments for the parties that went bankrupt in Greece and who have no right to speak, and so forth, all of them were called four and a half years, and people are fed up with them. We went to the polls, ten units were "eatin' in the head" by the Greek people and now we're 20 in the polls. Let's go down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u493	Thank you very much, Mr. Georgiadis. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bougas, has the floor for twelve minutes. From me good night, and thank you very much. I'm fine. You're happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember how today's day began. He began with the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Tsipras, coming and not much to haggle national reconciliation with the amnesty of criminal offences. And how does the day end? Because of the unprecedented misfortune of arguments, Mr. Tzanakopoulos asked me to give an explanation of his publication 'BILD'. Unfortunately, today I had no contact with the authors of the 'BILD'. He also defended the moral advantage of the Left. If there is a moral advantage I will not reply to him, his companions will reply to him, a reference made by the previous speakers, Mr Constantopoulos, Mr Lafazan, Mr Alavanos, Mrs Constantopoulos. However, I would like to point out that if anyone wants to invoke the moral advantage, they should be able to constantly prove that they have it. And the President of Parliament has shown that yesterday there were no 'American-American's'. However, we were waiting today for SYRIZA to show that there were no 'lights' and, unfortunately, they did not prove it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the findings of the Special Parliamentary Committee, which proposes that there should be no criminal prosecution against Mr Papagelopoulos for two of the offences we have investigated and that the four of them be prosecuted for eight. Allow me, in order not to degrade the work of nine months of the committee, to make a brief overview of what has taken place during the committee meetings. We've worked for about nine months. Sixty-four meetings were held in total, of which four were held in General Security in Athens, in two hundred and thirty-five hours. What has happened in the committee has been recorded almost 12 and a half thousand pages of practice. Twenty-three witnesses were examined in total, two of which were altered due to the protection status, which had been attributed to them. We received hundreds of documents from various authorities, and sent other documents directly to those authorities, which are mentioned in detail in the introductory part of the finding. The documents to which Mr Kegeroglu refers, that is, the FBI documents, as well as the documents of the corruption prosecutors that caused their mission, we asked for them three times, Mr Kegeroglu. You remember it very well. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the Chief Prosecutor of the Ice Bay ordered the Corruption Prosecutor to send these documents to the committee, we did not receive them. The above figures, ladies and gentlemen, show the volume of work done by the committee. When she began her work, many were those who professed that the evidence was weak, that the committee would soon become politically confronted, or that there would be reasonable netting and political purposes that would disorientate research and strengthen the distrust of citizens in parliamentary committees, which investigate criminal responsibilities of ministers. In addition, fresh were the memories of the pre-examination - fiasco set up by the SYRIZA government to establish the Parliament's lack of responsibility for the crime of the Minister's bribery and to send the case back to justice, with the sole purpose of maintaining the hostage of political persons. It is true that some have attempted to hamper the work of the committee to mitigate its prestige so that they can denouncing it and question its conclusions and decisions. They failed! It was with determination that the truth was sought. Critical aspects of cases that had not been touched up until then were not touched by justice and people were examined with a crucial role, which brought important information and documents. We have not allowed witnesses to be seen, and we have given everyone, and especially the investigator - and I stress this - the procedural capacity to testify in comfort. The assessment of evidence shows, ladies and gentlemen, a clear way of acting by a group involving prosecutors, politicians and journalists. The function of this group was almost identical in all cases that we investigated. There was a targeting of natural persons, press releases of certain journalists and media against them, a mission by Mr. Papaggioulou to prosecutors, who conducted criminal proceedings at the expense of individuals, resulting in their economic, moral and professional extermination. In some cases, the group did not hesitate to succeed even against prosecutors who did not agree to discipline in the directions it gave them. In the same way of action, i.e. the dissemination of publications, the prosecutors against whom disciplinary proceedings were subsequently brought are targeted, in order to be able to resist them. In the ‘NOVARTIS’ case, the purpose was to incriminate 10 political opponents of the SYRIZA government. How does this turn out to be a detailed and well-defined reference to the findings at your disposal and analysed - I do not want to repeat - both the majority rapporteur and the colleagues who spoke before me. However, I would like to say that the very same methodology used in the NOVARTIS case is followed in the case of Mr Saby Mioney. But here, I would like to point out, the objective is twofold: on the one hand, the persecution of political opponents with a central objective now, the partner of former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, Mr Papastavrous, but on the other hand, this is also the new element, the provision of economic benefits, hundreds of thousands of euros, through extortion for criminal persecution. In both cases, it was immediately the involvement of other ministers of the then government with the involvement of Minister Nikos Papapas, who seems to have a role as mediator in the settlement of serious criminal cases and to conclude a circuit itself, members of which had a different agenda than the one that had the "magaz", certainly implying the government of SYRIZA. He does, in fact, surely say that some make a lot of money. It also does not hesitate to propose to Mr Mionis, with whom he seems to be familiar, and this also shows the sincerity of the conversation, the indictment of Papastavrous of the wife of the Prime Minister, Mrs Marvas Mitsotakis, in order to enjoy good treatment in the criminal proceedings, which was under way. And while all this was happening, ladies and gentlemen, another scandal was evolving at the same time. And what was that scandal? The scandal, which is particularly important, is the indifference of the audit mechanisms and the prosecutors of what really happened in the case of "NOVARTIS", for the real scandal "NOVARTIS". The obsession of the criminal group, which I mentioned above, in the persecution of political opponents, did not allow for effective control of the company's unfair practices, as was done in other countries. And this non-investigation of the actual 'NOVARTIS' scandal, for which the SYRIZA government at the time is responsible alone, but also the prosecutors who handled the case, has resulted in the fact that it is not investigated, which might lead to the punishment of the guilty and, on the other hand, the loss of many millions of euros by the Greek State, the administrative sanctions and the fines it could have imposed and should have imposed. The Commission's findings include a detailed description of the facts and a thorough assessment of the evidence, it responds with completeness and on the basis of the case-file for each category, but also with all the objections of the audited and his lawyers, who, despite the intensity and exaggeration with which they have been submitted, do not seem to have found a response to the legal world. Today I have followed the speeches of all the Members of Parliament - co-rapporteurs of Mr Papagelopoulos from the outset. There was no breach in the logical and legal sequence of the conclusion, which means that it is fully justified and thoroughly justified. Ladies and gentlemen, the NOVARTIS case follows the all-out negotiation in the first half of 2015, the referendum, the cubism and the third inappropriate memorandum brought by SYRIZA. The pre-review committee has sent a message, a message of the good functioning of the institutions and the unscrupulous will of the majority Members to seek the truth. The investigation of the 'NOVARTIS' project led to the Mioney case being investigated. Immediately afterwards, the operation of a violating circuit within the judicial and police authorities was revealed. Then came the Kalogerica case, that is to say the attempt to complete control over the media by the SYRIZA Government, and just the day before yesterday, a case of particular legal nature, in particular, moral deceptiveness. In all these cases it seems clear and effective to operate an organised violating circuit. The crimes of the common criminal law allegedly committed by those who participated in this violating and relinquishing cycle constitute an act of the same kind as the functioning of our democratic culture, to touch the constitutional organization and drafting of the Greek state, a key element of which - I would remind you - is the separation of powers, in accordance with Article 26 of the Constitution. Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA have to explain. Instead of explaining, however, its Members and members, at stake in themselves in their personal, scientific and political dignity, they have done a relentless amount of institutional decay and today they have fled from the Chamber. Who listens to the SYRIZA MPs and who believes them? Ladies and gentlemen, the question raised is clear: could we, as we know, ignore the shocking evidence, documents, testimonies, confirmation from the sequence of facts and events? The answer is clearly negative. Everything that has been mentioned and found in the case-file is a strong sign that the offences have been committed, for which Mr Papagelopoulos's reference is proposed, which is not compromised by other evidence. Nor did the audited contribute the contrary, but was content with his view that it was reasonable to degrade the charge. The sober and objective crisis would force SYRIZA to ask for reference to justice today. We certainly did not expect him to do so. Since the first time, his MPs in the committee took on the role of counsellors from Mr Papagelopoulos and his colleagues, they were fully identified with the person in charge, followed and followed by his destiny. Today's sitting, ladies and gentlemen, is historic. Since the House has prosecuted Mr. Papagelopoulos, the reason for him and the participants is justice. The Judges, following the voice of their conscience and driven by their intact judgment, must examine every aspect of the cases before them, even if they are in active or former colleagues, as high as they stand, no matter how painful this may be for justice itself. Most importantly, however, we need to look into the possibility that, apart from the necessary and adequate political coordination that existed and possibly went beyond Mr Papagelopoulos, there would also be central legal coordination. Ladies and gentlemen, revealing the truth is perhaps the most cruel punishment of the guilty. In my view, however, it is not enough. The political world is not entitled to remain unreasonable, a mere viewer. The challenge is ahead of us. We must immediately take measures for the institutional armouring of the state to prevent similar behaviour that is affecting our democracy and to undermine the confidence of citizens in the institutions in the future. Only in this way will the functioning of the rule of law be strengthened and consolidated and the assumptions that are now considered unspeakable can be changed to an opportunity for the quality upgrading of our democracy. The Government of New Democracy and the Prime Minister personally have the will and the courage to do so, to reconstruct our democracy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u495	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the distributed findings of the ‘Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination on the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitris Papagelopoulou in the performance of his duties’ is finalised in order to accept or not the proposal to prosecute the former Deputy Minister of Justice. There will be a secret ballot on the committee's proposal, and separately on any act or omission, for which prosecution is sought, as defined and specified in the above committee's findings, and a decision to exercise or not to prosecute the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of Rule 157(3) and Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. The vote will take place at the successive turn of Members exclusively from the northern and southern door of the plenary Chamber in alphabetical order, who will leave the west door of plenary to the perimeter. In order to carry out the secret ballot, you will be distributed a large dossier containing the ballot, in which each reported act or omission for which the committee's proposal is requested to prosecute a white ballot and a smaller file in which the ballot will be placed. Apart from any alleged act or omission in respect of which prosecution is sought, the words ‘yes’, ‘no’, ‘no’, ‘no’ or ‘no’ shall be noted. The vote shall be expressed by cross under each of the above words. It is understood that any other symbol, ‘x’ or ‘n’, which does not include alphabetical characters, provided that it has been voted on in all the acts complained of on the list, shall be accepted. Members who wish to vote in favour of the proposal to prosecute the former Deputy Minister of State, Dimitrios Papaggioulou, will cross their preference under the word 'yes' and separately for any alleged act or omission. Members who wish to vote against the proposal to prosecute the former Deputy Minister of State, Dimitrios Papageolopoulou, will cross their preference under the word 'no' and separately for any alleged act or omission. Members who wish to vote'residences' will note with a cross of preference under the word'residences' and separately for any denounced act or omission. If there is no vote marked with a cross or with any other symbol, ‘x’ or ‘n’ in any of the three words ‘yes’, ‘no’, ‘no’, ‘no’ and in any act or omission, the ballot shall be deemed void. In accordance with paragraph 10 of Rule 73 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in the event of no agreement between the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast, the count shall be repeated. Although after this new count, the number of ballots is higher than the number of votes cast, they are destroyed before the sorting of the number of ballots equal to the number of additional ballots. The vote will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u496	After each Member's name has been delivered to the voter, where he will put the file with his vote in the ballot, and the Members on the vote will confirm by mentioning the name of each of the Members who is voting. Speaking on the list of MPs and voters will be carried out independently of an alphabetical order at the end of the speech of the Members' names on the list for reasons of the orderly functioning of the procedure. With regard to voting, the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Rule 70A provide that fellow Members or members of the Government who are on a mission of Parliament or the Government abroad may participate in the secret ballot. In this case, before the vote, their votes will be delivered to the Bureau in the small envelope which must be closed. This closed file is also enclosed in a larger second file which will also state the name of the Member of Parliament, the member of the Government who will vote by written vote. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. I would also like to inform you that two sealed documents have been sent to the Bureau by letter, in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure by fellow Members on a mission from the Government. This procedure under the Rules of Procedure means a valid vote with the expression of the will that exists in the sealed file. Ladies and gentlemen, please make sure that you have voted at your will and for the eight criminal offences, for which the chairman of the committee is asking for criminal prosecution. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u497	The House has agreed. On the list, MP Thesprotia Mr. Vassilios Yoyakas from New Democracy and MP Aetolokarnania Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement is called on the list. Members of Parliament Ioannina Maria - Alexandra Head from New Democracy and MP Halkidiki Mr.Apostolos Panas from the Change Movement are also called for as voters. The Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry will be in accordance with paragraph 6 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Athanasios Bourras, Mr Athanasios Bourras, Mr III Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and Members of the West Attica of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. I would ask the voters to come to the poll. I repeat that the Members on the vote will confirm by mentioning the name of each of the Members who vote. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u498	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters, which were sent to the Bureau for participation in the secret ballot, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] [[The letters referred to above are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Let the pages in. 524 and 525
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u499	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House here. The Ministers for Health, Finance, Development and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs and State tabled a draft law on 22-7-2020 entitled "Statutes to ensure access to quality health services - Establishment and Statute of the Quality Assurance Agency in Health SA. (O.D.P.A. S.E.) and other emergency provisions of the Ministry of Health'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u500	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House. A total of 180 Members voted. 180 ballots were found in the polls. I preyed: 177 ballots. Cancel: 3 ballots. White: none. In particular: First of all, regarding the numbering of the ballot in the act 'National Automation in Criminal Power Abuse (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 of the Criminal Code)': 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'THEI' voted no MEP. "PARON" voted no MP. Second, on number 2 when the ballot was numbered, the declarant act ‘Ministerial Automation (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 of the Criminal Code)’: 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'THEI' voted no MEP. "PARON" voted no MP. Thirdly, for number 3, when the ballot was numbered, a declarant act ‘National Succession of Occupation (Article 46(1) read in conjunction with Article 259 of the Criminal Code)’: 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'THEI' voted no MEP. "PARON" voted no MP. Fourthly, on number 4 in the case of the numbering of the ballot, complained of an act 'Failure of a Prosecutor on a continuing basis (Article 259 of the Criminal Code)': 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'THEI' voted no MEP. "PARON" voted no MP. Fifth, for the number 5 when the ballot was numbered, a denounced act "Extortion attempt (Article 385(1) (c) of the Old Criminal Code, Article 385(1) and (3) of the Criminal Code as applicable after the entry into force of the Law. Other information: 4619/2019)’ 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'THEI' voted no MEP. "PARON" voted no MP. Sixth, on number 6 when the ballot was numbered, the denounced act ‘Collection of a political official (Article 159(1) of the old and new Criminal Code)’: 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'THEI' voted no MEP. "PARON" voted no MP. Seventh, for the number 7 when the ballot was numbered, 'Court of Cassation (Rule 235)': 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'THEI' voted no MEP. "PARON" voted no MP. Eighth, for the purposes of number 8 when the ballot was numbered, denounced act ‘Criminal Organisation (Agreement) (Article 187(5) of the Old Criminal Code, paragraph 3 of the New Criminal Code)’: 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'THEI' voted no MEP. "PARON" voted no MP. Following the outcome of the secret ballot, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution (in particular paragraph 3), 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (in particular paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 157) and of the ‘Criminal Responsibility of the Ministers’ (in particular paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 6), as applicable, Parliament, accepting the conclusion and proposal to prosecute the Special Parliamentary Committee ‘for a preliminary examination of any offences committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagopoulos in the performance of its duties’, has decided to prosecute criminal offences as described in the above finding, which was registered in the minutes of the plenary session of 16 July 2020 and is an integral part of this decision, as well as in the minutes of today's sitting. In particular, the Plenary Session decides to prosecute the former Deputy Minister of State, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, for the following crimes: First, Moral Surgery in Abuse of Power (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 of the Criminal Code). Secondly, Moral Automation of Perpetual Power Abuse (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 Criminal Code). Third, Moral Surgery in Occupational Interference (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 259 of the Criminal Code). Fourth, Prosecutor's failure to fulfil obligations (Article 259 of the Criminal Code in its own right). Fifth, Extortion attempt (Article 385(1) C of the Old Criminal Code, Article 385(1) and 3 of the Criminal Code as applicable after the entry into force of the Law. Date of birth: 4619/2019. Sixth, donation of a political official (Article 159(1) of the old and new Criminal Code). Seventh, Correspondence of Staff (Art. 235 Criminal Code) Eighth, Criminal Organisation (Assembly) (Article 187(5) of the Old Criminal Code, paragraph 3 of the New Criminal Code). Ladies and gentlemen, after this result, I will inform you that under Articles 86(4) of the Constitution, 158(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Article 8 of Law 3126/2003 ‘Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers’, we shall proceed with the procedure laid down in the provisions establishing the Judicial Council. The President of Parliament will send a letter to the Minister of Justice, Mr Constantine Tsira, to send a list of members of the Ice Party, the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the Council of State, who are legally qualified, in order to put the five regularly and three alternate members of the Judicial Council together with his alternate. The above conclusion of the ‘Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination on the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papaggiopoulou in the performance of his duties’ shall be entered in the minutes and read as follows: http://www.hellenicparliament.gr/UserFiles/510129c4-d278-40e7-8009-e77fc230adef/ORG_pagenumber.pdf
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u501	I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u502	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-22-S1-commons.u503	With the agreement of the House at 23.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for Friday 24 July 2020 at 9.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, debate on topical and urgent questions.
