ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 3-6-2020, PNG's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday, 3 June 2020, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Regions of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House in writing of the debate on topical and urgent questions within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny today. The first question will be debated under No 5792/13-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'To withdraw the procedure for publishing the amendment to the Environmental Terms Approval Decision (APAP) of the "TITAN SA". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Here, Mr. Famele, you have the floor for the prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today is the global environment day and I think it is worth saying a few words about a day which should not be celebrated once a year, because it can become a memorial, but three hundred and sixty-five days a year. Today after the pandemic I think it is much clearer in front of all of us not only of the question, but also of the obligation, the next day of the pandemic to put the environment at the centre of the political agenda and the connection of protecting nature and biodiversity with the battle for climate neutrality to tackle the climate crisis to give a response to the issue of life on the planet, because the health of our citizens, the health of our society, the health of our economy is linked to the balance in biodiversity, environmental policy, but also to changing the habits of all of us and our producers and citizens. Unfortunately, at this time, Mr President, the government is implementing a completely opposite policy, a policy that has been characterised by all organisations as an environmental crime or an ecological coup. We, however, owe ourselves here to the Parliament of Greece, one of the countries which, from the beginning, advocated and approved here, the Paris Agreement on climate change, on the initiative of the SYRIZA Government, to implement or at least to support policies for the benefit of the environment and citizens. So we still have one question, which was unfortunately not answered by the Secretary of State, in writing, a question which, on 13 April, was tabled by Members of the Thessaloniki region of SYRIZA, concerning the issue of the licensing of the cement industry "TITAN" and in particular the public disclosure of the amendment of the environmental licence, as the President said on the question. This question was not answered on the basis of the parliamentary rule in writing, because we also needed documents expressing the Ministry's will and position. Here we have the following problem: In December 2019, the cement industry submitted a dossier to amend its licence. He wanted to introduce an additional fuel into an authorisation he has had since 2014 for specific waste alternative fuels. On 13 February - if I am not mistaken - the Ministry sends the file to the Region of Central Macedonia to be made public. It is not to be consulted on the basis of legislation, it is to be made public because it is an addition, it is an amendment of the level that only wants to be made public. But, Mr President, the whole debate is taking place while the pandemic is culminating, the collective bodies cannot meet, and the citizens cannot therefore be informed of the right to consultation and to publicize, which the law provides for, cannot be implemented. However, in addition to the conflicts with the fight for life and with legislation, there has been an agreement between the Ministry and the Cement Industry Union that imposes more stringently than European criteria, more information, transparency and consultation processes. So the reason why, Mr Secretary, we ask you is because there is a clear contradiction with the Ministry's voluntary agreement with the concrete industry. This agreement must be supported both by the Ministry and by the cement industry, but neither of the two institutions, spaces, structures does support it, neither the Region of Central Macedonia, but it opens up a debate that causes great reactions to society, rightly creates concern, creates unreliability, and ultimately the result will be neither credibility nor environmental protection to exist nor to be able to promote the cyclical economy for environmental protection. Whatever the intentions are, the result of the process is at the time of the battle of life that society learns that from the process of public disclosure without respecting it, some are trying to change the environmental conditions of the plant. You know in Western Thessaloniki there are serious environmental issues that if the state shows such a attitude of lack of democratic and environmental sensitivity we will not be able to resolve them and tensions will multiply. For this reason, all Members of the SYRIZA of Thessaloniki have tabled a proposal as soon as we have learned the publication of this issue, to withdraw the amendment procedure, to discuss a little how we will promote recycling, the source sorting to have alternative fuels that only have the irrecoverable part of the waste that is now not in Greece anywhere, nor the quality of the voluntary agreement, the quality of the alternative fuels provided for by the voluntary agreement exists and then see what is happening from 2014 at this plant. If what the company's people actually write is true, that since 2014 alternative fuels, which are licensed, have been used, the results should have been made public on the basis of the July agreement. So the Ministry should have taken care of the process to inform society first, to discuss what the situation is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Comrade, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u4	...what are the consequences, what is the environment in which this change is going to take place, and then, Minister, let's move on. This is what the voluntary agreement that I assume will continue to support, because it is an agreement signed by the previous government. But we would like your position on what we are doing now. Do we continue with a breach of the deal? Are we insulting society, causing concern, unreliability? Will the procedure be revoked to make public dialogue? I assume that both the district and the Technical Chamber and all the municipalities have advocated in our opinion and we would like the view of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that we agree on many points with Mr Famello. Firstly, we agree with the introductory remarks he made on the Environment Day, that it is an extremely important issue, that environmental protection should be celebrated and applied every day, and not once a year. I think we have the same point of view on that. I am also pleased that Mr Famellos agrees, firstly, that the burning of alternative waste is something for which, in particular, the Greek reality is offered and that this burning is prioritised by burial, and also that the voluntary agreement between the cement industries and the state, the Ministry of the Environment, must be applied. In all of this, we agree. So, what's the question? Let's start with the factory's GDP. The GDP of the plant is amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in the existing legislation. Publication is obviously a form in which all interested parties are informed. The fact that the krone period was preceded does not mean that no one can read or does not mean that the organs which consult, municipal councils, councils of municipalities and regions do not meet. Obviously throughout this period they met with teleconferencing, if not by living. So there is no question, and obviously life does not stop or all the other procedures, because this has happened to us - the huge crisis of course - from the coronary, as well as to many other things. This House was still working, wouldn't it? After all, the Regional Association of Municipalities and Communities has also come out - if I remember correctly - and the municipalities concerned have made a decision. They disagreed, but they were able and made the decision, that is, the institutions were working. To disagree, you have every right, of course, but to say that the institutions did not work, and that is why there was not sufficient publicity. I also assume that we fully agree with Mr Famello that burning alternatives is an extremely positive thing, firstly, because it reduces the use of fossil fuels and hence reduces the adverse effects of their extraction, secondly, because it reduces greenhouse gas emissions, since the consumption of fossil fuels is reduced again, and thirdly, because the recovery of energy from alternative fuels is maximised. I assume that we agree, because everything we have said so far is written in the agreement between the cement industries and the Ministry of the Environment. On the issue of GDP - I will stop here, I will close this, and then I will continue in my dentext - I read the following point from this agreement to which we have referred: The state must comply with the deadlines of No 4014/2011 for the environmental licensing of the plants which have submitted a request or which will submit a request for an amendment to the GMO for the development of alternative fuels. That is what the agreement says, that is what the Ministry of the Environment had agreed on by Mr Famelou, and that is what we are doing. Thank you very much. I'm going to go on in my dentistry for the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to start by making something clear. I never put words in your mouth, don't try to put on mine. We do not agree on too many things, Mr. Undersecretary. First of all, we need to make something clear. During the pandemic, there were measures limiting meetings, traffic, conventions, and the institutions could not meet and the citizens could not be informed. Don't say everything could be done properly. You - and we have supported it - have asked for many functions to be restricted so that there can be health protection. It is inconsistent with society to say that society could normally be informed and gathered and discussed and possibly protest or react when we have all asked for health rules. And we did well, and we asked for it. You are insulting both the science and the agony of the world. In addition, you refer to decisions by the regional association of municipalities, for example, which asks you to'strengthen the process of modification and to put the matter in consultation when normality comes'. Well, our question is that and it's simple: Since we SYRIZA MPs, society, the entire regional association of municipalities - who don't tell them all the major institutions of SYRIZA - agree to freeze the process, what will the Ministry do? You didn't answer us. The district chief once again made a similar statement, which he said supports the obligation of every investment to have the support of local society - Mr. Djijkostas, a candidate for a New Democracy president - and calls for this to be achieved by dialogue and such consultation has not taken place. So the question for you is: Will you freeze the amendment procedure? Are we going to have a substantial debate, as provided for in the voluntary agreement? And because I don't want you to put words in my mouth, what does the voluntary agreement say? It says that the use of alternative fuels as a waste management method only applies when all the previous processes have been exhausted. Because it also refers to non-useable materials, because these are secondary fuels. Also, for the procedures, I would like you to tell me - since you want to come and would like to see Mr Hatzidakis sending you here on matters that are not your responsibility - what is the rate of recovery, re-use and recycling of materials in Thessaloniki or Greece, which enables such secondary fuels to be produced which have not been recovered and usable in order not to lose recycling, not to lose sorting at source, not to lose the circular economy? Because that is the issue, Mr Secretary, that is what the voluntary agreement says. As I would also like you to tell me where this fuel is produced in Greece today. You're coming to answer a question, good. Do you know the environmental impact study submitted to indicate where these fuels come from? To tell the Greek society, which listens to us today. Do you know if such fuels are produced in Greece? Do you know that the standards have been tightened up because of the voluntary agreement and there is a specific procedure from a certified laboratory - and tell me what that is - that makes fuel analyses so that the cement industry can use it? Because that's why the voluntary deal has been made, Mr. Secretary. We have taken a step further towards the security of society, health and environmental safety. The question is, therefore, that everyone is concerned, the regional association of municipalities, Mr Kaitetzidis - a period of time, I think, Mr Mitsotakis had asked for candidate mayor of Thessaloniki, a dear colleague in self-government, Ignatios Kaitetzides - to ask for a freeze in the process, all the mayors of Western Macedonia. What will the ministry do? You'll tell me some things more specifically, Mr. Undersecretary. The voluntary agreement creates a considered framework and I therefore ask, with what the voluntary agreement says, from the 3-7 that was signed - and I was responsible for signing, indeed - for setting up a dialogue and social control committee for the Ministry? Because the deal says so, if you support it, you should have done it. Did he check and ensure that the cement industries have annual reports? Where is the annual report of TITAN? After signing the Agreement in July 2019, the agreement had to make an annual report in December. Do you have it in your hands? Is society in her hands? These are written in the voluntary agreement. Is the seven-air pollutant measurement platform? Because on our own initiative it was ensured that we count seven gas pollutants online and we will see all citizens and we here the measurements. That means environmental policy. Is that today, Mr. Economou? Because on this basis we shall proceed with the debate. Are there any measurements of dioxins and furans 12 times a year, as foreseen by the voluntary agreement? Because you said you were supporting her. I support her, too. So are there these measurements? Is there a study of dispersal of gaseous pollutants? Mr President, the agreement says there must be a society to see it. Is there information, involvement and full transparency of publicity about local society? How? When we were locked in the houses from the back door, so there would be unreliableness and anxiety? Next question, as the voluntary agreement says, were controls carried out at the secondary fuel production point? And I want you to tell me the simplest question: where are these produced, Mr. Economou? What factory are we supposed to go to check on? What is the environmental impact study of the ‘TITH’ cement industry, you know? Have you read it? And what lab testifies to this check? I want to tell you something that we did, because the Ministry didn't succeed. Following the protest by the SYRIZA MPs and the letter of suspension of the procedure, which took place on 26 March, the 'TITAN' page was opened, where it put the annual report. And after we asked the question, then - if I'm not mistaken - on 13 May it also opened the continuous information platform. We are particularly pleased that the policy of SYRIZA Members is being implemented, for the benefit of society, tools for information and transparency in environmental policy. But the question is, what are you doing, Mr. Economou? Not what we do. So it's just the question: Will you withdraw the procedure? Will you ask for a public debate, as the voluntary agreement says? Will recycling issues be opened in Thessaloniki? And tell me more clearly: Where are these materials produced? Do you know what the environmental impact study says? Because I do. And I'll take the third time to make it clear how much I know. And I want your answer, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u9	Third time you don't deserve him, Mr. Famele. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u10	Let me begin with what you mentioned about an insult to society for consultation in the Koroni period, etc. There is no insult to society. Throughout this period, the country was operating, not exactly in the same way, but everything was not stopped or frozen. Draft laws were passed in the House, investment went on. Life didn't stop in general. Those procedures have stopped, which were absolutely necessary to stop, so that we do not have the spread of the coronary. The rest worked, or we'd all be dead. So it's not about freezing. No one said we would freeze the environmental licensing procedures during the coronary period. Other procedures went ahead too. Would we stop this particular one in particular? After all, I've answered you again. The mere fact that the municipalities and municipal councils and the regional union have come up with a communication means that they have been informed and able to work and meet and draw these conclusions. So it is funny to discuss the obligation to freeze this thing when a number of other similar and more serious issues were working and moving forward. You said I put words in your mouth. I don't put words in your mouth. I read this agreement, which you have signed, and I therefore think you support them too. The European Commission says 'in the guiding directive...' and continues 'energy from waste can play an important role in transition to a circular economy - in transition - especially in countries with a high burial rate such as Greece'. That's what he says. He doesn't say anywhere it's the last method used in hierarchical terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u11	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u12	The last method used hierarchically, the worst is burial and, therefore, burning, that is, that - I say, concisely burning it, not to mention the full name - is higher than burial. It replaces burial in this particular case, so it is absolutely compatible with the European Union directives and with what you have signed and concluded. On the second point, I replied to you beforehand that the agreement, which you support - and I understand it, is still in agreement with this agreement - is that the procedures laid down in environmental licensing legislation must go ahead without hindrance. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u13	Without consultation, without transparency?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u14	The procedures provided for in the legislation, these procedures have now proceeded. Thirdly, let us come to the agreement itself. You said that at the end of 2019 there should be an annual report and the report on what has been done over the last four years, right? I'm at least reading it here in your question. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] When did this deal happen? 3-7-2019. I have been amazed, many times I have come to Parliament to answer questions from SYRIZA Members about legislation, agreements, actions by the previous government, which took place in July 2019. Then you remembered everything! You couldn't have made this deal a year ago, half a year ago, two months ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u15	Would your obligations change? They'd be the same today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u16	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u17	Obviously you could, but you didn't. Why? I don't know. Did you think that this is how you would win the elections or help the New Democracy win the elections, considering that this is an unpopular choice and action? In any case, it is strange that everything happened in July 2019 and as in other cases, you are coming and you are leaving us now because what happened in July 2019 - has not yet been closed - it has not been implemented as a whole. Obviously, what happened in July 2019 to be implemented must be given sufficient time because it includes too many actions. Several of these actions have been implemented, are in the process and the rest will be implemented with the Timing which is possible in any case. I'm ending up with this. I won't be late. I'm sorry, I got away in time too. I shall briefly refer to the two deadlines you have said. When you bring this agreement in July 2019, when do you expect the first year report to take place? Shouldn't it be at least a year since, logically, a year and a half? As soon as it took place in mid 2019, until it was implemented, to mobilise all things, reasonable for a reasonable man is at the end of 2020, which will have passed a normal time, to ask for the annual report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u18	And because when SYRIZA MPs reacted...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u19	What is really strange and funny, and there is a provision for a second four-year report. Then why did the report be asked for four years? First of all, the agreement does not say anywhere that the report is retroactive. He doesn't say it anywhere. If you want it to be retrospective, you should put it on. Secondly, if he says so - that is the spirit, it is not the essence - you should have taken care of it at the time, since it has been working since 2014, if I remember correctly, to ask for a report on what happened at that time, so for Volos. So you come in and ask for things you really legislated about at the last minute and then you ask us for the change about what you legislated and it's wrong, it's wrong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u20	Before moving on to the next question, let me tell the House the questions which will not be discussed. The fifth, with No. 754/1-6-2020 top-level question for the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Digital Governance, on the subject: "Direct removal of an antenna of mobile telephony within the boundaries of the municipalities of Peristeri and Iliou", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The second question under number 762/1-6-2020 of the second question by Hercules Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Supporting television stations and media in the region', will not be discussed due to lack of competence. Finally, the second question under number 745-27-2020 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary Florins of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theopistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "A state aid for Aegean without guarantees for the Greek State", will not be discussed with the Minister and MP. So we move on to the first with number 748/29-5-2020 a top-level question for the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens, Nea Demetrios Kourides, to the Minister of Finance, on 'Effective support for 'problems', in accordance with Regulation No 615/2014 (OJ L 187/26-6/2014), business'. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skakakis, will answer. Mr. Courides, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to begin by expressing what is now a common belief, as much as I regard as a universal assessment of the effectiveness of the work of the financial officer in dealing with this very difficult situation that has arisen from the horn pandemic. However, with my timely question I would like to point out and ask what is going to happen to a very serious problem, if not all, many Greek businesses, perhaps the majority of them, according to some studies. This is about the various tools we have announced to support, in the context of the withdrawal of state aid, now that Europe is awakening and there is the optimism of support for productive Greece. The 2014 European Regulation prohibits the use of European funds for support when an undertaking is problematic, in accordance with the definition given by the Regulation itself. The criticisms that one can make about the Rules of Procedure are many. He's anachronistic, he's arbitrary. What is problematic and what is not, has to do with a number of things. If the company has made investments with leasing, it has increased its credit obligations and thus becomes problematic. It's about international accounting standards. It still has to do - and here it is the completely outrageous - with the fact that the state has not paid its obligations to businesses, which have had to register uncertainties, become problematic in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, while they are all viable, viable and viable with all the banking criteria, informing the government and the banks and are out of any support. So because this is a very serious issue and it is about the future of productive Greece, I would like to ask you, firstly, whether there are any thoughts of a broad interpretation of this restrictive regulation. Secondly, can we look forward to a revision of the Rules of Procedure? Thirdly, if, in any case, nothing is done at European level, can we look forward to using national funds to support all these productive enterprises, which are at risk of being out of protection in the midst of this destructive pandemic and the great recession that we are going to experience in 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Dogfish, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Mr Colleague, this is indeed a serious problem. The State Aid Regulation and, more generally, the question of State aid is a difficult story in Greece. Even in the case of aid which we considered to be quite self-evident, such as aid for firefighting granted about ten years ago, we have decisions from the committee calling for a return not to those who did not fulfil the obligations, since they had received state guarantees, but those who fulfilled and fulfilled their obligations. There are actions brought by Greek companies against other Greek companies that cause these consequences. And, of course, even the new regulation, adopted on the occasion of COVID -19, which had increased - and has increased de minimis limits, has for Greece the extremely unfavourable point - which also refers to the old regulation on equity, which should be at least 50% of the initial capital, which many Greek companies cannot achieve without new capital aid because of the ten-year crisis which we have all lived through. This is a problem that is most relevant to our potential in Europe. Of course, Greece's negotiating potential in Europe on this issue is not unlimited. We are one in twenty-eight and there is both the European Parliament and the other governments. It is intended to have a better de minimis in the coming years. And, perhaps, a solution to the problem will be to make it easier for businesses not with the de minimis of the past and present, but by giving them, at this juncture, the opportunity to be sure that they will receive the de minimis in the years to come so that they can - at least as far as returns are concerned - respond. It's not an easy problem. And the deposit we put back, because we knew it was a tool that, at least, within the limits of the classic de minimis, 200,000, could work. We call for a very small bureaucratic procedure - responsible statements - to give the money there. However, it is not a problem that can be solved through national resources, because national resources, as you know, have exactly the same attitude as the NRP resources since someone is refugees. This has happened - I remind you - and in the case of the guarantees given to businesses in 2007 with firefighting, and now they are being called upon to return them. We will try in Europe. We'll look for creative ways here in Greece. But it is not an easy problem to solve and I do not want to give any false hope to businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Mr. Courides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister, for both courage and sincerity. I would ask you, as a minimum, to say - so that we do not create a confusion in productive Greece - that we are dealing first with sustainable businesses. Because I have heard the President of the new Development Bank, Mrs Hatzietro, in all respectfulness, say that 'We will not support the deaf'. I would therefore like to emphasise the fact that the companies that survived the ten-year crisis are the heroes of Greece. It is, in fact, the heroes - mostly - of Greece, because they survived the storm of 2010-2011 and the second storm that hit them in 2015 without banks. And they are in 2020 in a situation where no other European country is. Consequently, if there is a country that is entitled to an exemption, this is Greece. We are not dealing with unsustainable operations. We are not dealing with companies that do not pay or serve their loans or do not contribute to public taxes and insurance contributions. That's all there is. It is simply because the own funds have fallen under a certain number, become problematic and cannot. I believe that, as a minimum, the public should in its obligations vis-à-vis these undertakings, give them the liquidity that deprives them and repays his obligations. I am referring specifically to the issue - and we have debated it in private - of the aid we had since 2010 - of 12% in regions of the country which have been extremely sensitive, such as Thrace, regions that have not received these subsidies. They have written these debts as precarious, that is, they have become problematic because of the state that has not repaid them, and now they have not collected either the original public debts, nor these problematic support instruments, because they have become problematic because of the state. I would ask you to look at this issue very carefully and very sensitively, because jobs are being threatened, thousands of workers are being threatened throughout the country. A productive tissue, which, after suffering all that has been done, will be a shame now, while hope for a better future in 2021, cannot reach the source of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. Look, and 12% falls under the same perimeter of State aid. Hence, he stopped sometime. And that is the real difficulty we have. Perhaps we should look for more tools. I've been thinking about it since we talked about it out of my mind. Perhaps we should also encourage taxly the introduction of new capital into our businesses or mergers between companies, which are not at all easy with the present conditions and tax and licensing. And as far as business is concerned, I think, if you like, that the vast majority of businesses at the end of 2019, under whatever conditions you've seen, were absolutely viable. This regulation also applies in Greece incorrectly, because the Rules of Procedure have not taken into account what may happen after a long period of crisis. That should therefore be taken into account in normal terms. I will try to tell you differently: I do not know if you know that among the continents, in the maritime areas where there is a very long depth and that the tectonic plates are joined, there are some over-batteries living under km of pressure and at a temperature of more than a hundred and twenty degrees and surviving these over-bakers. The Greek companies are like such superbasics that went through all this and survive today also from COVID -19. In other words, ten years have passed the biggest recession, and now it is the worst recession. Therefore, we must give a real fight with all the tools we have to keep them alive. You should know that the Treasury really believes that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, 'Strengthening the School and other provisions'. We continue with the first under number 749/29-5-2020 on the second question of the Member of the Republic of New Democracy, Christos Boukorous, on the subject: 'Measures to support trade without financial costs'. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following your answer to my colleague's previous question, I could not avoid the thought of how you are a genuine liberal politician calling from history and developments to take all the protective measures necessary to rescue what we can rescue from this unprecedented pandemic and after a ten-year crisis. Everything's fluid, so everything's flowing. And indeed new diseases with old medicines are rarely treated and when this happens, it is partly done. We want new tools, as you said before, we need medicines to deal with this unprecedented crisis. I see there's work going on. For example, you have rightly legislated to extend the payment of the cheques for seventy-five days on 30 March. Of course, it is a measure that has been exploited by many, and those who had to pay and those who did not have to pay and created some malfunctions on the market, but the objective was achieved. Those who were in a weakness because of the pandemic were protected by your own decisions. So, in addition to today's question, I would ask you to take all the necessary decisions to protect a piece of commerce and entrepreneurship that it had issued expiry cheques from 10 to 30 March with the extension of the announcement to TIERISIA by at least seventy-five days and for them. For as we all know the announcement of an unpaid check today happens in thirty days. And why am I asking for this, Minister? The coronary turbulence on the market started in early March. Our Government is right, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis closed schools on March 11th. On 13 March the focus was closed and at the end on 17 March the shops were closed. The commercial, professional and entrepreneurial world had probably issued some checks at the beginning of the year and believed that since it has previously covered all other needs in the last few days it will work to cover its check. That's the way it happens otherwise there's no need for checks. Anyone who has to pay cash doesn't need a check. These people were therefore found to be in a vacuum between measures and legislation. I would like to ask you to see the extension of the announcement of these cheques because we have enough red loans, we have a lot of people in TIERSIA and it does not offer anything to the economy to add to other people in TIERISIA who, after all, are not responsible for the fact that their shops have been closed for such a long time. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u31	It's a really difficult issue because, as you know, for every one who issues a check, there's also the receiver of the check that's thrown at the bank, the bearer. So when you benefit from one correspondingly you hurt the other. That is why we need to move very carefully and it is a delicate balance between the two sides. As far as the requirements of this period after 11 March were concerned, we actually legislated - and there was also my own involvement in this initiative - since 30 March. This gives about 20 days compared with the closure of shops. I understand that there may have been a special day in the last ten days since 20 - because if you want I cannot justify someone who does not pay the check on 12 March because he closed his shop at 11. This cannot be justified - but I understand that someone who has a closed shop ten days and loses the turnover of ten days can indeed be in a bad position without his own responsibility. We therefore intend to return to this matter directly for a party which is what you are talking about at this time. We haven't come up with time yet. We will try to be fair to people. As we intend to see and what will happen in some tourist regions in particular. Your colleague, Mrs Iatrido, has raised this question very strongly with regard to the Dodecanese, where the time at issue is not until 31 May, which was the case, but after 31 May in particular with regard to companies which are absolutely or very intensely seasonal. It is something we are studying and I hope that next week or perhaps next week we will be able to announce an initiative covering both cases and the ones you mentioned, Mr Papoutsis, and the second one. It is not easy, I repeat, but we realise that there must not be businesses that can survive to be destroyed because they will not have access to the banking system at the very time they need to have access to it, to be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u32	Mr Bukkokouros has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u33	Minister, I am pleased that my question is on the occasion of making public your thoughts on this issue on both occasions, and on 10 March to 30 March, but also on our hoteliers in many tourist areas after 30 May. We really must not black out businesses, which, now that they are opening up again, are able to stand on their feet because they have had the misfortune because the history of the pandemic has happened. As for the period from March I would say that you will see it with a wide range of spirits from 10 to 30 March. Because, Minister, I remind you, but you know it better than I do, market turbulence and uncertainty had begun since the beginning of March strongly in our country and we have all waited for the measures so that we have a precipitation, as the evidence says, in those days. I am glad, however, that you are also seeing these issues of entrepreneurship, trade and free trade which may not be the majority. You know, most checks 10, 11, 12, 15 March were paid. A few of them weren't paid. In the next few days, the checks began not to be paid because the businessmen and merchants who tell you "when will we open up, what will be done, keep some money for the family". The aid measures had not been announced. I therefore understand that you are fully concerned with this issue. And I would like to thank you for the understanding and announcement that next week we may also have government decisions on this matter. You will allow me without seeking an answer to ask you to see another issue, the rest of the latest SYRIZA development law. Minister, because I know you are very interested in entrepreneurship, you will certainly know what has happened. Investments by small and medium-sized enterprises and even larger firms, which have no unfavourable information at all, have been completed and the State is unable to credit them with the tax exemptions provided for in the previous Act, so that they are exposed to the principles of public revenue collection, fines, which will, of course, be abolished in the coming period. However, since many of these companies are cooperating with foreign enterprises they show an unfavourable picture and are extroverted, exporting enterprises. I do not want any response to this issue unless you wish to do so. I put it here in public without any intention of surprise. Following Mr Cairides' question, this is a comment. Let's also see this issue, Minister, which I know is of concern to you, and you're preparing some JAPDs. We know all about this. If you want press releases, they'll be transmitted to the media. However, we expect your decision on these cheques for both the tourist regions and the small and medium-sized trade so that we do not lead to the death of the merchant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. The issue of development law, as you know, is at the Ministry of Development. I would remind you that this House has voted for an increase in the public investment budget very importantly, from 750 million to 1 billion. We have therefore given room for budget to deal with these problems as quickly as possible. We have also speeded up the payment of VAT refunds to exporting enterprises too. The average time has now gone to two months and is left only the part where some checks are carried out, i.e. the sample part of the checks that has a little slower payback and may also be seen. More generally, we will try to use all the liquidity tools we have to use within the framework of budgetary logic and without ruining the culture of behaviour that we have shaped in recent years. The crisis has had a lot of bad things, but it has mainly kept those who were consistent and careful - I mean the previous crisis - and we would not like this consistency and attention to break it down with the measures we are taking. That is why we are trying to be as personalised as possible to measures and to add solutions to problems that arise in the process. That is why we are keeping resources available to the extent that we can solve problems. I remind you of the story - Constantine Mitsotakis always said it in this Chamber - the good Samaritan we remember, not because he was good, but because he also had money to be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u36	We continue with the third with the number 755/1-6-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Voice of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Government Day for workers in long-term employment without parallel employment". The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis, will answer. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are in a phase of a pandemic recession. The fact is that the government has taken action on our affected categories of fellow citizens. Indeed, in many of the measures you have taken, and in our own proposals of opposition, you have said so yourself - and this is very important because several categories of affected fellow citizens have been met. Unfortunately, there is one exception - I do not know why - and it concerns those who are in long-term employment. They are the ones who are not employed anywhere, they are permanently preoccupied, they have found no other job, they have found nothing. These men remained at God’s mercy, there was no provision in the measures taken by the government to strengthen these people. I mention, for example, the category of workers and more work in the 'EUROPE' distribution agency, who still remain in this way and have not been provided for their help. Minister, there is also a category of workers who were on employment and whose company went bankrupt and who were not able to obtain legal recognition of their claims. They have announced their claims to the trade union, as required and provided for by the law, but the EPC does not recognise insurance cover beyond five months if there is no judicial decision. However, the other similar workers, their colleagues, who had legal decisions, were granted greater insurance cover. After all, in your two data, I ask you: for these long-term job-seekers, does the government intend to take some care and strengthen them? Secondly, for those in employment who are not able to make a judicial decision and are the five-month period of coverage by the ECA, does the Government intend to give another step in order to obtain further cover, although their colleagues have? That is what I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u38	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I must begin by thanking my colleague Mr Mulkiotis for two reasons: firstly, because he gives me this opportunity at a critical time, because we are entering the second time perimeter of the new measures that we have taken as a government to protect businesses and workers at the stage and on the basis of the relaunching of our economy as a whole. Secondly, because it accepts in its position that the government has indeed made decisions to cover the people of work, brave decisions and has spread the protection net to too many thousands of workers so far. At the same time, I should like to confirm to my colleague, Mr Mulkiotis, that this government, Mr Mulkiotis, as you rightly said, knows and listens to and take into account the positions of the other parties. Indeed, many of the ideas and opinions you have put forward have been taken into account both by the Ministry of Labour and by the Government as a whole, because that is democracy, it is political production, production of positions and proposals, and that is why we are here. I would therefore like to see this specific question which you are asking me to answer: on the one hand, the economic crisis which our country has experienced in recent years has resulted in the inability of many companies to pay the wages of their employees in good time. On the other hand, workers are, unfortunately, unpaid for long periods of time, unable to meet day-to-day financial obligations and seek ways through labour legislation to secure their rights, resort to the so-called "working obligation". Affixing to work finds a legal basis for Articles 325, 329 and 349 of the Civil Code. Worker's right to refuse employment until the employer fulfils the obligation imposed upon him by the employment relationship and on which he has become overtime. This ensures the employee's claim to the employer for the payment of any late payment of salaries, allowances, holidays, overtime, pay for the overtime. There is therefore a measure to protect the worker, which ensures that he receives the salary under any circumstances, whether or not the undertaking or the employer is involved. As regards the granting of insurance capacity to workers who are in long-term employment, we know that according to the opinion of the Legal Council of the State during the employment commitment, the employee's claim is maintained on his wages and remains the active insurance relationship between him and him who continues to operate under the same conditions and with all the consequences from the point of view of paying contributions that would apply as if the worker normally provided his work. If the employment relationship is lawful, insurance continues, but it is not beyond the reasonable length of time from which remuneration is due, which cannot exceed, as you have said, five months, unless a judgment is put forward contrary to the principle of non-declaration of the employment relationship. In any case, for the provision of health care insurance, the above workers are covered by the general legislative framework, provided that they fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 37 of Law No4670/2020 of the last insurance reform. For those who do not fulfil the conditions for granting insurance for health care benefits, the right to free access to the public health structures of the country for nursing and medical care shall be granted, in accordance with Article 33 of Law No.4368/2016 and No. MUL 25132 NG/908 on health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups. There is also a special provision in the current legislative framework for adhesion workers who have no other parallel employment during the period of service. According to Ministerial Decision No 30659/239/1089 of the Ministry of Labour and Article 20 of Law No 1836/1989, workers exercising the right to affiliate and who have been unemployed for three months after having completed at least sixty days of work in the preceding year shall be entitled to an employment allowance. They are therefore entitled to a job allowance, provided that they do not fulfil the conditions of the regular unemployment benefit provided for in Article 4 and 5 of Law 1545/1985. Therefore, adjuvant workers, whether they receive the special allowance or the regular unemployment benefit, as specified by the relevant GDP cycle. In my dentistry I shall mention in detail all the measures that we have taken in order to protect from those workers in a work-sharing situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, indeed the issues relating to impending and covering in accordance with Article 325 of the Civil Code and the IKA circular are as you say. That's true. But the five-month period applies. The question here is: Where cannot be recognised is a pretext of employment and because of bankruptcy there cannot be a judicial decision to stop the fight against it? In fact, these workers only make announcements in the middle of their claims. Because these workers don't have the cover over five months. I am referring to those who are in employment in this way. There, there is an empty one, which the Citizens' Counsel - your services know, but they refuse to apply - has given a different opinion in relation to the opinion you call for for the five-month period. That is the issue. The question, however, concerning the first part of my question, Mr Minister, concerns those who are in a long-term employment relationship. And I am referring, for example, to the workers at the Europa Press Distribution Agency. These are many years in a job pretext with judicial involvement and controversy. However, during this period when the government provided some assistance as affected civil groups, they did not receive any welfare. My question - and I would like you to see it and answer it to us - is this: Does the government intend to support this accusation of the affected people, who have a serious issue? These people are always on the pretext. It's not a work premise they're working on someone else's employer. In fact, after our own question, a specific decision was made on 30 April 2020. Indeed, this charge has been covered. It's a fact. We have asked for it, and you have indeed accepted it. So we ask you to accept today that for those who are in a long-term pretext and who are slavery to God's fate, and they cannot face any essential need that they have - and must - the Ministry to provide in particular in the face of the pandemic. They have no choice, Minister. It is a deficit, a gap for which no provision has been taken so far. That's what I'm asking you to say today about these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u42	Good. Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I'll answer directly without spins and stereotypes. For the long-term workers in employment, yes, we'll look into it. Hold this, Mr. Comrade. We will look into this at the Ministry of Labour. But I am given the opportunity to make a recapitulation and to update all that has been done in the past period and policies that we are thinking of developing in the future. The government as a whole has reacted quickly, reflexingly, to the protection of human life as a whole. No one can question that. In particular, as Ministry of Labour we have taken immediate decisions and implemented emergency and necessary measures to protect the labour market from the adverse effects of the health crisis on the national economy. With the introduction of the special clause on the maintenance of existing jobs, we have probably prevented a large wave of redundancies. This is illustrated by the elements of the "ERGAN" of March, April and May, in the first time perimeter that the crisis hit the labour market and the economy. With the special purpose compensation we have strengthened the income of the workers and breathed the businesses. In particular, we paid EUR 800 special compensation to six thousand sixty-six employees whose contract of employment was suspended. Also, a hundred and eighty - one thousand ninety free professionals and scientists received the compensation of 600 euros. We have also received special attention to the particular socially sensitive group of the unemployed. We paid a 400 euro allowance in sixty-eight thousand long-term unemployed and prolonged the unemployment benefits which expired in the first quarter of 2020 for about two hundred and twenty thousand unemployed. We spread the protection net to many other special categories of workers, such as builders, artists, tour guides, tourist attendants, workers on Mount Athos, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. One category of them is work-sharing workers. In particular, according to the Circular No 170-78/505 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the beneficiaries of the EUR 800 compensation are workers in employment, since during this period they are employed under a contract of dependent employment in another employer undertaking and their contract has been suspended, as you have said. In accordance with Article 7 of the Act of Legislative Act of 20 March 2020, as applicable, special attention has been paid to the people affected by the health and economic crisis in the koruna, through the two-month extension of the duration of the regular unemployment subsidy for those beneficiaries who benefited from the subsidy in the first quarter of 2020, without exception and the regular unemployment subsidy, following the exercise of the right of preservation. In conclusion, all workers in work-subscribed parallel to an undertaking affected by the CAR received the special purpose compensation for the duration of the suspension of their employment contracts. Those who were employed on a temporary basis and who received either the special allowance or the standard unemployment benefit benefit were entitled to this extension by two months. We are vigilantly respecting labour legislation and we support workers in practice and not in words. At the heart of our policy, Mr Mulkiotis - I have said it before and I will repeat it - it was and remains the worker. Especially since the pandemic broke out, we have thrown all our powers, as much forces as we have and weapons at policy level to support the worker, maintain jobs and protect him at the same time. I would like to say to you that for the next period, neither will we remain inactive nor with a cross-checked hand, utilizing the tools which, as we all know, are coming on behalf of the European Union. We will use them as much as possible. Nothing stops here. We are ready to adapt our policies for even more protection for workers and the maintenance of jobs that, in 2020, the labour market will be shaken. So we're here, next to each other. We are constantly adapting our policy with one single aim, supporting the workers, the weak social groups, and where there are gaps to heal them and where there are open wounds to reduce the intensity and pain created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u44	Good. The last three topical questions are the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. We continue with the fourth with the number 757/1-6-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The definition of examination centres away from the place of residence of the regional candidates". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. The question I raise to you, or indeed to the extent that they put together students, parents and teachers, is very critical and extremely urgent. It concerns the time-limit for defining the centres of examination away from the place of residence of the regional candidates participating in the pan-Hellenic examinations, which is particularly acute in these circumstances because of the pandemic. The problem concerns students who are forced to go to Athens and Thessaloniki to study in special courses, free and linear design, foreign languages and four musical lessons. It also concerns those wishing to participate in the TECA, military and police schools, the Fire Academy and the Port Authority. Thirdly, it concerns students from the provincial PAPALs who are forced to move to the urban centers of their region, such as in Crete from Mesara to Heraklion, or even to move redundancies to an island, such as from Symi to Rhodes or from Patmos to Leros and many other islands, instead of being examined at their school. Fourthly, it concerns naturally impossible students, such as those from Lemnos who move to Lesvos, especially those of the provincial PESA even from large islands, such as Kefalonia, which are intended to move them to Patras. Last year four exam centres of the ten that operated in Attica to examine the linear and free project were intended exclusively for the examination of hundreds of students in southern Greece and Crete. According to the figures for the school year 2019-2020, some four hundred students of Crete will be required to go to Athens to be examined in the pan-Hellenic exams. This is unequal, clear and devastating, and particularly this year's dangerous treatment against the students in the region, especially the islands and the remote regions. Do you really mean equal treatment of citizens, the need to continuously improve the quality of the educational work provided for the proper functioning of the educational process? These are the best educational practices and methods to upgrade school. That is what you are talking about in the draft law on education under discussion. It's an excess of hypocrisy, really! And you have to realise that these situations in a pandemic time jeopardize students and their families, with hundreds of parents and students conspiring outside the Athens and Thessaloniki Examination Centres. There's no coronary? Where are the health protocols and ministerial decisions on measures to deal with the pandemic that you advertise? In addition, they are costly burdened with travel costs, worsen the examination conditions and shape unequal conditions, especially in the current difficult health and economic conditions, which will deter a large number of candidates from participating in examinations. We're asking for an end to this suffering right now. And we ask you: What measures will you take to organise the examination of the specific courses at local level, to take measures to involve regional students in the introduction tests at TEFA, at military, police schools, the Fire Academy and the Port Authority? We call for the possibility for rural PSA students to take examinations in schools, as well as for naturally impossible in special examination centres in areas where they are studying on equal terms, as are the other pupils. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u46	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I am here to reply on behalf of the Minister, Mr Kerameos, on the issue of pan-Hellenic examinations and the particular issue you are raising today, Mr Synergyakis. Like you said, it's critical, it's timeless. To discuss Friday, June 5, about the pan-Hellenics starting in a few days' time and through the bill, I do so with great pleasure. We are, however, talking about an issue that we would have to deal with in previous years, which is likely to be of concern to us next. But, with great pleasure to discuss the particular circumstances, which exist, and many times they also impose this movement that I wish there were not. Indeed, it would be ideal for no special movement to be necessary in any examination. But there are data. So let's go see what the data are. There is the fact that, in some cases, we are talking about special courses, the free, linear design as you have said, and the music courses, which can only be examined in an appropriate environment and by appropriate means. Or, as in the case of the naturally impossible pupils you mention, there is a need for more specific educational support for their examination process. Most importantly, however, there needs to be a sufficient number of qualified staff in the committees, and you know that well anyway, in order to carry out the examination, especially in the PES, which you mentioned in the second part of the question. And further moves across Greece I think that they would perhaps create more problems in the overall examination process than they would probably solve, without in any way impairing the importance of being able to give close to the place where one lives. There is a general principle in the Ministry of Education and it was in time. The mission of the Ministry is to ensure the means it has and claims, in general the best possible access for all children to the examination process, by taking all the support measures of the experts, for special courses and special categories, as well as the full management of the examination centres. Additional measures have already been taken for the categories you refer to and fall within our competence. Some of the things you're referring to don't fall within our competence. You talked about the tests in police, military and other schools, but I imagine you're putting the whole frame of the exam. I just have a responsibility to answer for some of them. As the provision for additional examination centres has been obtained, for more members of the Committees of Inquiry, for example the TECs. Especially for the examinations for the introduction to TEFAs, I will give you an important element for the health examination and practical testing of candidates set up committees throughout Greece. Specifically in addition to Athens and Thessaloniki, health committees will be run by Achaias, Arcadias, Heraklion, Evros, Ioannina, Kavala, Kozani, Larissa and Trikalons. I shall continue in my second language, Mr President, the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u48	As you wish. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u49	Mrs. Minister, you argue that the pan-Hellenic examinations are taking place in Athens and Thessaloniki, and indeed you tell us that 5 of June and 15 of the exams begin, you can't get any extra measures. That's how I figured it out. That's the responsibility of the Ministry. It is not the responsibility of either the pupils, the parents or the teachers. And we are very sorry that in these critical circumstances the Ministry and the Government show a discrepancy, ignoring a number of documents of communications and decisions of bodies and even of officials rejecting one of these perforated arguments that you are telling us. Let me say that it is an inhuman attitude, not only of your Ministry and of your Government, but over time of all governments, much more now under these circumstances. In fact, I will submit these documents to the Minutes so that we can know. We are talking about interventions by the parents and the educational movement, by SAGME, the Federation of Parents of Crete, Associations and Associations of Parents of Crete, from the rest of Greece, of ELME Crete and Dodecanese, of the Association of Educational Visual Courses, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Parents of Music and Arts. Is everyone wrong? Is it overrun? They don't understand exactly how the problem needs to be tackled and only the Ministry knows? There are resolutions and texts with hundreds of signatures. There is a study of a working group of teachers from Chania with a long experience in teaching special courses, conducting and organizing the examinations. They express their opposition and allow me, they are drawn up unanimously with the request to examine the specific courses at local level by the Heads of Education of Crete, by the Regional Directorate of Crete. There is a decision of the Plenary Assembly of Education Project Coordinators, the Regional Education Planning Centre. Everyone is in complete contrast with the Ministry's regular tactics on this matter. So when the coordinating and monitoring body itself of the implementation of primary and secondary education policy states the need to put an end to the unjust and unequal tactics of the Ministry that exterminates children and which has no educational background, then there is a subject and you are exposed. You show a rigid, class person at the expense of children and people's families and even vulnerable social groups. Here you are not applying the 2002 ministerial decision, which says that depending on the number of candidates in each special course, other cities in Greece can also be designated. You're telling us there's no qualified training personnel. Are you serious? There are too many specialists. Especially in Crete I know there are too many specialists. You just know it's costing and you don't want to bear that cost. They are the so-called budgetary things you tell us. In other words, in our view, you should see the number of candidates per county and region and set up special courses where necessary and you do not do so. Why? Have you considered what it means to these students and escorts from the islands? It is not enough for the inquisitive gulgotha, you tell them that they have to suffer the consequences of their choices with incredible high travel costs - ships, planes, trains, buses, diets, stays in hotels, which exceeds the monthly income of many people's families - and given the deterioration of the economic situation by unpopular policies yours, the previous ones. Especially now in Crete or other islands because of tourism and the situation that has occurred in him, it is impossible for these children to participate in the pan-Hellenic exams. Students will be forced to travel on their own or not to take part in the examinations due to these economic difficulties. For students or families, belonging to vulnerable groups, does the blackmail dilemma "to go to the tests or to protect our own health, our families now because of the pandemic?" There is no reason for scientific, pedagogical, social or even economic reasons to justify the establishment of the respective examination centres and are intended to examine these hundreds of children in Athens and Thessaloniki. So - and I conclude, Mr President - we ask you to take note of the 2002 ministerial decision, the number of students per county and periphery, which shows that hundreds of students are involved in the examinations and have been notified to the relevant departments in time, the recommendations of the relevant local and regional directorates - I told you - responsible statements by parents who say they belong to vulnerable groups. There is a ministerial decision from 29-5-2020, in force since 1 June 2020, which provides for measures to protect the health of workers at the central offices of the Ministry of Education. Why should this not apply to children and parents taking part in such examinations? There are many other issues to which - in any case - you are obliged to do so, and you are accountable to the people's families, who are now suffering because of this anti-Fraud and anti-Fraud policy. Take a position, then, immediately, to solve this problem to stop this suffering that really face parents and students! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u50	Good. Here, Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u51	Mr Synthykis, I'm sorry, but I'm going to completely reject the argument of the Ministry or the government in question. I will really listen with great interest and really listen with great interest to all these requests from the many bodies you have mentioned. I am also here to present a situation that has worked over the past few years, our children were giving the tests with the good things they were going through, which I hope this year will be the case. So it is also good for their psychology - if you like - to influence at the moment in front of this great project, at the same time realising all the elements that we have before us that will lead to a success of the pan-Hellenic examinations and general and special courses. So before we look at the PSA candidates in the pan-Hellenic examinations, which are being examined in different specialities, more than twenty-five, with a small number of candidates in each speciality, where the necessary number of examiners is often ensured. So we're talking about realism, about realism, about real data that I gave you before. Therefore, in some cases where it is foreseen, there is a need to move the candidates, you know very well that there is also the possibility of compensation, because you have spoken of all these costs. I understand it, it is a cost at the moment for the family to carry the child, which is likely to be carried alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u52	Cover the cost! Why don't you cover it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u53	But, I repeat, there is also the possibility of covering costs, compensation, and you know that. You raised the very important issue - if you wish, Mr Syntagakis, we will see you then - that hygiene measures are respected. Already for the officials of the Ministry of Education, but in general, as you can see, health measures are very carefully, reliably respected at all schools. You can be sure, then, that in this new challenge which all the Greeks have faced together and, of course, in what we have before us, in the pan-Hellenic examination centres, there will be a faithful implementation, in addition to the measures for the educational process and the sanitary measures. I can therefore assure you that for all the examination centres, which are currently designated, the examinations will be carried out with all the measures planned for the prevention and safety of our children and teachers, while respecting the distance to be provided, with antiseptics everywhere - but that has been the case anyway, you know that well in primary and secondary schools - but above all in a way that is smooth, coordinated and sanitary as well as pedagogically successful. So, with this valuable experience that we have gained, unfortunately, in a difficult way for all Greeks lately, but also with the proof of the possibility not only of the government but, in general, of responding to the difficult task of restoring the life of an educational process in the midst of a pandemic, we are in a position at this time to ensure that the examinations are carried out, that our students have access to higher education - with the good for the children they will give - and that the health of teachers and students will be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u54	Good, Minister. We continue with the third with the number 758/1-6-2020 topical question of the second-cycle question of the Greek Communist Party, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The conditions for implementing the two-year compulsory school in kindergartens". Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. One could say that we have continued the debate on the bill and we could, of course, ask if all these great things - and I am talking about the skill workshops for the country's kindergartens - will be concerned, so that they will be tasted by all the children of the country. The answer is no. And you know why? For though institutionally regulated the compulsory two-year pre-school education, however, its implementation has not yet been completed. In 2018, therefore, it was - February - that the SYRIZA government passed a law, Law 4521, where two-year-old pre-school education was passed in kindergartens. At the same time, however, the same law provides for a three-year gradual implementation of this measure for good reasons, because neither buildings nor teachers exist. But, as the people say, Madam Minister, the good day, like the bad day, since this morning seems and indeed seemed to be the first year in which this measure was implemented. We have not given a single euro - as I say to you - in order to implement it, there has not been the slightest amount of financing, no provision, no provision, no one to say 'the rain brother, we do not give it now, but we will gradually give it so that we can deal with the problem of building and staff'. Nothing! And you know, it comes in 2018, then, the first year of application. This requirement - in any case - of the two-year-old kindergarten concerns and is implemented in a hundred eighty-four municipalities, in the smallest populations, those who, in any case, have a small schooling problem in kindergartens. The second year, it takes place in another hundred and eleven municipalities. The second year is 2019-2020, where the Government is the New Democracy, but it is done with the provisions of SYRIZA. SYRIZA - I think April was, again on the Great Week - passed a bill - mammoth, among the articles of which Article 220 existed, which said that by way of derogation from the texts - listen! - and with fast track procedures, the mass housing of infants is allowed. We are talking about young children, about young couples going and teaching in precaution rooms, in kibos, like what we see, in construction sites, about such things. And these precautionary buildings - anyway - and the precautionary rooms will be in the city halls, in the courtyards of primary and high school and high school. I mean, if that's possible. So the issue cannot go on like this, we cannot go on like this. We think that the government - whatever government, you say the state has continued to assume its responsibilities - to give money, to draw up a programme to address the problem of school housing. We do not say that it can be dealt with from one day to the next, but let us finally begin! Involve staff, so that this good of preschool education - because it is good - will taste it all - but everything! - the children of the Greek families.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u56	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u57	I agree, Mr. Delis. It's a good thing. I also agree with the need, if you like, for the great imprint of the two-year pre-school education and education for the development of the child, and especially for the transition to the first grade to be done in a way if you want a smoother and more effective way. So you won't see me disagree here. But I'll tell you where I disagree. I disagree about leveling everything. I object to a government which, within the first year of the two-year period of pre-school education, has shown commitment, if you will, to implementation in ways which I will mention and prove what I am doing. At the same time, I cannot accept the comparison with the SYRIZA government, which legislated without any infrastructure, so I am legislating without having made all the moves, the predictions, so that I can achieve this project. That's where the difference lies. So what did we find last year, coming to the Ministry of Education on 7 July? Many municipalities which were to be introduced because, as you quite rightly said, they did indeed have no particular issue with regard to numbers and because of the demographic and because of the size of the municipality, were much easier to integrate into the first phase of application. But come on, when we go to the second and third phases of application, and come on, now, we have thirteen municipalities to be extended, to postpone application. How many? How many are you saying they had declared weakness? Fifty-four in July 2019. Finally, with great insistence, with cooperation with the municipalities, with the primary education directors, we were able to move forward, leaving thirteen municipalities for implementation in 2020, which are to be added to the twenty-seven major municipalities with the big issues in the housing section, which are to be introduced in 2020. So what did we do about that part of the part we took over from then on? First of all, I have to tell you that cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, with the Ministry of Infrastructure, where you know that it belongs anyway, to the municipalities - because it is a substantial synergy that needs to be done and cooperation - and of course, of course, to primary education, with elements and dates. You talked about money. On 27 March we issued an invitation to eighteen municipalities, namely, to join the Public Investment Programme in order to be able to implement the programme. Yes, Mr. Deli, right now with a house facility. And if we wanted to solve the question of housing, you know that it is not solved in a year, that a programme which is currently to begin will take three to four years. We therefore had to find immediate solutions to the question of the implementation of two-year-old pre-school education. We have therefore called on the eighteen municipalities in the Public Investment Programme - it was a very important facility - and I would like to say to you what we predicted in this programme: EUR 22 000 now VAT for the installation of each teaching room, EUR 14 000 for the sanitary areas and EUR 7 000 for other costs. A package, therefore, which currently covers the need of the municipalities through the EDP. At the same time you know that there are various housing procurement procedures running through the CBC, not all of them with the same delivery option, because you know very well, Mr Delis, that even the part of the coronary had its effect on it, that is, on the possibility of the "KITIRIAN INVESTMENTS" of the houses. At the same time, there are two important amendments by the Ministry of Home Affairs to Law 4674 which facilitates municipalities to lease real estate for the purposes of two-year pre-school education and to Law 4690 which facilitates the process of house supply by municipalities. The municipalities have already been informed - because this is a newly adopted amendment - about this possibility and they are progressing as quickly as they can with regard to the procedures for implementing two-year pre-school education. Not least, all these facilities must tell you that they are in cooperation with the CEDEFOP, and as I said before with all the relevant ministries. So we have this situation here. We have forty municipalities that we would expect in September this year to be introduced and we wait day after day. You know we started e-learning for the first time, to make it easier for both children's parents and guardians, not to need the physical presence, to make an electronic recording. I believe that this is an important reform in the area of infancy education. We expect to see final numbers, to form sections and finally to see how many of the municipalities with the possibility of existing halls, the delivery of rooms from the CCTB, but also the delivery of the other rooms from the EDP, will finally be able to implement the programme, because you will also agree that the numbers must be respected, but of course also the protection measures that are set out in Article 20, which you mentioned, and all the rules for the implementation of the two-year training scheme. With this first introduction - I hope to be able to return - I have attempted, if anything, to give you some very specific and tangible information on the commitment to the implementation of two-year pre-school education in a difficult context. The difficult enclosure is municipalities which are very densely populated and are currently unable to find existing halls or even, if you like, and spaces so that they can place houses, which I think are a temporary solution, is not the ideal one, but it is the one that will help us in the implementation of two-year-old pre-school education. Some other magical way or some kind of stick doesn't exist, Mr. Delia, and you know it. I wish we had it, but we need to find practical solutions not to a problem, but to a challenge, as I would call it, the full implementation of two-year pre-school education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u59	The conclusion, Mr President, is that the compulsory two-year pre-school treatment for all the children of the Greek people remains historically outstanding. This hasn't worked yet. Let's at least agree on that. The responsibilities of all governments here are heavy. Each one, of course, drops them in the previous one. Be sure that both the next government and the next Minister of Education will say the same thing about you, as you now say about the previous ones. That's what our experience has been saying all these years. You have spoken, Minister, about what you have done and not about what you will do as we have called on you. So, let's tell you what you're doing. Let's go to the budgets. For the money first. In 2019 the budget shall be adopted by SYRIZA. 50 million of the Public Investment Programme for the construction of school buildings, therefore also of kindergartens. The government's changing. The 2020 budget, as they say, for the next year. New Democracy votes for him. Another 50 million reduction in the budget of the Public Investment Programme for kindergartens. So what's the conclusion? That you guys got it warm? That you're starting to see it - we're not saying to solve it from one day to the next - to solve this problem? Oh, no. So the second phase, the year we are going through, took place under the conditions laid down by the previous government, these projects, the kibos and so on. And that's all it was? Fifteen thousand children, fifteen thousand infants stacked in six hundred eighty cages. We even talk about rooms where they eat, music halls, halls for events. There have been kindergartens for infancy even in corridors. And of course, with twenty-five children in many cases per section, when the World Health Organization, the experts to whom you have a picture - but here you do not hear them - say that it should not be more than seventeen infants per kindergarten. You made it twenty-five toddlers. Let's go down. Let's go to phase three. The needs of Athens and Thessaloniki - they are two of the municipalities that have not yet entered the program - are huge. One hundred ten rooms, according to official announcement by the Municipality of Athens, seventy rooms, the Municipality of Thessaloniki. And we're not just talking about halls, we're not talking about dugs, we're talking about buildings with their yard, with their equipment, with their infrastructure. You know, the school roof for kindergarten is not just for security reasons, it also has educational purposes. It must also fulfil such conditions and conditions so that the child can develop harmoniously through his game mainly. In the meantime, the pandemic issue arises. Now one may say, Minister, that lies are over. Now this cannot continue. They can't stack twenty-five infants in one department. The problem must be solved immediately, because there is a question of health and safety for both children and teachers and also for parents. We need to reduce the ratio, decongested livestock, permanent cleanliness care, because you know that so little children also need a relevant supervision. What's the government doing here? While someone would say that he's dealing with it, what is he doing? Its own responsibility, the government, yours the other day in the act of legislation, transfers it to the municipalities and tells them "I have no responsibility, take responsibility, find buildings, see to them for their suitability, check them if they are safe". Are we serious? Does a central government responsibility subtract it from the state to give it to the municipalities, control buildings, search for buildings, conduct fitness studies? With what staff, with what employees?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Delia, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u61	This cannot, of course, continue to be the direction in which this issue is being guided. Unfortunately, it will continue to be for a large proportion of infants to have their right to attend a kindergarten, unless they have money, of course, and go to private homes. And in any case, because you may be invoking the problem with money and economic reasons, I will tell you that - beyond billions - we have said so beforehand - who turn over our heads from the European Union when you have had to find money for the canals, so that they do not pay the dose, you have found them. We're talking about millions. Yes, Mrs. Zacharaki, don't move your head. You did the same, of course, by applying a law, to give the road owners, the national roads, who had toll cassettes because they did not drive many cars. When you give to them, and when you take each year off 50 million to become kindergartens, I think you can't say you're really interested in preschool treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u62	Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u63	Now for the latter you realise that obviously I cannot answer, neither for the roads nor for what you have claimed. But I can answer what, yes, I will insist, Mr Delia, we have done. Because if we hadn't done what we would have done it would have been very difficult for me to come and answer you right now to the House. Because if there were not all this insistence, all these months, if there were no public investment programme, if there were no legislative initiatives - and I thank the Ministry of the Interior because we are so coordinated in terms of actions - I could not come today, Mr Delis, and tell you that we were doing so. Because if I responded today to something that would be implemented September, we all realise that there would be no time. But again, because I want to speak - as I said before - with information, I think it is extremely important that this possibility for the Public Investment Programme could be given. It was not self-evident, but it was given, and that states commitment, devotion to this part. I agree that for infants to be able to go from the age of four has a multi-purpose effect. And you're right - I've happened to work with such ages - that these kids need space that is ideal. But, Mr Delis - I said it before and you know it very well too, but are you doing the parliamentary control, which you must do, and with great consistency - can you create rooms from one moment to the next? Can you build schools from one second to the next? You can't. We've answered that thing. So I answered you talking about the Public Investment Programme, I told you about the possibility for municipalities to rent real estate, and I told you about the procedure for supplying houses. I will also tell you about the intake of additional kindergartens that took place in 2019, but which has been budgeted anyway, so that the needs of two-year-old pre-school education can be met from September, with data that we currently have, and we will see how many municipalities will eventually be able to enter in 2020 as well. All of this shows that there is also programming, and at the same time, as I said, a commitment to implementation. You raise one point by saying that we throw the issue to the municipalities. You know very well that, as far as school units are concerned, the responsibility for maintaining it lies with the municipalities, by law, and that there is this cooperation already with the municipalities, with the primary education directors in the municipalities, i.e. the training managers, and self-government officials, so that we can also achieve decentralisation, which is extremely important and also another perception. We have another concept of the role of the municipalities, you know that. We want municipalities active. They know very well about citizens' problems, local needs, issues, exploit public resources in the way they are best for them and their citizens, and they can also be very effective in the end for the citizens who voted for them. Therefore, a proclaimed objective is that the municipality be activated, anyway, by the school being close to the local society, and obviously here we are talking about an ideological difference which we have in terms of decentralisation, if you like, of the services or of the cooperation between the central state and the municipalities. I repeat that we are not the same and I do not know whether we will be the same as some of the next Minister of Education, as you said, with a next Ministry of Education, but certainly what we are doing this year and next year to continue, as I said before, with projects and not with words about our commitment to two-year-old pre-school education. This has to do with the provision of temporary needs, as you know very well that they are the housekeepers, but at the same time with the provision of human resources, with a budget for extra kindergartens for the next school year and, of course, with the introduction of new skills from the kindergarten, as well as the employment of English on a pilot basis. So I answer what you said. It's on a pilot basis, and so it should be, to test all these methods. All this, I think, answers the question of whether we really support pre-school education and, as I have said, will be seen by projects, as has been seen so far, within the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Minister. We are continuing with today's topical and urgent debate. It is the fourth with number 760/1-6-2020, a topical question from the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Taking problems in the conducting and completing of the apprenticeship of professional high school (EPAI)". Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u65	Madam Minister, you are aware that the restriction measures taken because of the pandemic have also resulted in the interruption of apprenticeships for ESDP apprentices, who are now being called upon to deal with a number of difficulties by relaunching their apprenticeship programmes. In particular, those who are practicing in various structures related to vulnerable groups, such as nursing homes, prisons, napkins of homeless people, need - as is clear and necessary - to take protective measures in some cases, to impose on them several times more tests on the coronary or to supply them with the necessary protective equipment and equipment. These measures, of course, are often laid down by the decisions of the bodies themselves in these structures. Of course, it cannot be ruled out that such measures can also be requested from other private enterprises, in which apprentices implement the apprenticeship. We believe that it is problematic and unacceptable that all these costs should be borne in mind, particularly if we are talking about submitting an examination of the coronary, by the apprentices themselves. Moreover, there is a more serious problem with a number of enterprises which, after the lifting of the restrictive measures, have not opened up - and it is uncertain and obvious what will happen in the new school year - or many of them may have opened up, but it is not at all certain that they will be able to remain open. There is a problem with finding a new employer from the apprentices in order to complete the apprenticeship programme. Of course, the Ministry has extended until November 2020 to complete the apprenticeship programmes, but it is still the case of the apprentice who is finding a new employer, who you understand that especially in areas where there may be a massive loss of work in a sector, particularly in islands, in remote areas - it may not be the same in the capital, but there are areas where there is great difficulty - there is a question of continuing and completing the apprenticeship. Furthermore, the fact that - in fact - the apprenticeship programme was unable or unable to complete this year's school year creates a problem, given that there will be many cases of retiring of teachers at the end of the school year, who have sole responsibility for the assignment and conduct of the laboratory part of the practice and to date have no replacement for them. And in these cases, you understand that the problem is more pronounced on the islands and in areas where it is not possible to move teachers from other regions or to transfer pupils to other ESDPs and, of course, if the training staff is not appointed in good time since 1 September, the apprenticeship cannot be completed. And finally, it has already become known that there is a lack of expertise from the Institute of Education Policy, such as engineering, a very basic direction - specialty that is very often chosen by the apprentices, and so many apprentices who have been planning to choose such specialties to stay out. We are asking what measures you will take, Minister, to cover the cost of the protection measures for apprentices by virtue of the coronary, to ensure with state responsibility that all those who have done apprenticeships in businesses that are currently suspended will be able to continue and complete it. Of course, it will ensure that the necessary permanent training staff are assigned to the schools in time, but that the positions in the staff structures are covered, so that no one hour will be lost from the laboratory part of the apprenticeship, because of the retirement of teachers or for other reasons, and that the problem arises in the adoption of any apprenticeship programme from the FPI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u66	Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u67	Mrs Konnakkas, thank you for the question, because this is an extremely important issue of apprenticeship in the PES. I also reply on behalf of the Minister, as he looks after the question of apprenticeship, but also about vocational schools. So you'll give me a minute then let me know about matters that are wider than professional high school. I would like to inform you of the relevant work that has been done. You have already mentioned some points of this in your question. You know, the apprenticeship program is governed by Law 4186/2013, it was our Government that anyway defined it, and indeed, right now, seven years after and with this difficulty we are all going through, it created problems in the course of the programme. He did not leave any appearance of the everyday life of any of our lives anyway. Here the reopening of enterprises depends on factors which the Ministry of Education cannot always control in terms of competence. But see what he's done so far or what's happened. You know that the cost of measures to protect pupils and teachers within school units - and I am talking about professional high school anyway - has also been predicted in cooperation with the municipalities concerned and, of course, every effort has been made in all schools in the country in general education and special education to have at least the pieces of compliance with hygiene rules. And I think that's what he's done anyway. Apart from the school environment, there is a legislative obligation for all businesses and public structures to comply with these protection measures by appropriate means of protection. This is particularly true of enterprises and public structures implemented by apprenticeships under the responsibility of the company or structure. Furthermore, the Ministerial Decision 55323/13-5-2020 expressly states that the Directors of the ESDP shall ensure that all employers comply closely with the EGE’s directives on the safety of workplaces and the protection measures for apprentices. And in our earlier ministerial decision - I recall that it was October 2019 - it is clearly stated that the employer is ensuring that safety and work conditions are respected and must provide the necessary personal protection for apprentices. However, there has also been special care to protect the apprenticeship programmes from the forced restrictions imposed by the coronary. In particular, with the ministerial decision I mentioned a moment ago, in May 2020, we set out that the parts of the period 2019-2020 are reopening - that is, -18 May for both the laboratory training programme and for the work place training programme, apprenticeships at the workplace, and, as you said before, the apprenticeship programmes were extended so that they could be completed by 15 November 2020. I shall continue, Mr President, because there are other elements, anyway, if Mrs Konnakka wants to add something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u68	Well, as you wish, Minister. Ms. Konnakas, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u69	Madam Minister, obviously no one doubts that it is necessary to take all measures to protect the health of the apprentices themselves, especially those who are apprentices and who are in contact with vulnerable groups, we consider this necessary. The question is that, as you have said, the ministerial decision and what is really happening is that the managers should make this obligation known to employers. This does not mean, of course, that the means are observed or that the costs of meeting these measures are borne by them. No one disputes that the apprentice may also be required to undergo an examination test and so on, but this does not in any way guarantee that it will be done free of charge from public hospitals, which you know in any event, in cases where there are no obvious symptoms, is not covered by the EGE. We therefore consider that this remains problematic, that is not controlled by the Ministry too, that the means of attending the courses within the structures of the school will also be available for free of charge at the place where the apprenticeship is held. We also pointed out that the individual responsibility of the trainee for finding a new employer and, in fact, at the risk of not being able within the 10 working days to make the change to the new employer creates greater difficulties in areas where the jobs are limited, so that these children can complete the programme. We regard this as generally problematic over time as a matter of responsibility for the student to find the place to do his apprenticeship and we believe that this should be the responsibility of the Ministry. Finally, the most important part - and in this part you have not answered and I do not know if you are going to respond to your next position - is the fact that it has already been announced and we have been informed, for example, by the 1st PES of New Ionian Magnesia that in discussions with the head of the Ministry's Education Department, he was informed of the lack of expertise in engineering. This means that the expertise of the technical computer aircraft for the school year 2020-2021 will be stopped, but you know very well that the engineering specialty is necessary and it involves a large number of other professional high schools throughout the country. Also, the Ministerial Decision states that it enables the apprenticeship programme to be completed in the next metaly year, and in particular, the decision states that if one of the teachers of the laboratory course either belongs to a vulnerable group or is on a special purpose licence - we say that, respectively, if one of the teachers of a laboratory course is retired - it is investigated, you say, the possibility of entrusting the director of ESAF to another teacher. If it is found that there is no available, then the apprenticeship program is interrupted. So what measures has the Ministry taken to ensure that a number of apprentices are not kept up and are forced or interrupted, that they cannot complete their apprenticeship program and get their qualifications and be forced to change their programming. Respectively, the PCAAL in Lixouri is expected to retire the only electrician and has not yet announced its replacement. Is the Ministry planning to make timely permanent recruitment of basic skills, so that we can really say that these children are supported in order to complete their programme, why is it simply that the prediction of the possibility of completing the programmes without corresponding skills or without such children being able, especially in islands and remote areas, to join other departments, is, in fact, a gift free? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. Mrs Konnakkas, I mentioned the measures taken by the Ministry of Education and received them in good time on the subject of apprenticeship. I have given the framework, in any case, for the reopening, the possibility of changing an employer and for the absence of a virus, and of course, the possibility for pupils for more specific reasons anyway, and for particular reasons relating to the economic crisis and cannot continue their apprenticeship this year, to be able to complete the required number of hours next year. There has been protection and I think with an objective reading of the measures, facilitating the successful completion of the programme. Everything that now emerges - you have seen and with the care that the Ministry has shown so far on apprenticeship issues - individual issues will be dealt with. I would like to address myself to the question of pensions, which you have raised. Indeed, possible gaps in the retirement of teachers arise and will arise every year, because in secondary terms the average age is higher. We know that well. Recruitment for next year will take place earlier. It was also a commitment of the Ministry to be able to recruit alternates earlier than any other year, even with the difficulties that had to be addressed this year because of the coronary. You know, however, that this is done once functional gaps are counted on local secondary education addresses, in accordance with the procedures and tables. So I come to tell you that there will be care to be a timely placement of alternates, recruitment of alternates to all schools - obviously and professionally - to deal with the issues of possible retirements as well. In addition to the recruitment of alternates, let us not forget that this government has already been appointed - it obviously has nothing to do with the PCAs, but I have to inform you - a thousand people of special educational staff and special assistants. This is about the well-known procedure of the special treatment. We proceeded to the call for general education in December. We all know that this is a demanding process, because too many people have made their request, and of course it is pending by the AACC, but I think that these are tangible moves, tangible proofs of interest in serving public education and with permanent teachers after ten years that have not actually been appointed in education. As I told you before, given the opportunity with your timely question, I would like to give you some information on vocational schools that I consider to be also indicative of continuing commitment to the part of vocational education. We have a record number this year. Thousands of ninety-eight-sixty-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-year-olds were approved, so this year the total number of few-sixty-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven, this year. This is a historic high in recent years. We talked about the issue of appointments. In any case, this will concern schools in the next few years, but there is also a new beginning in the PCAs. Five hundred thirteen alternate teachers in the training courses were recruited for Greek and Mathematics, as well as special educational staff PE23 psychologists, so that there can be the necessary support through the creation of a healthy school environment. The lecturer's institution for further systematic student support was introduced. The PCAs have upgraded - and this is very important - with teleconference infrastructure. I must tell you that this year's school year has completed a tender for the supply of two hundred six teleconferencing systems and their delivery to school units has been launched. I still have a lot to say, but I don't want to tire you. All of this is evidence and evidence of a specific policy of strengthening vocational education, which you will see even more strongly in the next period, as we have already stated that it is our intention to come up with a new legislative initiative on the introduction of PCA pilots on the basis of the possible further development of children who are in the PES. Our intention and availability is to see the increase in records that we have seen in the PCAs this year. I have to tell you that this year there were hundreds of thousands of seventeen students signed. We want this increase to continue. I repeat and recapitulate: all measures have been taken for vocational high school, as for all the rest, so that we can have a smooth reopening. In Ministerial Decision apprenticeship programmes, all measures were also taken to ensure not only protection but also essential facilitation of the completion of the programme. All the issues that will probably be raised, which you have raised as to the distance or weakness of some students for integration, I think they can be dealt with in a second time by the Ministry. I repeat here not only the encouragement, but also our expectation that all the measures taken by our students in every undertaking, the observance of security measures, are being taken everywhere, as you can see. It may not be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, but we, too, expect our students to respect all security measures by all means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. The minutes of the sittings of Monday 24 February 2020, Tuesday 25 February 2020, Wednesday 26 February 2020, Thursday 27 February 2020, Friday 28 February 2020, Tuesday 3 March 2020, Wednesday 4 March 2020, Thursday 5 March 2020, Friday 6 March 2020, Monday 9 March 2020 and Tuesday 10 March 2020, have been distributed and the House is asking if it ratifys them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u73	The minutes of the meetings of Monday 24 February 2020, Tuesday 25 February 2020, Wednesday 26 February 2020, Thursday 27 February 2020, Friday 28 February 2020, Tuesday 3 March 2020, Wednesday 4 March 2020, Thursday 5 March 2020, Friday 6 March 2020, Monday 9 March 2020 and Tuesday 10 March 2020 were validated. Before entering the agenda for Questions, we will have a brief break for the health protection needs that are maintained in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda here. Question No 17/3-3-2020 will be discussed by the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, MP of the Larissa Prefecture, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection and the Minister for Migration and Asylum on the subject: "Action by NGOs - NGO funding from the Greek State". The reason for the question is Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos and President of the Greek Solution for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to start today's speech, to tell you that we are being divided into a huge governmental distance with your party. And I say chaos, because our substantial differences are on the pillar of the economy, as is at least being exercised by your own side with your constant mistakes, the divestment of national wealth, the continuation of this mistake, with the CECO, with water, with the current, all these pitiful things you have done, which we call a "supplier". And I'm saying it because we need to sort out the ideologies in here. Because at some point we need to talk seriously about what each one takes. A New Democracy, a patriotic party, as you say, divests everything that could bring us profit and actually divests it. Because the only revenue our state could have is certain pillars of the economy. The second is the way in which economic policy is conducted, which is management policy following orders and interventions by the external actors. I say this because while you have orders to pursue an economic policy seriously, you continue to regress between indecisiveness and so-called decisions and I am referring to the primary sector. Even now that anyone in here is talking, the farmers who have suffered a huge blow in Easter have not taken a single euro, Mr Ministers, and I am sad about it. Because, fundamentally, if anyone knows, it means that the primary sector, namely fishing, agriculture, livestock, is the pillars of a survival of a group, a whole. What did you do? You've wiped them all out. Of course, our overall break with the New Democracy is in national matters. It is a party that continues SYRIZA's tactics in the scop, a party which has not even spoken of the persecutions of the North-East, which are happening even now that we are talking about and helping Albania get into the European Union, with Turkey and all these important issues. Once again from the Step of Parliament, I will call for the convening of political leaders - we were the first to ask for it - to decide what the red lines are. Mrs Gennimatas also agrees with Mr Tsipras and Mr Koutsoubas, as far as I know Mr Varoufakis is concerned. Let's see what the red lines are. Because, in our view, a dirty game is being played. What's that? Six nautical miles. You've set a cubit, Mr. Ministers, six nautical miles. That's the worst of all. Because you do not reserve the twelve that International Law tells us, nor the two hundred miles, and you allow Turkey to go to seven miles to drill and finish the fairy tale there, say that it is not our place, that we have declared nothing, so that we can go to a negotiating table. Either you've set up the game with Turkey or you're wrong. Pick which of the two applies. Both are wrong anyway. Of course, we have a great deal of disagreement on the issue of illegal immigrants, refugees and immigrants, as everyone wants them to baptize in Greece anyway. My view is that they are illegally incoming, illegal immigrants, in any case, without permission, without papers. I will read you an excerpt from the speech on Prime Minister's time on October 4, 2019, on refugees, as you say: "I am proud when I go to parades and see our society slowly transformed into multiculturalism." I don't know how proud a person can feel when his society is violently turned, not properly, into multiculturalism. Because you are in a violent way turning it into multicultural. This is what happened in America, which also imposed on me multiculturalism, because the indigenous people were slaughtered, that is, the Apache tribe became helicopters, Cherokee became a jeep and they don't appear anywhere. If you want Pontius, Asia Minor, Arvanitis, or I don't know who else to do it after twenty, thirty years of cherokee or chopper, it's your thing. It's not my thing. Mitsotakis in Israel on 11 June 2018: "The rise of xenophobia, Nativism and racism is unfortunately a reality in Europe, which we must step on and face." Nativism: Love for suicide. Why fight her? Love toward the nation. Why should we fight it? I want to make you an introduction to your ideological profile, an anti-national profile purely, a non-hellenic profile purely. Prime Minister's time: "We must accept those who come and can and must entangle an ageing economy and need human resources." Another irrationality, because when your human potential is ageing and you have a demographic problem, you motivate the natives to give birth to other children. You, with overtaxation, have forced and not have children and six hundred thousand Greeks to go abroad for 15 years. So, then, we show any ideological disagreement between us starting. On 4 October 2019, a speech on Prime Minister's time: "Neither fences nor walls". And now your government, all your ministers, are taking care of you as a fence. I mean, he's a fence that with a tantalum you cut him off and you leave. Wireless for chickens and domestics is that. In other words, you come to the line of Greek Solution, you steal the idea, but you do not have the courage to say, "We were wrong a few months ago." That's not what you're saying. Of course SYRIZA now agrees with the fence. There is no other solution at the border, it shields the borders. I'm saying this to understand that some things don't work out. Minister, I'd like to ask a few questions. In a Greece that is falling, in a country that is really hostage to its finances, which has homeless Greeks, who have Greeks who cannot pay for their loan, which is at risk of confiscation in a few months we have a major economic problem and in a curious way through third-ways and state intervention, you give billions of euros to people who have come to our country lately. They say that we have taken 2 billion from the European Union for illegal immigrants, refugees, as you tell them, I tell them illegal immigrants. I will insist on the logical interpretation of the term, because that's what Babiniotis says, I'm not saying it, Babiniotis, if you open the dictionary, that's what I'm saying illegal immigrants. And I ask how serious it is when at home, my Minister, do you have four members not to eat, but to give your neighbor who doesn't have to eat the money he could give your child? How is it possible to feed those who have come now and not to feed the Greek homeless who has no food to eat? To God, I'm not saying we're all good, not giving the illegal immigrants the refugee to eat. I say, but the Greek is homeless, there are Greeks who don't have to eat, who don't make their living, how do you do that when you do this at home, I'm sure you would never do it and you don't. You've built seventy-two structures all over the country. My Minister, do you understand what you've done? Seventy-two structures means seventy-two Islamous cities that are normal, as you hear them, Islamists because they are just Islamists. This is not a multicultural society, Minister. Each structure is an Islamic structure. It's not bad anyone will tell me. Clearly, to agree on that it's not bad. Yes, but we don't know those who are in there if they're MIT agents, if they're jihadists, if they're provocators, if it's a fifth pole of Turkey, when they come up with the Turks and they're gonna cause problems. We don't know. In other words, the Greek nation the brother with Israel is going to make it a multicultural nation. Why? Two nations exist in world history, Mr. Minister. Two. What can we do? Israel, the Jews and the Greeks. The Israelis, however, guard "Thormopoils", or guard their nation and you take your eyes off yourself or take Greece's eyes out. For me in the next election, the question, my Minister, is: What will we want for Greece? Will we want Greece or Greece? That will be the question. Greece or Greece. You give them 500 euros a month, free home, free feeding, free internet, legal aid, medical care. In the quarter, third to sixth, there were a thousand eighty - six in our islands. To pay off the credit, but you know the little bad doesn't mean it's not bad, that's a little bad, that's a few arrivals doesn't mean it's good. You're wrong. If you really want to do good, close the border, push back, so nobody gets in. Are you always getting less in here, that is because a lot of people have entered and now fewer people are getting in is better? It is not a good situation on our islands, and I will tell you what it is for. You are transporting to the mainland, about seven thousand people, six thousand seven hundred seventy-four, that is, in three months you have introduced an Islam city like Amphissa. You brought seven thousand people, a city like Amphissa, a new city. Statistics: "ESTIA", twenty-two thousand eighteen thirteen illegal immigrants, only six thousand six hundred forty-two are recognised, Minister, the other sixteen thousand asylum seekers. And I say: 16,000 asylum seekers. Of the sixteen thousand, 60% have AMKA, 67% has a student, 51% has AMG. I mean, you legalize them from the back door. While we did not accept their asylum, you put them from the back door as legal in here. Why? Since they've still applied for asylum, they haven't taken it. It's their business and their papers. How do you legalize them from the back door by pulling out VMG, AMKA. Why? Tell me why. Financial aid. April 2020, ninety-six thousand six hundred and fifty-two beneficiaries received EUR 9.4 million of cash. Minister, 10 million have received ninety-six thousand beneficiaries from these gentlemen in April 2020 in one month. Listen to the number 10 million. To the farmer, to the farmer, to the fisherman or euro. To change their names, the Greeks should all become Ibrahimis and Hasanis. This is what you do through the program 'EXTIA' and it is an injustice flagrant. I got the paperwork here. It's your document, Minister, I'll put it in the Minutes. They're yours, they're not mine. I say all this because you have reached a point of irrationality, Minister. You say hot spots are a transient situation. Don't you think? You're saying it's a temporary situation. Make hot spots and assimilate them along the way. A logic I see if you want to some extent, assimilate them. Of course, we saw how all of them were assimilated to America. Let go of that. Let's go down there because the water doesn't assimilate with oil. We saw what happened in France both in the incidents and in Germany, which I have known, and I know what a Muslim either Moroccan or Turkish means, in order for someone to go in there to live, you cannot live. The Germans and Greeks leave the region and go to other regions, because Muslims live. Don't you know that, Minister, you in England? In England, Minister, you weren't? In the settlements around - could you go to Muslim ghettos easily? Could you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u76	We could.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u77	There's a Greek who could. Now, of course, if I believe him, Mr. Metarakis might also be an alien. I cannot in Germany, however, say that to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u78	We're on our way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u79	Leave these to me, because in England I've gone too, I know what it's like to go through some areas that are Muslims. Leave it now. These are to go to Piccadilly tracks, there your acquaintances. That's not here. You don't go to the ghettos, it's not easy to go. So the Minister has been called, contractors in hot spots, and now the Minister is considering making them permanent. His commitment is here, here he is, he'll make permanent hot spot employees, when our hospitals don't have to treat anyone when they don't hire doctors. So much premiere now, so much premiere? I don't get it. I mean, it's a few things that bother me as logical and ulcerative. I don't get it. He'll find them a job, he says, as land workers in refugees, illegal immigrants. It makes them special training programs, facilitates finding work, and you leave eleven thousand in society tomorrow morning with the ETUCA program, you're riding them out. You leave eleven thousand people who don't have a job, they can't survive. You had them in buildings with the ETUCA program, you put them in, they ate, they drank for free. They're not, they're going out, they're going to be glimpsed out. If they don't have the money the simplest of all, Mr. Mitaraki, it's people stealing. If they don't have to eat, what do they do to survive? It's a reasonable instinct of survival that they'll steal. You're absolved by 11 thousand of them out there to put on others. And I'm wondering the logic is that? I don't understand it, I don't understand it. We also had the phenomenon of a Malakasa lady's scab, playing on some channels. No health checks are carried out, Mr. Metarakis. I personally spoke to the republic of Lesvos today. There are no real checks. They've created trade fairs selling meat in Moria, selling whatever you want, doing in their own shops, not licensed take from anyone or anything about legal controls. You call that a serious policy? You call that a serious policy, Minister? Here they go to Moria and they leave notes. He went to Kilkis to my relative, Minister, non-governmental organization and left a note saying: "If you want us to rent your house." With what right, Minister? What right? And what are they doing? They're giving more money, they're giving more money than the rent standard, so the other one who doesn't have any money to rent it. It divides Lesvos NGO and nobody speaks to a Greek department and a non-Greek department. Did you see that, Mr. Metarakis? A non-governmental organization made a announcement and said to the Greek department and non-Greek. Which country is this serious? Non-governmental organisations rent houses at a multiple price from that of the market, and even in videos how to throw fences and pass. There's videos on the Internet. Here's the question I've submitted to you, I'm still waiting for an answer. I don't know if you saw what happened in Lesvos, it was published yesterday. The films are films, make films, films broadcast around the world, Minister, videos that poor people are drowning in Lesvos. Here it is. I'll testify to the Minutes. These are the phenomena of a state structure, not that it deludes, which is finished. You're a state structure finished. Minister, I want you to take a note. Minister, why is the NGO record classified? Their record is classified, here it is. Why should I put a code? Tell me why the NGOs are classified? For what? But it's a classified record, guys. Take a note of it. I don't get it. I'll submit it to the Minutes. I ask you for eleven months - you are not answering us - how many non-governmental organisations are there in Greece? How many are we supposed to know? What are the consequences on existing NGOs, but did they not register? Listen a little. I know what you're going to tell me, I'll tell you it's not over with the record, see when the record is over. You will also tell me that those who have not been entered in the register, what will their sentences be? Can you tell me? Because that's what's important. Eleven months, a record can't you do and change Greece? You had a schedule! How many tax controls have been carried out on NGOs? Tell me. What are the results? Fines imposed? Have NGO ever been convicted of illegal acts, yes or no? How much money was finally given by the European Union to non-governmental organisations? I've asked 15 questions to your department. How much money was made from the state budget? For the Greeks to know how much money he contributes. Because you've been cultivating a fairy tale and you, and SYRIZA and the Change Movement, that the European Union is giving it money. But the European Union is not giving the money. The hospitals pay the Greek to be the one who's in there, the Greek, and the Greek, if he doesn't have the appropriate insurance marks, he also pays a subscription to his medicine. But he doesn't, he gets it all for free. Also, I'll tell you some of the sins to close. I won't tell about Soros and all that, he says it a thousand times. Criminal offences: thirty people, member NGOs, criminal organisation, participated in an organised Immigration Circuit. They had technology to know information about refugee flows through Turkey. They watched illegally wireless communications from the Port Corps FRONTEX. That's what happens in Greece, gentlemen, isn't it? Oxfam scandal: cases of sexual exploitation by NGO workers in minors, who have been in existence for too long worldwide. Sexually transmitted diseases, even AIDS, complaints of people from the islands. I'm telling you, so you know. Greek NGO, 2011-2018: Gross revenues EUR 23.8 million. They testified them themselves. In other words, in eight years' time, EUR 23 million, grants EUR 9.7 million, six hundred staff, pays the wages of EUR 7 million, all mercenaries. Of course the big problem is falling or ERC is falling. Enrolment of seventy thousand migrants in Greece in 2015. ERC gets 2,000 euros head, two grand head! This is not charity, this is business, well organised, it's not NGO. Plus 5,000 a year for engaging in government programmes. That's a business. And I say it: business. Two grand head? You know, because I am one of those who believe in the broadest sense, Minister, of logic, I want to contrast as much as I can. All this doesn't seem reasonable to me. In 2018, we had 1,69 billion euros of money provided by the European Union to manage non-governmental organisations, 794 million have been received by NGOs and a lot of money lists of millions of euros, because the Greek state cannot manage the problem. That's what you're telling me. Why would the NGOs be? Close the NGOs, which are slave trades, and you as government take the problem to solve. Otherwise why do you rule, Minister? In other words, you have a government next to you, the NGOs, which govern, do not govern, govern. That is to say, they are non-stated mechanisms, we have the state, the government and the non-state mechanisms. They're non-stated mechanisms. I'm closing up, saying this. Do you know what you're gonna do now? You're going to make a bigger crime. Those of the illegal immigrants, refugees and immigrants who are persecuting, will be angered by those who live. You've committed a crime in Lesvos and the islands, take some of them from there and leave the others there, Minister. The ones who stay there are disgusted. She tells you why you took the others and you didn't call me? They're going out with the skeletons and they're going after the people of Mytilini, the people of Samos, Chios. Why? Because very simply, I repeat, as the district manager has said, they do it every day. Yesterday in Chios, where you were elected, there were incidents. You're smiling. I'm not elected there, that's where you and I may be re-elected if people want you. I don't care about that. But we're actually going. Among the seventy people were slaughtered in the street, and the inhabitants were trembling, and so were in Thessaloniki, in Patisia, here. Don't you see that? Don't you realize that these are mistakes? Finally, I will say this, Minister. I fear that in thirty years, if the New Democracy continues to rule, Greece will be called "Greek", the Greeks will be much less than the rest and a homogeneous, explosive mixture that you will create will change the course of Greece. There will be no Greek nation. We are in favour of Greece, being Greek, Christian, but tolerant of any other, but always in one line, first Greece, first Greeks and then anyone else. I would like you to tell me when you will close the NGOs that are illegal, how many NGOs are and why your register is not public and if you do so publicly, whether you will look for them and when you will do real checks. Controls and results I want. Don't start here with what you're saying. Documents I want you to give me. When you tell me you did three checks, I want the paperwork. No theories, we're full of theories. And if you did three checks, it's four hundred. Three in four hundred is a hole in the water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. I can't see the plane catched at 6:00. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. Metarakis has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with unity and determination we have faced and face the challenges. We are facing the migratory crisis with clear objectives, firstly, the substantial reduction in flows and, secondly, the reduction of the impact of the crisis on local communities. We have been faced with a growing role, but we have reacted and reacted decisively, in view of the national interest, as we have done in dealing with pandemic, as we have done in dealing with the consequences, with the economic consequences of the pandemic in our country, and we will continue to do so in view of the national interest and the responsibility of migrants not to allow the crisis to be worked out to achieve geostrategic objectives. Following the decision of the CSCE under the Prime Minister, on March 1st, we upgraded the guarding of our borders. Our determination to maintain this high level of defence of our borders is now apparent to everyone. Greece is a strong and proud country against all kinds of challenges. Arrivals in April decreased by 97%, in May by 91%, compared with 2019. We reversed the trend of the streams after a difficult 2019. At the same time, we are speeding up the asylum procedure so that we can quickly distinguish those who are entitled to international protection from those who are economic immigrants and should be returned to the countries of origin. We are applying the process of leaving the first reception structures of those who are no longer entitled to stay, that is to say, as provided by Greek legislation, as provided for by relevant ministerial decisions, a process that I must note began in 2019 by SYRIZA, who did two overall eviction procedures. But the process will now be stable, smooth, and the support and transition mechanism will also be strengthened for the benefit of both the beneficiaries and the Greek society. Results of this strategy: First, the decongestion of our islands. It's a reality now, it's not a theory. The numbers are talking. The island Cytos resident on the islands have been reduced by 16% since the beginning of the year. A total of thirteen thousand seven hundred twenty - eight people have moved from the islands to mainland Greece. The increased flow of the first two months has been absorbed. And today there are thirty-two thousand instead of thirty-eight thousand in early January, which remains - we will all agree - very high. Decongestion is a stable, lasting process that will work throughout 2020. The second result of our policy is a very substantial one: we are now changing the planning strategy of the host system, both in the islands and in the inland. Thanks to the reduced flows, thanks to the accelerated asylum process, thanks to the withdrawal of those who are no longer entitled to stay, we plan for much less structures and smaller structures than the 2019 planning. Society sees the results of our policy in practice. Less positions, less structures. Our aim is to dismantle the islands, but without filling up structures in mainland Greece. Our aim is to decongested the whole country from the migratory crisis, contrary to what other opposition parties are asking for, who constantly want to create new structures. We want to close sixty structures in mainland Greece this year in 2020. We are already applying the limit of 1% of the population for the stay of asylum seekers and in 2020 we want to achieve this at regional level too, which is what the whole society wants, the fairest distribution of burdens, which must also be done at European level. Greece is at the forefront of negotiating the new European Union's asylum and immigration regulation and we are calling for a permanent allocation mechanism for these burdens. In your prototype, Mr President of the Greek Solution you have suffered many contradictions. You say to us on the one hand that you want the islands to be decongested - and you spoke to the district manager a moment ago - but you are opposed to the transfer of asylum seekers to mainland Greece. You want us not to give asylum seekers privileges. You have referred to various figures, but at the same time you complain now that we are interrupting them to those who are no longer entitled to them. You do not want new structures, but you want them to remain in the structures of those who are not entitled to it. You're finally saying that we haven't taken many of the islands, and we're creating a problem, because we got a few of them, but if we brought them to mainland Greece, you'd be protesting why we brought them to mainland Greece. It needs separation, and that means a balanced immigration policy. This means that Greece is a European rule of law that respects international conditions and our participation in the European Union. It means that we are giving asylum to those who deserve and move on to deportations of those who are not entitled to international protection. We made 12 return missions to 2020 before the border was closed. We are ready, when the border is reopened, to speed up returns. We agreed with the European Union five thousand voluntary returns with European Union funding. Of course, you know that the current European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration, which SYRIZA accepted in 2016, unfortunately condemned our islands, because only there, according to the declaration, can an asylum test be carried out so that Turkey may be allowed to return to Turkey, rather than Turkey accepting the return of those who, according to Greek law, are not recognised as refugees and who are effectively rejected. You have shown a false picture of immigration, in an attempt to terrorise Greek society, but the numbers don't deserve you, Mr. Velopoulou. As a whole, there are sixty thousand people in our country, that is, 0.6% of the population. Asylum seekers are currently under 1% of the population. So the numbers are not as you want to present them in Greek society. Of course, already in 2019, the New Democracy Government has separated the rights of asylum seekers from access to the labour market compared with those finally recognised. Because we are actually implementing a separation policy, and this is the civilised European way of dealing with the immigration crisis, with no extremes, neither in any way nor in the other direction. Mr President, since the first days of the Ministry's re-establishment, we have clearly formulated our intention to delimit the action of non-governmental organisations, to recover control over immigration. An important step in this direction was the recommendation of the legal entity of the thirty-two existing hosting structures on 24 March this year. They are not new structures, as some of you have rushed to tell the House and the media. We don't build new structures. The existing thirty-two structures come under the control of the Greek state and this disturbs some and creates reactions. And then we placed governors in these existing structures, which fall within the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, not only to take responsibility and have the obligation to account to the state for the structures involved, but also to proceed with the performance of forty thousand pending asylum decisions, which led to the overcompensation of the existing structures. Of course, I recognise that our country, since the upturn in migration flows in 2015, has turned into a attraction for various non-governmental organisations. However, I would like to emphasise the very positive contribution of many international and Greek organisations and organisations to tackling the crisis. We work very well with leading international organisations that offer our country know-how, services and goods, with experienced and multilingual staff, as we work with Greek and foreign NGOs on issues such as housing, protection of unaccompanied minors, support of structures, provision of health and interpretation services. However, the high entry of NGOs in 2015, many of which have now departed, took place in a highly flexible legal framework as to how they operate, their activities, the persons involved, the sources of funding, the use of resources, the flexible framework for recruitment, awards, contracts. This is why the SYRIZA government's choice of how to manage immigration has helped, perhaps the European Union's choice to prefer NGOs from the then government to manage resources. There they sought the credibility and offered mere funding, but it belonged to our country. In particular, the European Union allocated Greece EUR 1.5 billion in 2015-2019. The then Ministry of Migration Policy absorbed directly only 1.9% of the funds allocated to our country, while 82%, according to the table I will present you, was allocated to international organisations and NGOs, to manage migration directly, in their own way. It was rather clear that Europe's lack of confidence in the Ministry on SYRIZA, a Ministry of 'empty shirt', without adequate structures, without permanent staff and finally with no resources, was lacking. For many years there has been a low level of government intervention in most hospitality structures. We had only kept the diligence that the Army had undertaken and you realise, of course, that this is not the task of the Armed Forces. The previous government, in other words, had handed over the keys to NGOs, which managed directly European funds. They hired staff, thousands of poster employees, under procedures for which the State was completely ignorant, with salaries far greater than the Greek State and carried out commissions in a confidential manner with regard to the Greek State. In fact, SYRIZA had privatised the management of the immigration issue, avoiding the existence of state control mechanisms. Today the recovery of control also marks the recovery of our international credibility. The European institutions see in the face of our country a fierce interlocutor, a manager, now, of the migratory crisis. With the first legislative initiatives, already in February, we established the Register of Members of the Non-Government Organizations and made their monitoring framework more coherent. I would remind you that our amendment was not voted on by the other parties. Anyone judged whether he supported it or did not support it, and I wonder, those who did not support it, did they not want to control the NGOs? However, we in this provision offer public administration and all the competent supervisory authorities, the institutional knowledge necessary for the operation of Greek and foreign NGOs, which will no longer be impersonal. We moved on to place a special secretary at the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum in order to effectively supervise the new register, to cooperate with supervisory authorities, to contribute catalyticly to the control of these organisations. We strengthen accountability and voluntary compliance and anyone who does not comply with the new requirements will be deleted from the register, will not have the members of the right to enter structures or cooperation with the Ministry of Migration and Asylum. Every NGO member, who is active in the field, will receive a special identity and only with this identity will be able to enter structures and cooperate with the state machine. It is intended to allow on-the-spot checks by the Ministry's Special Secretariat. This record, it's already working, isn't classified. It's just, you know, on the computer, we need each one to open his own account, with his own username and password, to get in, so he can put his own data. I can't put the evidence on your own account. This register will therefore be published. This register is public and they have already set up an account of two hundred forty-five NGOs and have sent figures of eighteen, much less than four hundred NGOs who had applied to the old register of the Ministry of Interior. Rather, the new legislative framework self-regulations and clears up the blurred landscape in which they acted before uncontrollably. And because you asked me, Mr. Velopoulos, the first phase of completion of the register is 14 June. Then close the deadline for the already operating NGOs that had submitted to the old register to update their data and put the elements of members on the field. And this is the first time that national supervision, coordinated state control and, in cooperation with the National Transparency Authority, as well as other control mechanisms, are already being carried out on the basis of planning. These competent authorities will also be informed of the results. You have asked, Mr Velopoulos, for the management of resources from the NGOs. I will submit the report from the European Commission - April 2020 - which mentions the NGOs and organisations that have received European funding since 2015. It includes detailed projects, the funding fund, the recipient of the funding and the amount received. A total of EUR 1.3 billion was received from the projects listed in the table, NGOs and international organisations. As regards payments by the Greek State, following the establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy in 2016, the SALW of the Ministry of Interior's Public Investment Program with the projects concerned were transferred to it. I will also submit the relevant payment table to NGOs. They are payment transactions, starting from 2016, totalling EUR 22.6 million. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been called upon to face multiple crises. We were called upon to address the increased arrivals in the first two months of 2020, the tension and the incidents on our islands, the asymmetrical threat to our borders, the pandemic of the krone, as well as the need to establish the Ministry, the implementation and improvement of the new law of asylum, the taking over of the structures and the continuous decongestion of the islands. We have faced these challenges with plan and determination. We have sought transparency and rational planning from the outset. Our goal? Escape from the emergency regime, established by the previous government, by forming framework agreements for the supplies and operation of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, framework agreements that adopt the best practices of the European Union. Already in the first four months we have laid solid foundations, we have declared the first framework agreement on the cleanliness of all the asylum structures in the country for the next four years with publication on the European Union page. We will, therefore, do within 2020 for all the basic supplies that the Ministry needs. And we achieve a cost reduction. For two emergency structures that we needed to build as a Ministry, we achieved a 25% reduction in costs by 30% compared to corresponding structures. Last week, the travel competition was guaranteed. It is 67% cheaper than the previous SYRIZA competition. We have announced and announced the semi-autonomous accommodation structures for unaccompanied minors with 50% reduction in costs. The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum also promotes the implementation of structural security actions. This is a very important issue. There are problems, malfunctions in structures from their open nature. However, there are problems in the asylum process, and we are moving forward with modernising the ALKYONI system with a view to more rapid registration, processing and delivery of asylum decisions by means of a self-registration questionnaire system, as allowed by the new Directives of the European Union, with teleinterviews, which are now also allowed, by digital version and performance of asylum decisions, by strengthening the digital linking networks of structures so that we do not have lost days in the operation of the Asylum Office. We are doing something else very important: Installing systems of entry and exit into structures, while placing double fence on each structure and an integrated security system. With the introduction of systems of controlled access and the distribution of entry and exit cards, only those who are entitled to access and exit will be guaranteed in an organised way so that the phenomena that you, Mr President, are not repeated are presented in your speech. In the structures we have problems of violence, which concern the residents themselves. The security of the residents is a priority for us. It also concerns local communities. It is precisely our obligation to protect local societies. And I would like to stress that Samos and Malakasa will be the first closed and controlled hosting structures in the next few months. It is a promise to the local community, but also a commitment of our Ministry. The model of controlled structures will gradually be transferred to all islands and mainland Greece, the structures that will remain after the sixty structures that we have already announced will be closed down this year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working systematically to limit flows and we now have measurable results. We are working systematically on the safety of structures and we have a concrete plan. We have been working systematically on transparency and rationalisation in the management of the Ministry and we have taken the first, very substantial steps, which have not been taken for years in terms of framework agreements despite the European Commission's demand. We are working systematically to reduce the impact of the crisis on local communities by increasing security in structures, by controlling NGOs, by creating the Solidarity Fund to support projects in municipalities affected by the migratory crisis, by paying back fees to municipalities hosting structures, not in return for compensation, because we respect local societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too, for keeping time, Minister. We shall now proceed to the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, MEP since the Greek Solution for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am trying as long as you're talking - I don't know, I don't have that kind of knowledge, I'll look for it once I leave the Chamber - to find out what the phenomenon is called when someone stubbornly refuses to accept reality and describes another reality. I don't know. I don't have any medical knowledge, and I can't follow them like that. But when a man lives in a parallel universe - with all my sympathy and respect - by listening to you I thought I was living in Luxembourg? However, not in that country. Mr. Metarakis, you did another damage to me today, because you overthrowded my entire speech. Other things I'd done. But you have said such things here today, which we need to answer to all of this. And then we will also go to the landing operation in reality to welcome the National Representation and the Greek people the Minister of Migration in Greece. Mr. Metarakis, you must be somewhere else. You don't live here and you're also a Chiot and an islander. Is the New Democracy Government and Mr Mitaraki's Ministry really working on the national interest? Does what is happening in Greece have the national interest as a whole? We see other things! We might be wrong. I don't know. You'll tell us later, in your dentistry. Proud country, Mr. Mitaraki, Greece is. Yeah, she's proud. For the strong one, I don't know. And for the strong, all of you who have ruled it for fifty years now are responsible for the strongness. You told us about lowering increases. The numbers, you know, don't always tell the truth. For 97% you told us in April, for 91% in May. I will tell you otherwise and very simply: let us not have the coronary, let Erdogan hadn't tightened up the cannabis, and we would say here what number of arrivals we'd have had and whether we'd have had a reduced number or not. Unfortunately, Mr Mitarakis, in the way you and SYRIZA are dealing with the problem that you are completely identical, with a few differences in surface, the prevention of arrivals in Greece depends on Erdogan and not on us. And we'll tell you later how to deal with the phenomenon. We've been talking to you for years, but you don't think you're gonna wake up. And you continue, Mr Mitarakis, you will allow me to tell you and I did not want to say this to the House, but you do so, since you will allow me to tell you what you, that is, you are a liar, lie and do so on a continuous basis for the Greek Solution. You say the Greek Solution does not want the islands to be decongested. We made it clear here in the Greek Parliament many times in your bill and you said - it was a gentlemen's agreement - that 'all right, it's over, I won't say it again'. You say it again today. First, anyone who hears that laughs, gets their stomach off laughing. The Greek Solution doesn't want the islands decongested? Are you interested in the decongestion of the islands or the country fading? Let me see what you're interested in. We're interested in them all getting out of here. We don't care to get them out of here to take him elsewhere. A problem transfer? What are you guys doing? Do you carry the problems to the right and to the left? So in your dentistry, I want you to restore order and say that your argument was at least false. Because we don't want decongestion of the islands alone. We want the decongestion of all of Greece, and not to take them from the islands and defile them 11 thousand potential violations throughout the territory, because these people will be hungry, they will be unemployed, they will not do what else and the local society will suffer. Is that a solution? I'm kicking it off of me, and I don't care? "You have no right to stay in structures anymore. You're eleven thousand. Get out of here. Go and do what you want. Go to the OAED, find jobs." I'll see you in a bit. You said Mr. Velopoulos terrified the Greeks. Mr Metarakis, we will try here today to show you that your policy terrorizes the Greeks. You terrorize the Greeks with what you do, roaming illegal immigrants to the right and to the left. You terrorize Greeks with what the hungry, poor Greek sees. He sees every month standing in the line of Nigerians, Afghans, Somalis and Congoles to get 500 euros a month and he searches his pocket and has 100 euros. So you terrorize the Greeks when grandparents and grandparents cannot be released in their village when they destroy communities locally. Go see what's going on in Malakasa and other places. In societies of eight hundred and a thousand people you put three and four thousand immigrants and you are proud of what you do. You are cooperating, you say, with foreign and domestic NGOs for housing, child care. Which juveniles, Mr. Metarakis? We were here voting in the Ministry of Justice and you told us that those who do not recognize how many years they are, because they are not certified by their papers or by any other document, are making them all minors. You voted here, New Democracy. And you had the courage as government to demand that the Greek Solution put its signature on this disgrace. Who are those juveniles who weeped? The minors unaccompanied who are they? Twenty-five years old kids coming in and kicking their papers? Are you serious? Are they minors? Mrs. Domna Machineha has disappeared, I don't know what's going on. Where are all these Ministers and Undersecretaries? On New Year's Eve, Mr Mitaraki, an amendment to all these unaccompanied children, who will stay in apartments every two to three, have psychological support, have coffee makers, have kitchens. Our kids run abroad too. What can we do? This is the new Greece you see, your multicultural Prime Minister. This is Greece, that is what you tell the Greek people, and not what you have come to strangle here today and describe a situation that does not exist. You told us about the huge successes of your ministry. What Ministry? The Ministry that you abolished and brought it back? In the revival you have experienced, the penthouse you had seven to eight months and did not know where you were standing and where you were standing while you came to the government with two krone issues, Macedonian and illegal immigrants and that you have a programme, you are ready to implement it. What's your schedule? You changed seven Ministers, their Undersecretaries, you made their Ministers Prime Ministers, you took them out, you took people from the army, you made them ministers, you brought them back again, you changed the Ministry, you re-established the Ministry, you closed, you opened. You don't know what's going on with you. You were ready, though. Mr Mitaraki, I think that at the moment the unscrupulous NGOs in Greece are shaking not to lose their jobs with what you have announced. The measures you have taken are terrible. Mr. Metarakis, you're fond of them. Tell the truth to the world because the truth is reflected in society every day. The truth isn't reflected in our papers here. Mr. Metarakis, the truth is not reflected here in the microphone in front of a television show or a theoretical reason. Truth is actually illustrated. And you know what the truth says, Mr. Metarakis, because you also mentioned amounts? Let me tell you, listen, you refer to the poor Greeks and you talk about billions of this issue, Mr Mitarakis. You told us today that it was less than 1.3 in 2019. Is that what you told us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u84	From 2015 until now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u85	I have 1,69 in my evidence. The Greek authorities take 794 million. The UN High Commissioner takes 506. The International Organisation for Migration 120 million. The European Asylum Service is 26 million. Millions, million-dollar parties! Listen a little, Mr Mitarakis, what reality is dictating and not what you are living for, which I am looking for to find. The people who voted for us and are experiencing these, they are and they are suffering. So we are told here, Mr. Vassilis Contellis, who is a broker, that whatever house the NGOs are renting. You know that? Put a protection key on people. It makes 300 euros home and rents it for 500-600. They take them ten to ten, twenty to twenty, thirty to thirty to put your buds in. That's right. NGOs are in the state. NGO Corona Awarness Team. Its members are all from Afghanistan. So the NGO, who came to offer our society here in Greece, is a great side of island. The district chief has sued, you know that too. They split the island in two. What are you doing about it? Turkish organization "Moria White Helmets", the White Helmets, Mr. Mitarakis, held photos showing next to the center of Moria - now listen, the Greeks, I don't know if you're interested in - cut olive trees, immigrants digging with space-forming machines. It's the new project on their new land. That's how they present it. Come here to acquire your new land. Do you hear that, Mitaraki's main partners? That's what they do. The company called "Moria White Helmets" and advertises them. Come here and get your land! New complaints: NGO Standard By M.Lesvos. "We are pleased to begin work with the Mytilini Firehouse. We provided them with the necessary equipment and helped them build a small shelter for their staff near Moria". NGO is helping our fire brigade. Do you understand? And now we're going to another topic, Mr. Metarakis, to the blue children. The President told you about the films and what happened before. The blue kids, Mr. Metarakis. With names and addresses, I'll talk to you about all of them. People who before the elections were defenders of Macedonia wanted to expel immigrants and of course with thirty silvers or thirty thousand euros a year have become your best employees. And I wonder how you've convinced your mayors as well, what you've given them. Tell us what you've given them. We had two hundred and thirty arrivals in Lesvos in May, from June 1, more than eighty with ninety, in three days. And you know very well, Minister, that in the next few years arrivals will grow from Evros and from here. Illegal immigration, Mr. Metarakis, is continuing properly. The investors, who we see every day outside the ATMs making their money, are on this phenomenon as well. Over the last few days in Moria, and not only do we have a barrage of increasing crime. They're entering homes with people, Minister. You know that. Theft of animals, the slaughter of animals, the animals, the living of the world. The fields are looting. They break churches, destroy crosses, anything that reminds of religion and Greece and Christianity destroys everything. Found hazzars, swords, knives, electric wheels and go by saying, circulating photos. Don't get over this. 'Yes, Mr Velopoulos, this is happening too, but we have a programme'. What's your schedule? Greece's disaster and Islamization programme? Is that the New Democracy program? You came to power, Mr. Mitarakis, to expel illegal immigrants who illegally invade our country. You're giving them a baby and you're patronizing them. You keep doing exactly what SYRIZA did. You put a cloak of blue on it, but you're blue SYRIZA, you're nothing more. One hundred and forty-five illegal immigrants, Mr. Mitarakis, live in Rhodes in an illegal structure in an archaeological site, because you told us how many people are registered. Others so many more - and if you are honest, admit it here - are those who are not registered and circulate right and left, shadows, steal, tear, rape, kill animals, destroy houses, everything. Residents in Rhodes, where these people live there, in the archaeological site next door, denounce that they are coming out, causing and "exploring" girls in the street, and not only, I say it in introductory form. And do your thing if one of them "dreams" your own child, what do we have to say, where do you know this is happening? I'm not telling you to just stay there. You should go for a walk to Thessaloniki. Come on, Mr. Mitaraki, walk the three-day Holy Spirit at the Monastery to see what happens every night. Come on, let's go for a walk to Mr. Bakoyannis' multi-awarded and renovated square in Omonia, Islamabad, see if he can step on a Greek foot there. Is this the Greece you've managed? For what we're describing here today, you're proud, Mr. Mitaraki, and you're out with a thousand cardinals to tell us what was right? That's why I'm telling you that you describe another Greece. We're seeing other things. Does the name Vassilis Nikiforou say anything to you, Mr. Mitaraki? He is Commander of the Key to the Municipality of Sintic in Serres. This gentleman took the lead in September last year against the structure in Rhodopolitan Sinticos, and now he was being commanded - they are not doing this! - with 3,000 euros. Let's go to another name, Dimitra Panayotakis, Commander of the structure in Serres. This lady, Mr Mitaraki, was a candidate for the New Democracy MEP in Serres with Kostas Karamanlis. Lefteris Avramopoulos, Commander Verea, an active member of the New Democracy. Mr Papaparisis, Mr Larissaeus, who was organizing talks about the Macedonian and played it and the Macedonian - great! - election. All at the battle of the vote, Mr Mitarakis, to make fun of and cheat on the Greek people. All these are now commanders of structures in Islamahoria, the Islam cities that you have created and eleven thousand two hundred and thirty-six since 1 June outside structures. You're proud of what you're doing. But tell us what these eleven thousand two hundred and thirty-six are going to do for so many months, so many months you've been giving them benefits, so many months you've been giving them health care, so many months you've had them in your face. What will these people do? I wish they'd find something to do! I don't care about it. I want them out of here. Mr Metarakis, as the Special Court of Human Rights provides and allows it. He's allowing it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. Don't tell me that Spain does it, because Morocco is its own region, and we have the Turks next door, and how we'll get them back. Let's get them back! We do not say that it is easy, however, to say that it is legal and apply it if you want to solve the problem. You are ready to destroy Greek tourism as well. I'm not going to Thrace with the new cases, I'm going to our islands. You see how many cases we have with all of them. You know what? I don't know what your friend and friend said, and I don't know what else it is, Mayor of Chios, that they don't stick a coronary because in the tents where they stay in the accommodations it blows and has no walls. I'm not staying in what was funny. If you want, I can testify to you in the Minutes until you do your dentistry. On my show, Mr. Carmandzis said they don't get stuck because there's a breeze in there and he laughed. They don't stick there! You see now that you have also put a bomb in tourism that suffers so much because of the coronary, but you continue. I hope I have described you in the context of the realistic situation in Greece. Now, if you keep denying it, then we'll have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much. Parliamentarian B1's North Athens Sector, Mr. Zoe Rapthi with New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the President of Greek Solution that we are making a violent turn of our society into multiculturalism and because of us there will not be a small Greek nation. But is that so? As it is known to effectively address the growing problem of the arrival of migrants in the country, which took place on SYRIZA, we have electorally committed ourselves to radically reviewing the political approach to this issue and we have set as basic priorities the effective preservation of maritime and land borders, the rapid asylum procedure, the immediate return of those who are not entitled to asylum, closed and controlled hospitality structures, as well as ensuring decent living conditions for those who remain in the country. What we have done so far has been analysed by the Minister. I am going to say the following: The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum implements our programme methodically, which we promised to Greek citizens in an election. We have seen that we have strengthened the guarding of the land borders in Evros. We have strengthened them not only since March, but since we took over by additional patrols, cameras, but also flying means in the area. We proceeded and proceeded with the fence in Evros and in a few months' time it will be a reality, as the Minister for Civil Protection said, Mr Chrysochoidis. We have also launched the recruitment of four hundred border guards and will take action in September. In the eastern Aegean, what we have done is that we have operated an integrated maritime surveillance system and the support of the port with new floating vessels at the donation of Greek shipowners, those floating means, for which I thank them from this point of view. We also strengthened the human potential by increasing the organic positions in the Port Authority so that today more than a hundred and fifty new members are and participate in the patrols. Following the events of March by decision of the KYSEA, which took place at the initiative of our Prime Minister, there was a visit to the Greek-Turkish border of the Presidents of the three European Councils, the European Commission and the European Parliament to see, in particular, the situation in Turkey and the immigration issue. The Government also called for the strengthening of the FRONTEX and RABIT forces with a view to safeguarding the European Union's external borders. The results of this policy are recorded in figures. Migration flows decreased both in Evros and in the islands. In particular, there was a decrease in April 2020 of 97.25% compared to April 2019. This figures are that 76 entered in April 2020 and 2,773 in April 2019. The same was done in May with a 91% reduction. In May 204, compared with 3,141 last year during SYRIZA's governance. Further, what we did here in the House. We have voted in favour of the legal framework to tighten the examination of asylum applications. In 2019 we had four thousand applications that were being examined, while in April 2020 sixteen thousand applications were examined on average per month and we move at the corresponding rate. Today we have a reduction in the time interval of the first-degree decision from an eighty-five days that is in twenty-five days. Furthermore, with regard to the immediate return of those who are not entitled to asylum, we have heard the Minister. Unfortunately, during SYRIZA governance, only a thousand eight hundred and twenty-six in four-and-a-half years, while we have a plan for ten thousand by the end of the year once the ban on coronary traffic has stopped. That is why we have compiled the list of safe countries so that they can return immediately from it those who entered illegally Greece. Also, because the numbers are always flawless witnesses of reality to know that more than a thousand deportations and voluntary returns have been made from January to today. We now go to the emphasis of the decongestion of our islands, which we had promised in the run-up to the election. From the outset we have stressed that we want to support local communities in practice. So, not only did we dismantle our islands with over thirteen thousand people, as the Minister said, who were taken from 1 January to the hinterland, but we also created those new closed guarded structures after exhausting dialogue that preceded the construction of these structures away from the urban fabric to close the old problematic facilities, which we all know about. With regard to the financial support of the municipalities - because this is how our own government intends to support these people - more than 12 million have been allocated to the beneficiary municipalities in total, that is to say, those municipalities that have within their administrative limits have these structures. Finally, in order to deal with the pandemic and in view of this, there is cooperation between the EGE and the Ministry, so that there are special self-limitation spaces, as well as strengthening health facilities, so as to address the issues of any coronary cases. In relation to non-governmental organisations, we have heard in detail that within the period 2015-2019 it was allocated to organisations of approximately 1.5 billion. What has our Government done so that this complete opacity and the management of these sums by the NGOs has ceased, which has been done unintentionally throughout SYRIZA's entire governance? It has established this electronic register in which - and I repeat - we have made it a prerequisite for registration in this register to register all natural persons, as well as all the sites that are active in those non-governmental organisations. So we prove in practice who wants transparency and public control and who is not. Finally, with regard to what SYRIZA has to say, at least in the media - we still have not heard his representative - on the issue essentially of the interruption of housing and financial aid, as the Minister has said this matter of interruption is essentially an issue that has been in operation since the time of SYRIZA. It's an exit program that's come into force. Already during the term of SYRIZA, two and a half thousand recognised refugees were removed from the program "ESTIA" and a total of ten thousand from housing. It is important that we do not have a selective memory, but instead that these people who are legally - and I say again, legally - entitled to stay in Greece as refugees should go smoothly and leave these structures. As a government, we will do what it will take to make a smooth transition to these people. Because these people have recognised rights under international law. And, yeah, we're not xenophobic. We're not racist. I don't know if you guys are. We, however, have a specific programme for the integration of these people. And the inclusion of these people will also take place with the use of the HELIOS programme, which has a total funding of 47 million euros, and with their inclusion in the social services, in the OAS registers and will take VAT, so that they can have safe access to the labour market, not all of them, but - I repeat - only those who are legally recognised, such as in all the countries of the world, refugees in our country. Finally, what we will ensure is that they also have access to those institutions that we have voted on, as is the minimum guaranteed income, as long as these needs are available. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with transparency to manage national and European resources to deal with refugee immigration. We are strengthening those social structures for this smooth integration, which I have said before. On the other hand, however, the country is obliged to guard its borders against any threat of the implementation of the immigration problem. And it is certain that we will use all the means we have in order to be able to achieve this at all times. It is our inalienable right to do so. And we will do it firmly and continuously with faith, with determination and with perseverance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt. We will continue with the B1' North Athens Sector and we will listen - since you are anxious - to SYRIZA spokesman Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that following the suggestion made by the Minister, which we have all heard with interest, we need to land in this Chamber in a difficult reality and restore a series of truths. He said the Minister that society sees the results of the New Democracy Government's policy. I'm afraid, Minister, you have another picture of reality. Because from the day following the elections of 7 July 2019 society sees and faces - and especially our islands - the consequences of a policy which was initially entangled in the embarrassment and idealisation that it had before the elections as opposition. It then had a sense of populist parity on all the issues relating to refugee and immigration. Then the Ministry of Migration Policy was abolished. It was experimented with several tools, which obviously were not able to deal with, as was the case with the European authorities. You have been forced again and fortunately - we recognise that, in other words, at least you have made your self-criticism, and the Prime Minister, on this issue - to re-introduce the Ministry and in recent months to try to do some decongestion, far too late, with very little effect. You said, Minister, there's been a fall in flow in the last two months. But the truth is that this reduction we have seen - and so it is, you are right about that - has cause, you know it very well, the pandemic. There was Lockdown in all transport, air transport in every communication. They had now closed the borders with the countries of origin and, because of the pandemic, with Turkey. It is therefore an image which I would say should not give you this assurance that your policy has brought you this result and in no way prejudges developments. You also said, Minister, that the European Union in recent years gave the non-governmental organisations in our country a precedent because - that is what I have never heard before - there was a lack of credibility in the then government of SYRIZA. The same goes on now. And it's not about who's every time in the government. It has to do with, Minister - and you know it very well - the logic and policy of the European Union, where it has a large majority of funding in all countries. Both to us and to Italy and to France and Spain, where there are issues of managing the migrant refugees are mainly allocated to non-governmental organisations. And that goes on. You also said that you do not understand why we did not vote for the amendment three months ago. There was a lot of talk at the time. In fact, I was again a parliamentary representative, so I have a full understanding of the debate at the time. You know very well that we have had a problem with a number of options that your amendment has had and, above all, with the reduction of six months, which was your legislation in autumn, in a month of residence of recognised refugees who have already taken refuge. And we warned you then, Minister, that what you are doing is wrong and will have humanitarian consequences. And, of course, this debate is very topical at the moment, because we have unfortunately seen in the past few days tragic images of thousands of people, families with young children, really in despair and on the road. Because the reality is - and here I would like to insist on this - that non-governmental organisations, apart from being a European option, do not come to take and use the Greek taxpayer's money. It is money that comes mainly from the European Union. They work together - and they are recognised - with international organisations, with the High Commissioner, with the European Union, of course, and with the Greek Government. If there is a problem with a non-governmental organisation, if there is a complaint or whatever, of course, the state, the State, the Ministry responsible, is responsible for making the relevant checks. However, there can be no arrest for non-governmental organisations which are recognized - most internationally - and which contribute, ladies and gentlemen, both in terms of managing this issue and in reception centres. I have own knowledge because I have visited in recent months and the corresponding center in Chios and Mytilini and I had gone to Kos, and I really saw people, young, scientists, who offer and come complementary to the Greek government. And this whole process began at the time of cooperation and at a time when we were still under the memoranda and as you know, there was a subject and a difficulty in recruitment. So for us the state has the main responsibility. That is why we set up the Ministry of Migration Policy and of course the government has the main responsibility to formulate and coordinate a policy within the framework of, of course, the European and humanitarian authorities, which I believe should be characterised by every democratic and political body, irrespective of the political and other differences we have. So targeting is wrong. Control is necessary. I would remind you that a register of non-governmental organisations existed in SYRIZA. We abolished it and reconstructed it. So there's no point in targeting right now. I would like to point out, because you said so, Minister, that you have a contradiction in your reason for clarifying it. On the one hand, you said you wanted to continue the decongestion of the islands. It's very positive and I wish you would, because so far it's getting too late. I should like to add that you should finally open up the relocation issue at European level, which, according to the Minister responsible, has not been officially raised by our country and by the wider European solidarity. At the same time, you say you will reduce reception and hosting centres in the country. This is very inconsistencies and contradiction. Also in the six months that you had predicted, and we followed up in order for there to be a smooth transition of support to these people through the OAED, through the possibility of learning Greek, through the possibility of opening up a small business through a social economy, getting a job, what my colleague Mrs Raptis of New Democracy has acknowledged, that is, a smooth integration, that you are dynamizing it when you get it in a month and you know that you're on the way. This ultimately does not only affect all humanitarian authorities, but comes to create images of despaired people and local communities, so even reflexes of xenophobia and maintenance to these people. So you need to rethink that. You need to reintroduce this semester of preparation and support and of course facilitate integration. I shall conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on a point of order. The refugee issue, the refugee crisis, migration flows are not a temporary phenomenon. It is a phenomenon and a crisis from the future, in a world that is changing violently, we have continuous geopolitical upheavals, wars and civil conflicts, we have authoritarian regimes and persecutions of people, we have climate change with what this will mean to people in the future. At the moment in Europe there is a great debate. And here, Minister, I turn to you, because that is the first issue that you have to deal with, deal with, have alliances and have results. It is the German Presidency which is starting now in June and September we will have two major issues: how will the debate on the recovery fund end and how will Dublin II be changed and reviewed? These are the two issues that are certain that the German Presidency wants to close down. So there's your challenge. Give the battle, there is substantial solidarity in Greece. It is not enough for us to be given money and become a storeroom of souls, nor for our islands to be ghettoised with closed centres. With respect to the principles of humanism and European principles, all Europe must take up a share of its responsibilities. There must be development support in the countries of origin, so that there is no need for these people to leave. And, of course, Turkey, the refugee issue and a new EU-Turkey agreement must be urgently raised, because it is not a bilateral issue, it is a purely European issue. And that is where you must fight and negotiate so that the European Union can take genuine responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. We're going to the Change Movement and I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Georgios Kamin, a Member of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Non-governmental organizations, then. I think the first non-governmental organization that currently operates in Greece is your Ministry, Minister, and I will explain why. First of all, because it is a ministry that is mostly made up of non-permanent civil servants, poster and contractors. You told us here days ago that by appointing the thirty-two hostile structures that the state was taking the case of structures into its hands. I'd say that's double false. It wasn't the state that took her. It was the party. Of the thirty two directors of the structures - accredited by Google - one third are officials of the New Democracy, candidates for MPs, regional councillors, municipal councillors, statemen of all kinds, etc. I imagine the rest of them will be. Is this the serious state, the modern state that the Prime Minister talked to us about in the programming statements, and we've been smacked in our ears for so long? Partitionism is not only limited to staffing structures but also to contracts. Once again, we have been informed that Mrs Stella Agrico takes the property assessment in Samos, Kos, Lesvos, Chios, Leros, EUR 18,000 for just two months' work, that is, EUR 9,000 per month. I don't know that lady. I know, however, that it was one of the thirty-five members of the New Democracy registry that Mr Mitsotakis presented to us in October 2017. In some ways, however, your ministry is also a NGOs. Why? Because the size and nature of its object is such that, in its day-to-day management, people with special know-how can only take it on board and such know-how are the non-governmental organisations. Of course, I am referring to the serious non-governmental organizations, which I believe is the majority. Among non-governmental organizations will have infiltrated fraudsters who occasionally ask to make money. This is happening everywhere. That is why we also supported the provision for the register of non-governmental organisations and voted against the provision that you had brought to us for the members, because it was written on the knee and you retrospectively came and corrected it. Of course, we need to evaluate non-governmental organisations and certification and know what they are doing, because they exercise public authority. Who has administrative support for hospitality structures? Who's giving it to the administrative staff? Technical support, psychological support? Non-governmental organizations. They continue to have a very important role in structures and the International Organisation for Migration and the Danish Council for Refugees. Who is responsible for child protection in camps? Non-governmental organizations. Unaccompanied housing? Non-governmental organizations. Semi-autonomous living units of sixteen years or more; Non-governmental organizations. Does this mean that we should hand over the administration of the country to the non-governmental organisations, which are private? Oh, no! The state must function in such a way that the experience and know-how which let us be able to store it and make it a property. And how was that so far? It was with a service that we must say that the National Centre for Social Solidarity, which was responsible for the state for unaccompanied minors, was responsible for this. And what did you do? The unique structure he had acquired know-how on this sensitive subject you took it out of the way, you made a General Secretariat within your Ministry of Retired Persons, and you exiled the President of the EKKA on resignation. Klathmos Square and the permanentity of civil servants were not only done to protect their dignity, it was done precisely for what we say, because governments are coming and going, but public administration must keep a memory, a deposit of experience and know-how. And you ignore that. Decongestion of the islands. Let's see how the islands get decongested. We then voted against the amendment that you were prosecuting recognised refugees to bring asylum seekers, not because we did not want asylum seekers to have a roof, but because we knew that these eleven thousand people would be on the road. They don't know Greek, most of them have no resources, and we didn't want our cities to be large outdoor camps again. I, as mayor of Athens, had the experience in 2015. Then what did we do? We broke the world, just so the city doesn't have a problem. Have you taken care of that? And at the moment, we see that nothing is going on. I, who have direct knowledge, know that from the two-seat apartments run by the Municipality of Athens and are able to accommodate two thousand people right now, are only two hundred. Both in the Municipality of Thessaloniki and the Municipality of Athens from the positions managed by the "Solidarity Now", about two thousand, have emptyd twenty places. So how are you going to do that? We're talking about ghetto. Nobody wants the ghettos. So that we do not have ghettos, and because we have the luxury to learn from those who have suffered the problems and paid them and paid them, we have to have a serious social integration policy. Because, or we will feed the world with fantasies that, from one day to the next, refugees will be depleted, or, if we want to be serious, we will be able to talk about how social inclusion will take place. A lot has been said about Malakasa and much has been written by the pro-government press. I do not understand the following: how a permanent structure can fall within the provisions designed to cover cases - I am talking about awards - through the negotiation process without prior publication. How is it possible for a permanent structure, which presupposes that the emergency, to fall within these provisions? And the non-negotiation process, according to L.4412/2016, must have the same body of delegation. Malakasa was assigned by the IMO to these procedures. You're a ministry and you've been outsourced. Are you sure you have followed the legal procedure in this regard? Here we will be in the next few months, and I'll see you. Be careful, Minister, do not make great expectations either to the inhabitants of the islands or to the public in the country on this matter. I advise you, because I don't want you to fail. I do not want you to fail, because you are dealing with a very serious issue and the role of counter-population is not to wish the government to fail, it is to help it not to fail or at least to prevent its mistakes. Do not make great expectations in the world, because it is not at all certain that you will be able to make returns to Turkey, I would say that the current situation precedes us. Deportations and other things have been seen for decades now, whether you can deport irregular immigrants to too many of the countries from which they come. And for reducing the flow, here we are to see them. I wish we had the best scenario, but because we cannot rule out the worst, we can look at being measured in our estimates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. The floor is for MP II Piraeus from Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakada.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, honestly listening to you, I thought I was really in another town, in another country. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has heard, he has referred to the unrestricted respect that the government has in local communities. Allow me to say that respect seemed absolutely in the way that the government has managed so far the refugee situation. We had the dissolution of the Ministry, reconstituted, a national coordinator who is missing - I have a long time to see him - and after he has been reconstructed by the Ministry in the portfolio undertaken by Mr Metarakis and what did we have? A few days ago an eviction of eleven thousand refugees. Where to? For the squares, for homeless structures? Honestly, no one knows and does not know whether these eleven thousand will be covered with others and where the ones who are now staying, who have already been driven into eviction. We also had several direct assignments. Last example was the direct assignment you made of the transcripts of your speeches and your interviews, Minister. Of course, in a magical way, as I mentioned in a question I tabled to you yesterday, direct awards remain below the limit of EUR 25 000 so that there is no need for a tender. What else did we have? Documents from international organisations, which express suspicions of various economic irregularities. For all this, you will respond to us in the context of parliamentary scrutiny. So neither respect for the local communities nor the Greek citizens, when you do not hear, as a government, what the local communities are asking for and you impose them the closed centres, instead of decongesting, as we ask from the beginning, inland transport, that those who can stay here and the rest can leave, go to other countries in Europe. This is because you do not have the political will to veto and force Europeans to take their share of the responsibility. In order to stay on the subject today, however, because today's issue is the non-governmental organizations - in my time I shall be presenting, at the same time, the position of Mera25 for them. First of all, let me remind you - because I have the "loxa" as a historian to go looking for historical evidence - that it is not a new term, it was created to render the term "NGO" to Greek and it is a term that was initially used in Article 71 of the UN Charter and nor are we talking about something new. There is, dating from at least 1839. In fact, it is estimated that in 1914 there were a thousand eighty - three non - government organizations. International non-governmental organisations have presented a project and were important for the anti-Slavery movement, the women's movement for the vote movement and were culminated during the World Conference on Disarmament. However, the non-governmental organisation became popular with the establishment of the UN in 1945, as I said, with the provisions of Article 71 of Chapter 10 of the Charter, trying to give an advisory role to organisations which are neither governments nor Member States. In fact, the definition of international NGOs is mentioned for the first time in Resolution 288 of the Economic and Social Council of 27 February 1950 and is defined as any international organisation not based on an international treaty. The vital role shown by these organisations is also mentioned in Chapter 27 of Agenda 21 and leads to strong arrangements for an advisory relationship between the United Nations and non-governmental organisations. Easily, one of these is the conclusion that the NGOs are coming to fill gaps which fails to cover a state and, in this case today's debate, the Greek state. Sometimes they operate as models of efficiency, self-sacrificiality and supply, sometimes not and at times they are exploited by the state to share resources in party and other "logues". Given the huge supply of many of them, it is not understood to treat non-governmental organisations as something by definition negative, nor can we act with taxation by condemning them all. We, as PARTA25, reject on the one hand the concept of State being replaced by non-governmental organisations and, on the other hand, the concept of non-governmental organisations being treated as pretext enemies, as something by definition suspected and problematic, as the parliamentary representation of the extreme right in Parliament, the Golden Dawn - which I hope is something that we all hope will not see again at Parliament's headquarters - and as it reproduces a host of government officials of equivalent ideological sympathies with repeated declarations. We fully understand that the NGO framework has been used by scientists, usually with interesting party backs, to dismantle Community and national resources, with many to set up such an organisation without offering or wanting to provide any work, but nevertheless manage to absorb huge resources that are deprived of by others aimed at improving the situation in the field and in the field of their action. We believe that the New Democracy has done everything it could to put an end to a specific audience that has been trained to see every initiative with suspicion and scepticism, an effort which is fully reflected in the punitive logic that it implies and the recent government provision of mapping any non-governmental organisation that is not governed by any organisational rationale of efficiency and transparency. The measure adopted by the government contains criteria which can have as a whole the exclusion of certain non-governmental organisations, which are doing an excellent job and which cover an unthinkable gap, at the same time as donating others, which are on paper perfectly but in fact non-existent, in addition to being prosperous in the absorption of funds with or without preconsent. A typical example of the organization that acts and has a positive effect is the hospitality structure of Lesvos. In the city of Mytilini, the "Allegis Lesvos" - former camps PIKPA - is a structure model for the oppressed people, which is maintained by the few dozens of locals with sacrificial solidarity. However, despite its work, and despite the support it is aware of by the local population, it has been completely devalued by the state and has not received any state support, in total contrast with other NGOs, who have a good external image but have no work. It is undoubtedly an absolute priority that each aspect of the functioning of non-governmental organisations should be interconnected with existing legislation on all issues. This is a priority unnecessarily, as is the need for transparency. But the demands that come out of this are a lot. For example, who will carry out the inspection? Will the government itself check on whether they are doing so properly? In what sense is something right from the sum of two failures? Who will check the connections and acquaintances of the owners of each NGOs? Will these ever be checked? It would be particularly important to have an image on this. As MERA25, we have tabled the framework of our proposals, the co-chairs of the co-chairmen and elected citizens, the DISCIP. As far as the NGOs are concerned, they could be controlled by the Justice Department, which would monitor the issues of legality and transparency in our proposal. We propose that this EPC be made up of ninety people, two thirds of whom are deputized and one/3 elected citizens, representatives of the parties, depending on their parliamentary power. In this way, with the majority participation of fellow citizens, it will be society that controls the initiatives of society. We are calling for the social control of NGOs, the only kind of control responsible to talk about those who promise to cure the tragic failures of the state. The dynamics of such initiatives that start from the base, that is, from the people, would be liberative, I can say, on a number of issues and not just today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. The reason for his denunciation is that the honourable Member, the Chief of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has been speaking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u97	Minister, I knew we had no ideological consensual. But I didn't know that we had no language consensual, that you don't understand what I'm saying. You came here and told us things I've never said in my life. You say that we are the only ones who do not want immigrants, refugees, illegal immigrants to leave the islands and react. No, Minister. You're wrong. We react to the logic of transferring them to mainland Greece. You can take them to uninhabited islands, to structures, not to have residents in the region, and send them to their countries. I guess you understand that now. I don't want you to repeat it, because a mistake called two or three times, can't be wrong. There's a lie. You also talked about 16% reduction in flow. Didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u98	16% of the stayers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u99	That's all I'm saying. How much flux did we have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u100	97% in April...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u101	Long live the coroner! You've got a coroner three months. Close all the borders of the world. The illegal immigrants will not come to me from Turkey now! I'll see you in a while. I wish we had 50% and 70% and 80% and 100%. To have this, however, you must listen to us. You say that sixteen thousand were transferred to the mainland. I ask: How many have you deported? You carried sixteen thousand. How many deportations were made? How many? I want a number. Don't say "four missions", as if they were missions in space. How many deportations were made? How many people left here? You say you want a limit of 1%. So I ask why in the bill you brought in here the other day, you were subsidising municipalities if they accept over 1% to 10% illegal immigrants, refugees? You gave them more money if they accept a 1% to 10% population change. Because we have not come here to fight and to make bullies and dudes, but to tell you what you are doing wrong and what you are doing wrong and to lead you to the right thing, I say: Did you say that you are seeking maximum transparency in the functioning of the NGOs - an excellent statement, I fully agree with you - but also with the people who work with them or cooperate with them, and I ask the Minister: How is it a non-governmental organisation, since he gives wages and has employees? You tell me. Do you have many non-governmental organizations to which the employees are paid? What kind of non-governmental charity is this when we have payroll? There is no taxation there, of course. Shall I also make my companies, Minister, non-governmental organisations not pay tax of EUR 470 000 a year and 1.3 million insurance contributions in seven years? May I? To make it a non-governmental organization and not pay anything, and it's over. Why should I pay taxes? Everybody make it the non-governmental organization. That is why I say that there are things that you probably did not understand well. I ask the Minister: How is asylum being considered? With the evidence they give you? With the identities they fly, the passports they smash? How do you examine it? I have an ID in front of me. It is a service note from the Immigration Directorate, which reads: "We know that at the expense of the alien with the following elements: Gender: Arren. Citizen of Morocco or Pakistan or Algeria. Surname: Nuagaa or Aziz or Bentayip. Name: Aziz or Nuka or Karim. Fathername: Tayebe or Tayip or Terim. Date: Aicha or Esa or Aiha or Aisa. Born: 8-7-1987 or 1-1-1974 or 8-7-1974. Passport No: If held.’ He doesn't own it. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Is that how you're going to charge asylum? There is, of course, one, ladies and gentlemen, that. That is, of course, to see the date not to blame you - yes, you are right, it is 2019, at the end of 2019. It's yours, enjoy it! But we're actually going. General, Minister of State, abhorrence. You came here, you read your text, and you did well, you said your opinions. But I personally did not understand what you said, honestly. What I asked you didn't answer. I want you to answer them. They're specific questions. You said strong Greece. And I ask, how powerful is a country that has lost the northern continent, the name Macedonia, which the Turks are smuggling in Turkey, going down, under Crete will it pierce the drill? That's why I'm talking about meeting political leaders, to decide that if they dare and go to twelve miles, six miles, two hundred miles, we'll sink the research ship or the drill. Tell everyone his point of view. I might be wrong. But our view is this: When they offend your national independence, you sink the ship, as Andreas Papandreou said, "Drop Hora". There's no other way. In order for the opponent, who has been provoking for decades, to understand that he has been dealing with a serious government with a serious country. Also - I'll say it right now - you're talking about decongestion of the islands because you're elected to Chios. It is understandable, because there is also the political pressure and the reasoning that they must leave the islands. Yes, but you're confusing mainland Greece, you're congested in mainland Greece. We dismantle the islands, congested mainland Greece. What for? And if you're also "mags" - in quotes this - open the border in northern Greece. Why don't you open them? Aren't your European friends leaving you all the carves just to store your souls in Greece? Uh, my Minister? Why don't you open the border? You have also put Skopje in the European Union - you are not saying no - since it is now a member - associated with the European Union. Get out of there and get out of there. Let's open the border for everyone to leave. But what do the Germans want? To have us in our souls, to give us spices, 5-10 euros, and to collect them all in here. Well, that's not what this is all about, Minister. Do that. The Minister will now tell me "international treaties, international conventions...". We are the only country to sign the international treaty. No other country in the world does. In other words, the Visegrad countries do not implement them. The Germans who have to take unaccompanied children, let them be mysterious twenty-seven years old, don't take them. Why? Why does Greece have to save and well what it signs to keep, even at the expense of, many times? I ask and repeat, because you said about Europe, that we are a European country, sorry, Minister, but where is Denmark? Mongolia? Denmark doesn't have an uninhabited island? Unless Denmark is in Mongolia and is not a European country. Go to an uninhabited island of all these people, put them there on an island, with their structures, human, decent, eating, drinking, yes, until they go to their countries. I won't say the unaccompanied. How much money, then, do we give, Minister - write this, please, too - for free medical care? Numbers I want to hear. The cost of the Police and Army, who pays for it, my Minister? The Greek. So don't tell me that's a little bit of money. The money I want you to tell me who it is. Also, because you are from Chios, if everyone else agrees, we have to give an indictment to the prosecution authorities so that people with the incidents there do not even persecute them now, because they are summoned to apology, to question the incidents. And as far as the police officers who sued the citizens and the citizens are concerned, we need to find a way to end this story. You did the wrong thing, beat the world, don't send them to the courts right now. They're mistakes. And now I'm closing up with our proposals. This is where the party begins, my Minister. Proposals. Don't you want any suggestions? That's nice. If it were a government, the Greek Solution since yesterday, tomorrow morning, would prohibit foreign exchange exports to third countries from refugees, illegal immigrants or immigrants. Many European countries do so. Why do they go to the well-known stores, get the 500 euros, send the 300 euros out. You're out of exchange, Minister. In economics, you're good. When you get 500 euros and you send them out, it means you have borrowed 500 euros to have them, because you print money, and you send them to Afghanistan and Pakistan. Prohibition, then! Write it down. Secondly, no tactical non-governmental organization with cash. Everything's gonna be done with cards. None of them! But you'll check them. I'm giving you suggestions. If you can't shut them down, I'm telling you what you can do. Not cash in the NGOs. Know what money's going on. Wall on Evros. I've been saying that for years. No fence for homes, for with the tantalum you cut him off and you pass underneath. Wall's normal. Low-voltage cables, as the Israelis did, as the Turks in Syria did, as the Americans did, as the Danes on their island did, made a special wall. You should go check it out and get information. Uninhabited islands, I said it. Loading to ships. If you do not like uninhabited islands, my Minister, we have too many empty ships that are not used. Put them in there. I'm not telling you it saves you well on uninhabited islands, because you have a strange perception. Bring the ships in properly. Also a sound warning system. I've told you for a very long time. Get to the Port sound warning system. There are low-cost systems that can help too much in push back. Restore court expulsion. You abolished it. Why, my Minister? Confiscations of cash and valuables. All the countries that arrest illegals to enter their country confiscate everything they have, mobile, etc. Take the phones to see who the slave traders are. Someone comes here, you arrest him, you control the sim card, where he got information, how he didn't come from. I'm just telling you things. That's not what you're doing either. Life in poachers. I was listening to Chrysochoid yesterday making a statement. You know what he said? That for those who're an asshole, it's better to increase the sentence. But we said it here a month ago that came a bill, and the Minister said other things, he can't do it. Now all of a sudden Chrysochoidis made a statement! National Guard and militia. We are telling you again, implement it, build it, because it is a difficult moment with Turkey, of course, it is going to be a very difficult time. Financial countermeasures against Turkey, my Minister? Turkish trucks come in, TIR Turkey, and they carry a bunch of products from Greece for Europe. Put duties on you, too, as the Turks put on us. In eight hundred European products Erdogan decided to put duties a week ago. Put duties on Turkish products, make life hard at least. They're causing us. Let's at least make life harder for them. I'm not saying we're going to make war, but you've got other economic countermeasures before you're really up against the war. But if we need to sink the ship, we'll sink the tanker, we'll sink and everything that violates the national sovereignty of the country. That means a strong country. Everything else is fairy tales. A sentence I made three months ago. A deal with Huffar, whom you left him, you left him, and you and everyone. Listen to sense. You are basically supporting Sarah, who is against the Greek positions. Greece supports the Saraj government, who is a friend of Turkey against Greece, instead of supporting Huffar with nails and teeth! And Haftar could accept, my Minister, hotspot in the north of Libya, as Moroccans and other countries did in Morocco to collect me out of deportations to all Africans. What is the Congolese doing five thousand miles away from coming to Greece from Istanbul, as some people call it? I am still calling it Istanbul, and I still insist on calling it Istanbul rather than Istanbul. They say they're coming from Istanbul. From Constantinople, five thousand kilometers are coming, Congo, Ethiopia. You may not say that, but your ministers say so. Look at it a little bit longer. Also, a demand for funds from the European Union. Use Article 32 of Geneva for who exactly is refugee though. Not all refugees, all the same, all the same. Push back. Article 33 of the Geneva Convention permits, in matters of safety, health or criminal law, to be regarded as dangerous. So you have the potions, Minister. The filters also exist with the Geneva Convention and with all international agreements. You're not peculiar. That's what bothers me. In conclusion, Minister, I will await the answers, although I will not receive them, because we have been talking about them from the very beginning. I'll say it again. The message of the next elections will be unique: Greece or Greece. And to understand what atrocious mistake you're making, if I was government at no Pakistani I wouldn't give asylum. And tell you why. It is the country that signed the agreement with Turkey, as a country hostile to Greece. There's a registered agreement. There are statements by their Prime Minister, there are statements by their ministers against Greece. It is the country that sent warships to the Aegean in common turbulent exercises and is the country where their pilots of F-16 fly over the Aegean Sea, with statements from the Pakistani Defence Minister. It's not possible to fill Greece with Pakistani, Afghans, when you don't know the quality of people. I don't mean if they're good people, if they're criminal evidence. So, my Minister, because the house of the hanger is not talking about rope, you chose to speak, I want you to think very seriously about what you are going to say. I want suggestions and answers to what I asked you. Do not start'slalom' with me. It's not skiing here, this is politics. Because I know you're good at skiing. So leave the skiing aside. Your Prime Minister knows, when the rally was being held, he went to Corinth and skied. We were fighting for Macedonia, and he skied in Corinth. So I say leave the slaloms and answer the substance. I'll say it straight away. Everyone has to leave our country. Our homeland is hungry, bankrupt, can't feed her children. We will first look at the Greeks, first of all, because otherwise you will make Greece Elladistan and we will strive for Greece to become our Greece again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much. The Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr. Notis Mitatakis, is called in Stepma for his dentistry. You've got ten minutes, Mr. Mitarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration is a challenge that has great difficulties and we have never hidden these difficulties. I presented to you in my prototype the draft government and the results of this project in 2020. The reduction of flows, the decongestion of the islands, the accelerated asylum process, the project to reduce structures within 2020 by sixty structures in mainland Greece. We're dismantling the islands. We're dismantling the whole country. But I am proud that Greece is a modern European country, which respects its international obligations. And, Mr Velopoulos, Greek foreign policy is based on the fact that our country is not a reformist force, it is a country whose foreign policy is based on the international law and the achievements of the country. We are fully respecting our international obligations, applying the asylum procedure fairly, we are now splitting up rapidly and effectively those who are, indeed, refugees. And there are refugees who are entitled to international protection, those who are illegally entering economic migrants, and those who are now under the new legislation are expected to be detained, after the final decision if there is a risk of fleeing, and their expulsion either in Turkey or in the country of origin, whether compulsory or voluntary. In my prototype, I referred to the real dimensions of immigration. 0.6% of residents in the country are currently citizens of third countries who have received a three-year right of residence as refugees. What people do not know is that the right to asylum is not lifelong, is re-examined every three years if the reasons continue to exist in the country from which they left for refugee status. 1% of the residents in the country are currently asylum seekers and we are looking faster at their asylums so that we do not experience the saturation of the structures that we have experienced in previous years. He said the Greek Parliamentary spokesman that we are in parallel universes and then said that the numbers are not telling the truth. When someone says that, you realize that we are in parallel universes. The question is who is here and who is elsewhere. You have spoken about the issue of reductions in flows, about actual numbers in recent months. I do not want you to say anything about the government, but by rendering everything to the coronary, you do not show respect for the men and women of the Armed Forces, the security bodies that fight against Evros every day - in March it was not the coronary, it was the Greek Police, the Army and the dam - as well as the men and women of the Port Authority who are at the sea all day and all night, at the sea borders of our country. If, then, you do not want to return the fall in the government, at least return it to those who are struggling every day. You have confirmed that, in essence, you do not want the islands to be decongested because you call it a transfer of problems. If we get a thousand people tomorrow from Moria, a thousand people from Chios, for you it's not a good thing, but it's, as you said, a transfer of problems. We do not want congestion on the islands, but we do not want congestion throughout Greece, so we have an integrated policy of exiting from the structures of those who are not entitled to residence and expulsion from the country of those who are not entitled to international protection in a faster way. You talked about massive deportations. You have probably not read well the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which has many positive elements. One very positive thing is that it recognises the obligation of the sovereign states to protect their borders, and that is also our own policy. But from there on it sets terms and conditions and these terms and conditions are that we apply as a country. SYRIZA spoke of the need to have more time in the structures of those who have made a final decision on international protection. But SYRIZA ignores or rather does not care about SYRIZA that such a proposal would lead to the need for more structures. And we do not want any more structures, we want sixty fewer structures in 2020. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou spoke of contradiction, but there is no contradiction. The way of dismantling the country is, firstly, by reducing the flows, secondly, at a speed in the asylum procedure without a discount on the quality of decisions, thirdly, by leaving the structures of those who are not entitled to residence and fourthly by leaving the country of those who are not entitled to international protection. Mr Kamines has returned to his favorite topics - we have discussed them many times - of the poster. In fact, we have twenty-fifths of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, one thousand six hundred total employees - I think - are 1.5% - whose term of office will expire at the end of December 2021. But you said - and I always listen with care, we are also short-sighted, as you know - that the management of immigration needs know-how and you said that the Ministry does not have any know-how which is to some extent true. We have two alternatives. One is to leave the keys to the NGOs - what you are evangelizing - and the second option is to build know-how at the Ministry, hiring permanent employees, hiring contractors, using people with knowledge and yes, Mr Kamin, using twenty-five people with specific know-how that have come to the Ministry to help. These are people who came from banks, the private sector, with studies and experience, who can at this difficult time in this transition that we need to make, help us. And you know what I'd say? Keep being strict about poster, say it in every speech of yours and at the same time viewing effectiveness. Because we put commander and deputy commander in the Asylum Service and three associates and from ten thousand decisions in the quarter we made thirty thousand decisions in the quarter, in the quarter that just ended. We put commander and deputy commander and three partners in the First Reception Service that manages ninety-eight structures and a hundred thousand stayers. And now we've been in charge of the structures, we've been able to put in command. SYRIZA, since 2016, has been talking about structures commanders and has been unable to do so, because he had no central agency to support it. We did it, too, thanks to the posters. In the technical service, we had a permanent engineer! It can't work a ministry. Unless you want us to give the keys to the NGOs. I don't want to. I believe that the Greek state must have a role and cooperation with NGOs is a good thing. But we have a responsibility. For the legal service, we had only one lawyer at the Ministry of Law Specialisation, and we get three posters for eighteen months, as in International Relations, we get two posters. The debate is now starting - the speakers have put it - on the new European asylum agreement. Don't we need experienced staff with know-how, as you said? Of course, whether this knowledge will stay at the Ministry is our work. I do not know whether hundreds of contractors who have been used or the NGOs who have been used in immigration management by the previous government by large local municipalities or migrant councils without any permanent staff have left know-how to their organisations. On the issue of allowances that Mr Velopoulos has spoken about, I will be in line with some of the points you have raised, and we have already announced that the grant of the allowance to applicants for cash asylum has been interrupted since September. It will only be on card and only for purchase of products on the Greek market. We've already announced this in our focus communication last week. And for the rights of asylum seekers, listen to what has happened so far. They were taken for about two years on average for an asylum application, the applicants for six months after the law they existed and were not cut for another six months. So for about three years. Now what do we want? In four months, on average, the asylum procedure has been completed, and in one month thereafter the benefits have been interrupted. So our country is not a desirable destination, for those who choose with financial incentives to enter our country and are not real refugees, and that is our basic design, but you do not hear it for the first time. I'm returning to issues that have been raised for the governors of the structures. I have said that it was particularly important for us to get the structures in under the supervision of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. Thirty-two people were selected from seven hundred fifty applicants. The twenty-three have a postgraduate degree, the two have doctorate, high-ranking executives, who came from the private sector or from the army or from the Security Body or governors, who already had experience in the administration of structures with the previous government. We have kept them, because our aim is not to select governors on political criteria, but to have - firstly - those who can face a difficult task, because the management of structures is not an easy task, and secondly, to be able to build bridges with local society. Mr. Kamine couldn't return to Malakasa. It's not just Malakasa. It's both Serres and Sintic. They are two structures which have been carried out in exactly the same way, using an urgent procedure for absolutely justified reasons and with the approval of the Court of Auditors for the procedure followed. You did not refer to the EADESY that you refer to in other speeches. EFSA's opinion on the recent bill has come out. I guess you've read it. Replying to Merra25 for transcripts, very facebook you see. The Ministry's answer is clear. Like all ministries, we have a process of transcripting and we pay fifty euros per interview. The amount you read is not the amount we pay. It is the maximum limit of the code, in which it cannot be exceeded. You have also referred to an international organisation report. I don't know who you're talking about. If you have any report from an international organization concerning our Ministry, please tell me to read it for me. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to deal with multiple fronts. I'm not hiding it. It is a difficult environment and it wants difficult decisions, in which you realise that we are not all in agreement. There is the fatigue of local societies from migration. Especially in the islands, because we are applying the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration, we have led to this congestion, but so that we can make refunds. You did not say that to the honourable Members, that is, you did not say that the reason on the islands is that we are applying the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration on Returns. There are, of course, different ideological approaches. There is an opposition logic, which has no say - opposition you are - to address the need to make difficult decisions. Every decision on immigration has side effects, but I don't hide it. There is also a strong reaction to those who do not want to change the current situation, those that NGOs want to manage EUR 1.3 billion, without the Greek State knowing procedures. I want to close with three issues. You have proposed to us from the Greek Solution - I listen carefully - the idea of transferring refugees and immigrants to uninhabited islands. I imagine you mean the asylum seekers, which are 100 thousand. I would like you to clarify in your dentext, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, if you are suggesting that we find a large island to put a hundred thousand asylum seekers - it will perhaps be one of the largest Aegean islands, if not the second largest one - and build a residential infrastructure for a hundred thousand people or maybe for more. If you think we have any flows, should we do it for a hundred and fifty thousand people on this island? So to create a population of one of the largest islands of the Aegean. What national consequences will the formation of this island have in the heart of the Aegean, instead of the dispersal that is taking place today? Of course, you understand what infrastructure we are talking about, what construction costs and especially how many years we need to build a new island that will have the population of Rhodes. I say it like that, so people can figure it out. How many thousands of police officers, doctors, nurses, asylum officers should we move, feed workers, cooks, build a power plant, desalination plant? Do you realize what you're suggesting? I think you don't understand it and that the island just sounds to your voters as a nice solution. You said boats. A hundred thousand asylum seekers want two hundred ships. We would be the world's largest shipowner at five million a day's cost to these ships. And where are you going to tie these two hundred ships, Mr. Velopole? Do you have a port that fits two hundred ships to go and tie them up?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u104	There's bigger ones. Are you going to put them in the kikes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u105	Do you think you'll have intermediation with Greek crew of two hundred ships with an average of five hundred people on each ship? If you get better, say it. Also, in terms of departures, the truth is that Greece cannot give lifelong pensions and lifelong benefits to those who are not entitled to it. The protection net, which exists for recognised refugees, must be equal to the protection net, which exists for all the citizens of that country, without discrimination. However, there are also specific mechanisms supporting this transition, such as the ELIOS programme. Those who are refugees and only those who are refugees have access to VRM, AMKA, to the labour market. They must now come out of founding and support themselves, as all of us do. One month is sufficient time when one prepares beforehand. Secondly, we should not just focus on departures, because some choose to ignore that the vacant posts that will be created will now help, not in years, to build islands and find ships for the decongestion of the islands. Today we must decongested the islands, not of time, and in this direction we are working with the High Commissioner and the International Organisation for Migration and other bodies. Thirdly, do not forget, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that for your days the departure of those recognised as refugees and the 2019 “ESTIA” programme and ministerial decisions provided for all this. Fourthly, for those who leave the structures, which have a final negative decision, there are now specific provisions for their detention in special pre-repeal centres with the new legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a difficult problem. With determination and plan, we regain control. Our objectives are clear: Reducing flows, limiting the impact of the crisis on local communities. I've given you specific figures for the decommissioning, for the departures, for the expulsions, for the returns. This is our strategy. We are facing the problem with determination, but we are a European country of law and I am very proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u108	Mrs. Bakada, there's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u109	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u110	Because I'm a good man, I'm gonna break the Rules of Procedure and give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much. I will need less than a minute, Mr President. Minister, I hope that, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, your partner, who will answer my question, will not respond to the irony you have answered. I don't see too much facebook. I have seen the contract in question, so I am waiting for your ministry's serious answer on this. You chose not to answer anything about the eviction. I'm just going to tell you by closing that I don't see too much facebook, I've just been a partner of ministers and I can know the prices and costs of such contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has been next for six minutes. Mr Heta, your Chief, I did not interrupt him because I did not want to risk any deletion of me, but I would ask you to keep the time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. Minister, you are unrepentant. Today we have given you a hand of help to get you out of the difficult position with so many important proposals and instead, you continue the asymmetrical lies against the Greek Solution and you are ironing us out. You don't get your lessons at all. The people will give it to you, though. You should know that, Mr. Metarakis. You cannot hide behind your lies and your irony. Mr Metarakis, since we started with the islands, I would like to tell you this because it is debated a lot in the New Democracy. You know, our ideas have passed. They're going to New Democracy and they're applying. So because we're good people, we tell you today what to do to get out of this problem, with which you're in trouble and screwed up. You went to the islands and told us things. Listen. Because you, too, are very gracious and very European - like the left here - and you want to save these hundred thousand people, you told us today this number, that there are hundreds of thousands of people here, first to scare ourselves. So you deserve us for everything we say. Do you intend, Mr. Mitarakis, to keep them here? You're gonna get anyone out of here? You told us that a hundred thousand people would take them to the islands. Are we all right? A hundred thousand people are keeping him here? Aren't you going to kick anyone out? Are you so humanist now? A hundred thousand we're going to take them on an island, and it's going to be Islamic. No, make all Greece like this, fill it with Islamachoria. There are islands ready, Mr. Metarakis: Macronissos, Yaros. Because I am sure the leftists are very humanist - humanists - they will accept it, they will live there for a month, a half and a, until the process is over and we will send them back. Not to make them all residents of Greece, we will not do 'Helledistan'. Ready structures are there, Mr. Metarakis. Do you know how many thousands can be absorbed there? Why don't you do it? "Who will take care of these people?" Who? NGO! Package the NGOs, on the islands, on the uninhabited islands, on the islands of Jaro, on the Macronissos and on a couple of rock islands, and the NGO, the merciful ones, all of them, will be able to operate there and offer the valuable help. "Who will pay?" Mr. Metarakis? The European Union, your friends, the Europeans, the funds it sends you every month. So instead of doing it, you can do it all over Greece and the islands, do it there. Why don't you do it there? No problem. That goes too. Mr. Metarakis, you know, all these measures are dissuasive. Because the Congolese refugee will know - we have learned from you today that the Congolese is a refugee, because within 100 000 there are Congolese, Afghans, Pakistanis, Nigerians! - that if he comes here he's going to stay on the inhabited island, he won't be paid by Metarakis 500 euros a month or by card, or by card. Because we said all NGO money through cards. You will answer what we ask you and not what you want. Unless we say things that you don't understand. We'll repeat it again. We say: no euros through the NGOs. Only with cards, plastic money. That's how it's going to be checked. We are not talking about the Congolese refugees and the Nigerians, who are here - the illegal immigrants - who are still paying them and admitted that even so you are giving them EUR 500 a month. You said that too, Mr. Metarakis! So we should be careful what we say. We, then, say that these people must leave and until these hundred thousand left - which you said so and we creeped down - they must go to uninhabited islands. We called it when they were ten thousand, Mr Mitaraki, we called it back from the time it was twenty thousand, and they became thirty thousand, fifty, sixty, a hundred, we welcomed them, ever since we called it. Uninhabited islands! You say: 'What are you talking about?' What are we talking about? What do you say, Mr. Metarakis? We're talking about what we live. We are not, Ms. Raptus, xenophobics, as you have told us, nor racists. We are neither xenophobic nor racist! Can I tell you something else? If people who are interested in their homeland, if the people who want to maintain national cohesion, who want to keep the Greek safe, who want to expel those who illegally invade their country, are racist and xenophobic, yes, we are xenophobic. What can I tell you? Is that what we are, racists? You are racist, Mrs Rapti, all of you racist against the Greeks. Why do you give "get and water" to them and have the Greek poor. You've devastated him forty-seven years, you've been drinking his blood, you've bankrupt the country, you've thrown his children away, you've led him to suicide, and you've told us racists. You're doing something wrong. If you are so interested in all these illegal immigrants here, give them AMKA, give them AMMF, as you said before joining them smoothly, to become a normal member of society. We don't care about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u114	Illegal immigrants? Is that what we said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u115	All of them. Do you know who's illegal immigrants and who's legal? Here you don't know what's going on, who you're catching and who you're leaving. Six names had the man described by the President of Greek Solution earlier, twelve dates of birth and one identity. So, these in three years, will you consider them again, see if they have the right to asylum, to get them back? Are we serious? Now you don't know what's going on. Mr Metarakis, a modern European country - you said - is Greece, for which you are proud, which respects its commitments to Europe. Does Europe respect its commitments to us? Mr Metarakis, I do not see any Europe respecting us. I see a Europe that guards its own point, has closed its borders and has no flea on its crust. He's made a soul storehouse in Greece. "Take money and play." What Europe are you proud of? We are interested in Greece being a modern country, a member of the European Union, but also being a Greek country, Mr Mitarakis. To remain Greek. I do not want to be European, to be the same as others, with thirty nations different. Greece must remain Greek and Europe respects Greece, as our country respects its commitments towards them. You referred to the Security Body. We've wept, Mr. Mitaraki. Because you govern and we do not govern, if you are so interested in the Security Body that you give them a bonus for the wrestling they did - the Greek Police and the Greek Armed Forces up there - and do not play with these people, who have them with 800 and 900 euros, to beat them each ball and send them out of the hole for a life. Today, please call on you - who have been abandoned - the Security Bodies and the Armed Forces. As you call on the applause in the balconies, Mr Mitaraki, medical staff and nurses. Sixteen thousand nurses and doctors are in the air. We applauded them for forty, sixty days with the epidemic and Mr. Chiodra, and now we've given up on them. We don't care. On the way! Is this the social person of your government? Do you use them for buffalo one more time? So you won't lie to us. Because you kept lying, the Greek Solution still doesn't want the islands, the decongestion. Listen, let's end this. You're an unrepentant liar, if you keep saying that. I want to talk to you properly. A party president came here and presented you with fifteen concrete measures - proposals which are practicable. Take note of the serious attitude that we are holding, Mr. Metarakis, and stop lying. In conclusion, I should like to say that at the moment SYRIZA is not represented by anyone here. On a huge subject that concerns our country, SYRIZA is not here. He's gone! It was, however, here and the parliamentary representative spoke. The JRC - I hope everyone is well in their health - is not here. The JRC was not represented today. It's awesome! As far as we are concerned, we must not forget that there is a need for a common foreign and security policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common The JRC isn't here. SYRIZA isn't here. I will say this for Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, to end the story and understand what is happening. Because illegal immigrants, Mr Mitaraki, are paid by the Greek people, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou does not pay them - I would say if you were here - or the European Union, which you have made sure that you are clear and tell us. This story has got to stop. Because we speak with deeds and evidence, I'll tell you something. It is the answer of the Ministry of National Defence, in question by Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, on the creation of structures and the purchase of Kypis Kypis, these boxings that will stay within the islands. The majority of diagnostic procedures were performed by a concise tender. Fifty-five companies with a total contractual budget of EUR 3,240,000 were included, while EUR 1,300 000 of financing was covered by contracts. I mean, the rest of the two million we paid for, the suckers, Mr. Mitaraki. We are!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much. The Minister will close the debate. However, I should like to give Mrs Rapti a minute, because her name has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u117	Just one place, Mr President, because the Greek Parliamentary spokesman distorts my words, saying that we wish to incorporate all illegal immigrants into the country and integrate them into the structures that are supported by the Greek state. It is clear that this has not been said. It is also obvious that, when we talk about accession, we are only talking about those who are legitimate refugees in the country, they have been recognised as such by the asylum service and therefore, by serving all our international obligations under the conventions, which also result from human rights, it is clear that we are joining and we believe that these people must join. If the Greek Solution believes that even these people should not join, then it is obvious that they do not respect the obligations that the country has from all international treaties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u118	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. The denology of the government representative of the Greek Solution confirmed, thank God, that we are in parallel universe. We're not the same. That is positive and pleasant. I understand and respect your passion, there is no reason to be personally rude when you refer to colleagues. It's not nice. We shall now proceed to the point. We agree on the need to reduce flows. We agree on the need to deport those who are not entitled to international protection. That is the position of the government long before the elections. I hope that we agree to create closed structures for the protection of both residents and local society. You have not mentioned the issue of closed structures. I would like you to mention sometime. We have a specific problem at the moment already existing on our islands. There was a 16% decongestion, we still have thirty-two thousand staying. We have accelerated the asylum procedure, many of them will leave behind for Turkey, some will be recognised as refugees, but you realise that there is a problem on the islands. That is why the islands' extraordinary problem, because as you keep the flows low, this problem is solved in the next few months, even if you have tensions at sea, and the situation we have today is two solutions. The solution to transfer some who, more likely than their profile, may have a refugee right or are vulnerable to structures in Continental Greece, or to design an inappropriate plan of the coming years for islands and ships, which, in fact, you know what it is doing? He keeps people on the islands. Unfortunately, there are few in the islands, who think that the refugee problem can be solved otherwise. I think you've confused the concepts. The hundred thousand are the ones who are in our country right now, they have not been identified and they have made a request. One may not be identified, few may be identified, many may be identified. There is an asylum procedure. The state has an obligation and responsibility from the international treaties, these people being in a safe space. At the moment, what we do is reduce structures in mainland Greece so that the islands can be dismantled. We are doing this by leaving the structures of those who are no longer entitled to stay and by deporting those who are not entitled to stay in the country. That's the thing about structures right now. The structures are just for them, they are asylum seekers. So when I asked you whether you were proposing the creation of an island of 100 000 people, I mean those who have not yet answered the asylum request, because when we respond to the asylum request, things are clear. Those who have a refugee profile have the right to stay, take travel documents, there is European legislation on this. Those who are not entitled to stay, this government will return them. So the problem is what you're doing with the applicants. So the solution of an island of 100 thousand people has national implications? I asked you, you didn't answer. Takeing ships and tie them up somewhere, do you think it's possible, with 5 million a day, that'll take so many ships? We're talking about absurd numbers, and it's impossible to manage them, and it's impossible to tie up these ships. I don't think you think it'll be two hundred ships tied to an anchor in the deep Aegean Sea. At some point, the suggestions are good not to be made as a slogan. You know the chip sells on TV, but the essence here is to say something serious and solve a problem. I also gave you the opportunity to say thank you to the men and women of the Armed Forces and the Security and Port Authority for the work they do at the border. You chose to talk about benefits, about doctors, all you said is serious, but you need to recognize that there is a border job and that job somewhere is due. It's not that everything - as you go, level it up - stopped by the pandemic. At the beginning of March - I remind you - two hundred thousand people tried to enter our country. They didn't stop because of pandemic. They stopped because at the border there were men and women of the Armed Forces of the Security Corps determined to protect our country's borders. I close, saying that it is a problem, which requires a European solution. Greece is at the forefront of negotiating an agreement in the European Union, which will at least include a mandatory mechanism for a fair distribution of the burdens of the migratory crisis and a return mechanism, common European refunds. Greece is the first in this debate in Europe and we have tabled a proposal to that effect so that Europe, which maintains diplomatic, economic and trade relations with all the countries of the world, is in a much better position than each individual Member State - Greece, Malta, Cyprus, to return third-country nationals who have been deemed to be not entitled to international protection. Finally - and very importantly - the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, on the one hand, to be respected by Turkey and, on the other hand, not to stress our maritime and land borders again, and, on the other hand, to change in a way that does not lead to congestion in the islands of asylum seekers who must ultimately stay there because of the SYRIZA agreement, ladies and gentlemen, until they get their final answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at number 17/3-320, on the subject of 'NGO action - NGO funding from the Greek State'. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-05-S1-commons.u121	With the agreement of the House at 13.55 p.m. the sitting is closed for Tuesday, 9 June 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you. Thank you very much, everyone. Good three days, I wish the Holy Spirit will illuminate us all, be well.
