ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Under the Minamata Convention on Mercury'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. First of all, I imagine there's an agreement on the introductory part. From the Minutes before me, I can see that the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Mer25 have been voted for. The JRC voted "the present" and the Greek Solution was reserved for its place in plenary. Therefore, we will start with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece who has voted 'the present'. It will be followed by the special speaker from the Greek Solution that was reserved for place in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would also like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u3	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u4	And then Mr. Famelos and Mr. Loverdos will be given the floor. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that this convention is another typical example of how serious issues such as mercury pollution in this case are exploited to the unrelenting global monopolistic competition that exists between countries and business groups, namely how strong capitalist countries impose their terms on others, and how they temporarily regulate competitive relations with compromises as usual very fragile. In recent years this fierce competition has been unfolding in the field of the environment and in the name of its protection. The new major investment idea of capital is called 'green growth' or 'green deal', etc. However, whatever compromises are made between imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries, as much as conditions and conventions such as today, and if they sign one another, neither do they really want to address the increased environmental problems caused by the capitalist development path itself, since it is in the nature of dealing with the environment as a means of increasing the profitability of business groups, plundering natural resources and destroying them not only with their uncontrolled pumping but also with the imperialist wars in which they are objectively leading. Thus, despite the evolution of science, despite the development of the technique that currently guarantees effective security and environmental protection measures, the development of productive forces in capitalism is the result of an incentive to business profit, for which, of course, every long-term and even short-term prediction of the environment is ultimately sacrificed, when this requires the profit rate. Therefore, the 'green technologies', the so-called 'green economy', which are promoted in the name of the environment, are primarily aimed at opening up new investment areas in monopolies for large and fast profits, in the JRC's view. Here is the European Union's real incentive to retain its own business groups in competition with the United States, Russia and China, especially in the field of so-called 'green development', where the European Union of course also has the relevant advantage, having precedent for the development of such technologies. All this also relates to the Minamata Convention on Mercury, a very dangerous metal for human health. It is not an exaggeration here, Mr President, to say that hypocrisy is one of the main components of this convention, as is the case with other contents. First, it leaves not a few windows for the developed capitalist countries and their large businesses, of course, in terms of their interest in the management of mercury, unlike the weakest countries for which its rigour is exhausted. It is also intended to contaminate fish. Except that the tears here are crocodile, since it is known what anarchy and uncontrolled way the fish farming industry is developing around the world, because it is precisely this development that is being made in terms of capitalist profit, trampling every concept of environmental concern. See people's reactions around the world to any such investment near their homes and shores. And after all, if the objective alone and genuinely were to combat the dangerous indeed pollution caused by mercury, there would not only be penalties and penalties again within this convention but provision would also be made for measures to free and, above all, for the cheap disposal in all the countries of the new technologies and materials, which can, of course, replace the relevant mercury products, such as dental amalgams for seals with much more expensive resins and for other uses, and not these new materials, to remain unavailable, particularly for poor countries, and to be fortified behind the contents of multinational patents. To conclude, for all these reasons, we are voting 'at present' in this Convention, while we are voting against the second article of this Convention which defines the Independent Public Revenue Authority - from where and to where extent - as the body responsible for implementing this Convention in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. So let us finish, as we have said, the procedure and then the parliamentary representatives who have asked for the floor will speak. From the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u7	I'm gonna need seven to eight minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Villard, the Rules of Procedure are clear. It's five minutes. But anyway, because we have no more bills after that, there will be a relative tolerance. But don't overdo it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. No, I'm not overdoing it. Alas. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The report's assessment of the consequences of the bill states that there is no use of mercury in the Greek chemical industry, while the only application affected is in dentistry for amalgams and tooth seals. However, after a little research of our own, we found cases of mercury in Greece, which should be of serious concern to us. In particular, there have been numerous large amounts of mercury stored illegally in Aspropyrgos on several occasions. In 2017, some ninety-eight tonnes from German waste management companies and in 2014 also from Germany fifty-six tonnes of waste management. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it seems that our 'principal' partner, the country of fraud, on the basis of the pollution scandal in its car industry, the laundering of black money and so on, does not only use us as a'storage' of migrants, but also of dangerous waste, and it is now bringing us a convention - allegedly - on mercury, but, knowing that this trafficking is a very big profit. This has happened since the Treaty was signed by Greece and Germany on 10-20-2013, and we should be very concerned about the waste and recycling management sector that is currently developing in Greece. We must stress here that in 2015 the New Democracy and in 2017 SYRIZA ruled, yet another proof that there is no difference between them. Interestingly, in an accident in Hungary in 2010, where red mud was released from the installations of an aluminium factory, five hundred pounds of mercury were found. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Interestingly, because red mud is ejected from the "Aluminium of Greece", which leads to the Corinthian Gulf, with a significant impact on its marine population. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is logical, therefore, that it should be investigated whether there are quantities of mercury there, whether the fish are affected, or whether it is related to the recent meadow flare, unless, of course, the "Mytilian Business Group" is unavoidable. According to the study of the environmental impacts of "Greek Gold", on the lands of mines in Skouria there is mercury, in quantities ranging from one milligram to eighteen milligrams per kilogram, but without being a matter of concern, unless they are released into the atmosphere - which is very likely - or are driven to the watercourse - also, very likely - it should be explored. In addition to the above, we do not know whether mercury can appear or appear in other mineral extraction or treatment processes. The metallurgy sector is, however, very important for Greece, and the consequences of the current Convention should be investigated, as well as any financial burdens, if measures are imposed on the basis of the Treaty. Of course, in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State and the report on impact assessment, there is no such need, although we are doubtful. And we stress again, how important the mining industries, metallurgy and chemicals are, since our country has great mineral resources, according to the 2018 annual report. The total volume of the mining sector was EUR 1.8 billion in 2016 from 2.5 billion in 2009, while the contribution of the added value of the industry amounts to 2.9% of industry and 0.4% of GDP, supporting 12 000 jobs directly and hundreds of eight thousand indirectly, according to IOE's assessment, including electricity production. Since its total concern for the province, it is very important for sensitive local communities, offering good and stable jobs, directly, with multiplier benefits. In any case, Greece's mineral wealth is national, but to a significant extent untapped. According to the professor of the Department of Geology at the University of Thessaloniki, Mr.Philipidis, the value of our country's mineral wealth is estimated at 2.4 trillion euros, whereas according to the President of the Department of Geology of the University of Thessaloniki, Professor Vavelides, in Northeastern Halkidiki there are hundreds of sixty tons of gold, two thousand tons of silver, almost one and a half tons of lead and zinc and over one million tons of copper. I'm filing it in the Minutes. According to the professor of metallurgy of the Metsovio Polytechnics Mr.Paspaliaris, only in Northern Greece there are mature deposits of gold, zinc and lead, worth about 18 billion euros. Greece also has nickel, which is an important part of its national wealth and exports, and is now wanted and rare material for the construction of batteries of electric cars. According to YPEKA, our country ranks in the second place of the European Union in the production of nickel and in the eighteenth world. In this context, the fragmentation of LARCO and the start of its laundering efforts, as usual by Mr Hatzidakis, who has a great deal of experience in the sector, is a company with 7% of the European nickel sales market and 2% to 3% worldwide, while it is one of the few companies in the sector with its own ore sources, is at least a suspect, which we will not leave as a party to the necessary actions. Of course, the known fines imposed by the European Union for the sale, as was the case with OLYMPIAKI in the past, 'TRAINOSE', PPC as regards the payments of pollutants and NOMEs and so on. However, the fine was imposed on ‘LARCO’ following an investigation initiated by the European Commission in 2013, immediately after ‘LARCO’ was led to the GOI in 2012 during the memorandum period. In our view, it is only accidental, while the final decision was adopted at the end of 2017. However, in relation to the Minimata Treaty, its effects on the production of chemicals and products in our country, where it approached in 2016 the EUR 2.2 billion of which is about 40% exported. In conclusion, the following basic questions arise in relation to the Treaty which should be answered before it is ratified. Firstly, should the consequences of the Treaty on our own industries be examined more carefully in the future? Secondly, are there any measurements on the cases that we have mentioned, namely, the Squirrels, the 'ALUMINION OF GREECE', for natural gas facilities, for lignite plants and the waste sent to us by Germany? Third, are there any measurements of any amounts of methyl zinc at sea? At least those involved in fisheries, food, aquaculture, etc. should know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u10	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u11	What? The methyl mercury?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u12	I didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u13	Mercury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member of Parliament, Mr Spelion Lebanese, is requesting a two-day absence abroad from 18 to 20 February 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u15	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Well, the Minister should normally take the floor and close, but because they have asked for two colleagues and two parliamentary representatives to speak, and anyway, there is time, we will do the following. So we will go backwards, in other words: I will ask Mr Gregoriadis, first of all if he wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u16	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u17	With Mr. Heta, I've come to an agreement. The President of the Party, Mr Velopoulos, will take the floor. Then we will go to Mr. Loverdos, to Mr. Fömello and to Mr. Lebanese, and you will close, Minister, because I feel that there will be some incidental issues, so you may have to answer on the part of the government as a whole. The President of Greece, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor. Mr President, the Rules of Procedure say five minutes and so that we do not "fight" - the word - I give you ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u19	I hope it will be observed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u20	It will be observed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, many times I am sad, why is my friend, Andreas Loverdes, saying to me: 'Here again?' My man, if you listened in 2007, in 2008, in 2009 and previous governments, we would have made an extraction of natural gas and oil. I've been yelling for the minerals ever since. And I didn't call it random, Andrea. Because, if we read our history a little bit, we will understand how important our country is to the level of minerals. I'll give an example. The river Echodoros in Thessaloniki was called in ancient Echodoros. If you read Pausanias a little, you will see why they called him Echoro: 'The presents have them'. What is the gift of the river Eedorus, the current French river? He brought gold. The gift was gold, and that's why the French set up a camp there, and the river was called French because they extracted gold. We don't need much brains, friends and friends, to understand that a left truly, Batsi, ate him in 1952, if you remember well, the leftists, because you forget, you have a short memory of most fake lefters - because he wrote the "Various Industry in Greece" about the mineral wealth of Greece. They ate him, took him out of the way, because I wanted, a Greece always, friends and friends, which is controlled, subordinate and really, non-independent. They wanted her addicted, and that's a reality. I could say about Batsi's book, which I read very carefully, "Vary Industry of Greece" - read it, decades before it was written, it was not written now - which said about the huge reserves of mineral wealth that Greece has. In 1952 he was eaten. Before he wrote these in 1947. It happened in 1947? In 1945-1949 we had a civil war or whatever everyone calls it, so that some are not misunderstood. I am saying all this because unfortunately in this Parliament for decades we have been trying to undermine the country's enormous value at the level of mineral wealth. On 10 January 2011, in one of my many speeches in the Greek Parliament I said: ‘We have a mineral wealth of many billions of euros. I'm delivering cards from the Houston Geological Institute. Greece may for a hundred years give natural gas to Europe." It's one of the minutes of the House, what I'm reading. 'Get an Exclusive Economic Zone'. I told the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, then. He's a minister again. Anyway, you haven't done anything yet. Exclusive letter to New Democracy from a Norwegian company - I reveal it here - 2011: 'Give us', the Norwegians say, 'the possibility of doing oil research for free'. Letter from the known Norwegian company. I also tabled a digital record with statements by Constantine Karamanlis I, that there is uranium in Serres Prefecture, to create an independent nuclear plant. A 1957 statement, 1958, somewhere there. I am presenting in the Minutes the Kisinger and Standard OIL talk - practically from the States Department - here in the Parliament in 2011, that Greece should not take out the oil. I'm not a conspiracy officer. I will submit to the Minutes the previous ones I mentioned along with a digital record, because they are all my talks since 2007, and then about the oil and mineral wealth of the country. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents as well as a digital record, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Professor Filipidis spoke at the radio station 'Act 104.9'. It's not a conspiracy radio. It is known as the "Administrator". He said that the value of mineral wealth is estimated at 2.4 trillion euros, and even said that from all of this mineral wealth, Greece is using 0,15%. Listen to the numbers to understand. I'm not talking about it. I am referring to a professor who is in geology, who is an expert on these issues. Of course, he said: "It is amazing, because Greece is very small in scope, but on the ground too, that is, it is very small as a country". Of course, governments did not think logically from 1974 onwards. I want to be clear, ladies and gentlemen. The only one who dared to extract gas, unfortunately, was the Hunting Papadopoulos. It started in 1972, there are his FLOs, but the pigeon, the dictator, made a certain mistake. The dictator announced gas extraction - I can present them to anyone he wants - to drachmas and that ate. Some may get misunderstood, angry, but historical truth is historical. No matter how shameful and stinking the junta and the land are for seven years - and we will agree on that, because it is an anti-democratic regime - we must say, however, why the next democratic governments have been silent. Because they've been telling us since 1974 that Prinos has no gas and oil. And yet, until now, Prinos has made oil. Until today, he's making oil. Even now it's making oil. I repeat, because many here are civil servants, know one thing, that if we took the minerals out of our country, Mr. Colleague, Greece would be rich. We never made it. You made a fight for the gold. You shut up, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You fought, you ran, you fooled the world in Halkidiki, you gave three thousand acres along with Mrs Sakellaropoulou, you also made it President. Gold is a very important metal for all of Greece, but most of all, Greece doesn't get any money. You gave a private company the enormous wealth of Halkidiki and unfortunately both the New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA did nothing to bring Greece benefits, not only workers as slaves, but benefits and goodwill. Let me tell you another thing: Minerals, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just their economic benefit. It is also the economic power of a country. When a country has gas and oil or mineral wealth, it gains geoeconomic power. It is not just its economic benefit, but also its position in the wider, if you like, geo-economic map of a region. Greece, beyond its geography, beyond its mineral wealth, has a great weakness: the lack of political will to design all of us together, to sit and see what happens to our country's mineral wealth. Because from 1974 until today, we have done nothing to draw from the country, with care of the environment, the reserves that are available to give our children, our grandchildren, because they are many unemployed children who have no work and receive 400 euros a month. With 2.4 trillions, I imagine, everyone could eat bread, all Greeks and their children and grandchildren. I will only tell you about the north-east of Halkidiki what Professor Babelides says: "It is ready for a hundred sixty tons of gold to get them tomorrow morning, two thousand tons of silver, one and a half million tons of lead, one million tons of copper." He was awarded by the Athens Academy. It says so. Who knows the ring in here? I said it in 2008 about the rhino. I thought everyone was talking about the Rhine River. Another rhino and another Rhine. Because the ring is one of the materials that each cell phone needs. Greece has huge deposits of rhinium in areas of Thrace, four to five regions. Rhenium: That's what it's called. It is used in superalloys in the manufacture of high precision thermometers and car catalysts. Without the ring, there's no catalyst. Greece has it, and while it has it, no government - neither SYRIZA, nor the New Democracy, nor the PASOK - did so in order to get this mineral out of the country's territory - with care to the environment, I repeat - so that the economy can move. What I want to tell you is something that I meet on the street every day. I do not know why, since 1974, PASOK, New Democracy or SYRIZA - all right, four and a half years, you have been five years anyway, I cannot give you the great responsibilities - sixty years we have done nothing. If that's not called a deceit, I can say it's called incompetence. One or another - I will say it again - is dangerous for the country. Whether you're incapable or have deceit and don't take it off, you're dangerous. If, therefore, Mr Loverdo, my dear Andreas, since 2007, 2009, the process of demarcation of the EOZ began, which I was saying here and everyone laughed at me - they are not the neo-democrats today, they are again missing, anyway they are, they are ruling by their absence most - if that government of Constantine Karamanlis listened to me and we started demarcation of the EOZ and said that we would make gas, we would have made gas in 2011, 2012. You're late. I don't know if you've been late because you've been mandated, but I know, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you didn't ask for it. You did not say 'we were wrong'. Because there was a guy back there yelling: “Greece has oil. Greece has natural gas. Give geo-economic power to the country." I put you documents, put you studies of whole and envelopes from the Houston Geological Institute. I was telling you about the country's minerals. I was telling you about the osmium in Imia. I couldn't get it out of my head. There were records of literature. You just wanted to deceive the country, you and PASOK, led it to bankruptcy, then came the next, what to do, lost the boulder, and Greece was lost and the ball was lost. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I am expecting from the New Democracy or from the PASOK a 'I'm sorry. I don't want anything more, I'm sorry that you didn't do anything right, that today you're running behind developments under Crete with ORUÄ REIS, that you're running behind developments in relation to oil and gas, because you were either incapacitated or fraudulent, or you didn't get all this out. I cannot be the small Member and journalist to know about all this and Pangalos to be here and to be sanitized and told me, Mr. Andreas Loverdo, that you conspiracy, there is no oil in Greece. Here was Pangalos and he was answering me. And if George Papandreou comes out the next day, your former president, and tells me: "There are no oil in Greece" and he gets his nose. Body movement. Lies. I mean, all this shows that some people didn't want to. Let's look as a parliament, then, who didn't want to. Let's see who didn't want our minerals to come out. And then the Maniot, in his honor, made mistakes in design, came and SYRIZA proceeded, didn't vote later. In any case, all this shows that something is not doing well in this country. And that's a good thing that we don't do, the next generations pay for it. And the New Democracy, this party, this party, cannot find someone else responsible, in any case, for the 1821 events. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] If, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing here, Mr President - this reminds me of you 1821, it reminds me of the cabaret. Okay? Cordettes, lace. Yes, unfortunately! So if you want to make events in 1821, make them with serious people and not with gentlemen, such as Mr. Kostis, who said that the Revolution was not a palatial revolution, but an initiative of a marginal elite. In fact, it says: "I want to achieve a reduction in the Catholicity of the Elevation of 1821. We're distorting events that led to the uproar. We are hampering history." Man does not recognize himself - the founder with Angelopoulos - Hellenism and Orthodoxy. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, this person, this person, is laughing and crying. And the worst of all for the New Democracy - because it is a great party, very big, with struggles for Greece - as a Greek party, is that unfortunately with your choices, laughs and cry is this gentleman, but laughs and crys are also you. We won't cry. You'll be crying for yourself in government on a runway. Every day you fall - that's what you understand - why you're committing crimes. Really give Greece signals, unite. And in 1821 it was a union revolution. Don't make an ribbon and a lace! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Delis spoke. Let's go to Mr. Loverdo. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. As a parliamentary representative, I will make two more general references. I apologise to the Minister, but on the subject of the draft law for which you are here, I will make my third report, trying to be consistent with the five minutes that Mr Kaklamanis, the President, gives me. As for what Mr Velopoulos said, I have to point out: he is not wrong in all. On the delays in specific issues relating to minerals, the country's mineral wealth, but also on an issue related to the Exclusive Economic Zone, I hear some of its arguments and I note that in 2014 Greece - with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Venizelos and Minister at ICES, Mr Maniatis, who mentioned it, and I thank him - it became the first delimitation of land in a specific region in Crete, I mean the marine area. Mr President, the draft law as a law and its coordinates have been sent to the United Nations, but not to be registered as coordinates - I want to be clear - but just to inform the United Nations. We are still there, which I consider to be a delay too. Things have to be done. However, the only instrument for making such decisions is the informal body of the Council of Political Heads, whose convening Mrs Gennimata has repeatedly called for. As far as a second issue is concerned, I have two comments to make: first comment on the situation and second one on the situation. I hear the government, the ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the government's word is anemic, it's detectable. Where you have successes - because I am being informed on the ground, I am not being informed by Kolonaki or the café of the House - you are not going out to tell them. Fear the matter. You've been taken from below and you can't see the good and evil of your course. The opposition speech, Mr President, as formulated by the media, is filled with wickedness, ambiguities, weaknesses and, above all, attempted by political speculation. We also need to focus on focusing on the one who has the first reason. In the republics, the plenipotentiary of the Greek people has him, in order for this government and then we, the parties of opposition, the Greater World and the Elassus. What is heard all day before an imminent audience, the Greek people, is outside the needs of the country. I am also speaking to you as a parliamentary representative of my prolongation and as a member of the National Foreign Policy Council, because the refugee - immigration is not an internal issue, it is an issue that concerns Europe, a question of European policy and a matter of the country's foreign policy and focuses on Greek-Turkish, which can only be seen blindly or foolishly. Minister, Mr Katrinis, to whom I wish "permanently", is why he is not here today, to say a few words about the draft law - he made a very detailed suggestion to the committee, as the representative of the Greek Solution made a detailed suggestion to another tone. We must monitor, even in the sanctions that come here on the basis of Article 108, what the parties have said, what comments they have made. My colleague, Mr Katrinis, has underlined a number of misunderstandings that exist in relation to dental amalgams for the seals. It also made a very interesting distinction, which I did not hear from colleagues who spoke today: the problem of mercury and the specific Minamata Convention that we were coming here to ratify, as a problem, Mr President, firstly, public health, but secondly, the protection of the environment. I would like to make a comment to you, Mr Minister, on behalf of the government, and I would ask you to take this comment. Mr Katrinis pointed out that this convention has signed - of course, we are positive - an hundred and twenty-eight states and ratified and ratified ninety-one. We are not yet in them after seven years. It is wrong, Mr President, to delay ratification and ratification of international conventions when there is no reason. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] No one can say that I, in the four and a half years of SYRIZA, had with Mr. Kammen a policy partnership. However, I have had the courage to acknowledge, Mr President, that he has brought all the contracts pending for 15 years to the Ministry of National Defence and that we have condemned them. If each ministry sees what exists as a penal lap for Parliament - because the House ratifys, Greece ratifys - we could be out of sight, but by bringing the conventions here in time. We're coming now - well doing - to ratify, but we're not in the lead and someone wonders why. For reasons of doubt? Oh, no. For reasons of parliamentary weakness? Oh, no. What for? Minister of State. Saved contracts have been sitting for too many years. Not for seven years, as we have here, but for more, for ten or fifteen years. It is good, as the previous Minister with whom I was in the opposition has done 100% of what he said here and at the expense of my party, but I did not hesitate to praise this ratification initiative, and you must also give a signal to all your colleagues that there are - no political reason for delay - that the conventions should come here to ratify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u23	We have said to speak one of each party. But because Mrs. Kafantari told me she wants to say something for two minutes, I'll give her the floor for two minutes. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u24	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u25	Last, Mr. Levane, you weren't. I said, I'll go back, but I'll end up with you. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u26	First of all, Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. So I take the floor on the occasion of the position of the Chief of Greek Solution, because he referred to the country's mineral wealth, due to speciality and scientific, anyway, to some relevant knowledge. The case of our country's mineral wealth is a very serious case. At some point there has to be a spatial development of the country's mineral resources. At the moment there are studies of years and by the Institute for Geological Research mapping of the mining regions of the country that need to be taken seriously into account. However, I do not think it is right to quote and - let me - reproducing television broadcasts within the Chamber of Parliament, So what each, Greek or foreigner says - each teacher and others - about what is in our country, I do not think he is always responsible, and I think he should solve it. Because they have also referred to issues of the Exclusive Economic Zone, I would like to say that the exercise of the country's sovereign rights in the EEZ presupposes cooperation, good neighbourly relations, respect for international conditions and then to talk about all these issues. Finally, because the issue of oil, gas, has also been discussed, we have heard about the successes of the junta or, in any case, about the pioneering of the junta in this area, I would like to say that it is very difficult to speak with numbers, when research is being carried out, because I am able to know that both natural gas and oil if there is one region, there are many factors that determine whether the possibility of extraction or recovery is being applied. It has to do with the geological structures of the region, it has to do with too much. So, in order to come up with this, we have to spend some years of research, drilling, etc. We are now at a new time where we are interested in the energy security of the country, clearly also in Europe, where we also contribute with the logic of EastMed pipelines and all this, but in any case we are at a time when we are going to a climate-neutral Europe in 2050. It is good that Europe will be the first climate-neutral continent in the world, returning to the other forms of energy, renewables and others, and other policies in this area that is a priority. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u27	Mrs. Kafantari is a gift from the Bureau for your nominal holiday yesterday. And we will be closing down with the two parliamentary representatives. Mr. Famelos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we asked to speak on behalf of the SYRIZA and the parliamentary group was first of all to deal with a serious issue - which I thought would be raised by the representative of the Change Movement - as far as migration was concerned, but I did not see it coming into its right dimension. So let me put our own perspective...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u29	I put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u30	I'm talking about the dimension, Mr. Loverdo. I said you'll allow me to put our point of view on it. Mr President, yesterday we were all informed of a violation of the parliamentary rules on the functioning of the House by the government. While Parliament is working and while we have legislative work today, tomorrow, the government has chosen by act of legislative content to proceed with the ordering of areas and buildings on the Aegean islands to create closed structures. So what comes first of all on the agenda is why, Minister, the government, while having legislative work, has chosen to violate the parliamentary rule and act of legislative content. Legislative acts, as far as I know, Mr President, can only be done when the House is unable or unable to do so, is closed and something too urgent. We have an issue that runs for eight months, where the Prime Minister has already admitted government mistakes and is preparing for another, and you underestimate parliamentary function. While we have a plenary and could bring an amendment today and end today, it is not going to end today normally, but it ends in closed offices outside of us, outside parliamentarians. And I ask: why does the government choose to violate a classic parliamentary rule? We don't have a Parliamentary Republic? What are you afraid of? You want me to tell you what you're afraid of? Let's tell you. First of all, I fear that, in a roll-call vote, the Members of the New Democracy from the islands will not vote for it. You are afraid that if representatives of operators come here, if the mayors of the islands come, they will not vote. You fear that all Greece will understand in open procedures, in parliamentary procedures, as provided for in our Constitution, that you are still making a great mistake, unlike all your commitments. And is that why you underestimate parliamentary rules and the very functioning of the House? We believe that this is unacceptable, and we believe that the Bureau of Parliament too, since there is now a procedure that could bring this issue forward, must make an intervention on this matter. I cannot understand why you are violating the parliamentary rule. I will judge the issue of your position, which is very essential, but the first thing you have to say to us is why we are not going to the procedure of this House and act of legislative content. Let's say one more thing. Will this choice help the islands, where will they eventually become ghettos? So should the islands also have a problem, a problem with refugees and be living down because of the New Democracy's policy and the mistakes you are constantly making in immigration-refugee, something that the Prime Minister himself admitted? Unless you do any legislative act to enable the Prime Minister to say "we also made a mistake" and to change it again, as you did with the formation of the Ministry. Because, in the end, where you end up, it will be for you to do closed structures on the islands. Indeed, I heard that the Minister for Development on television today refused that they would be financed by Europe and that they would be paid by the Greek budget, because we are making policies that are not in line with the general asylum policy. That's what we heard. Let's confirm all this, please. But what will be the result? That you'll have two and three structures on islands? In Mytilini, in Lesvos, will you go to three structures and will you have problems engaging in other municipalities with openness and openness, so that everyone can stay on the islands and multiply the problem? Is that really it? Why don't you solve the issue of susceptibility, medical staffing? You made the huge mistake by cutting off AMKA from these people, and now you're running to cover another "crowd" and you don't solve the problems of unaccompanied minors with the wrong institutional framework, when you lowered the limit to fourteen years and you've gone to fast-track procedures in the unaccompanied 15-year-olds. And what will be the matter? Will everyone gather on our islands? Because if you were to solve the issue of removing geographical exclusion with vulnerability, then we could also talk about something else that the islands are asking for. Why isn't anyone talking about inland structures? Why did you feed with hatred and fear, both self-government and society, and now cannot the Minister for the Interior resolve the issue he calls on them? These mistakes must be discussed in order to make good policies for our country. Because you do not solve anything by closing eyes, cumulating human souls and making citizens and refugees suffer. You have the wrong parliamentary procedure and the wrong tools to solve the real problem. By mistake, however, our islands are also suffering, and this is a very big issue, which is obviously not solved by legislative acts. In this case, then, we again say that it should be in a normal process to discuss with actors. If you don't, all you'll admit is that you can't stand democracy. You cannot stand the debate, dialogue, you cannot stand the opinion of the institutions. To be here and to place your MPs by roll-call vote, to call on the mayors of the islands, to see if you have managed to solve staffing problems, to operate asylum on the basis of the international institutional framework. These are the crucial issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, the second thing I would like to say - and forgive me for the time - is that we were informed from a press release yesterday on another subject which will come again with an amendment tomorrow, without proper parliamentary debate and dialogue with interested parties, and which concerns LARCO. Look, with a press release from the Ministry of the Environment yesterday. And I would like the Deputy Minister here today to tell me why the Ministry of Finance is absent from this process, when typically, based on the shares and the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance has to take this initiative? Why is Mr Stakoras hiding from a debate that also concerns him locally? Why is the Ministry of Finance hiding behind a discussion with workers and work abuses on a matter that concerns him and locally? There is a serious issue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u31	And turn it off, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u32	Yes, Mr. President. And be careful, with a press release full of clipping and inaccuracy, lying from the Ministry of the Environment, he's trying to convince us that he's choosing the best solution, basically repeating the well-known candy that it's all the fault of SYRIZA. I mean, he says it's for his solution. It's for SYRIZA. For his non-resolution, which promotes this press release by Mr Hatzidakis, it is because of SYRIZA, and indeed, without guaranteeing either the operation of the factory, the exploitation of the national mineral wealth, the work in the region, or the compatibility with European policies. He's throwing everything at SYRIZA, hiding that the European Commission started...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u33	Mr Famelle, we will not talk about 'LARCO'. The amendment will be here tomorrow, come and say it. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u34	By hiding, therefore, that responsibility for bankruptcy, breach of European rules, rumours and mismanagement relates to administrations placed between 2007 and 2014 and the decisions of the European Commission ended in 2014. SYRIZA solved several problems with energy costs, with the resolution of issues relating to ownership...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u35	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u36	So here, Mr President, we raise a point: to call on the region, the municipalities, the labour centres and the workers in Central Greece, where the Minister of Finance is elected, to have a debate before tomorrow's debate. Because this must be the essential procedure, take responsibility. Because you have often filled LARCO with ruffles and mismanagement, and in violation of the state aid rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Femmelle, please very much. I'm not gonna do what I did anymore, because I see you've all been abused.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u38	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u39	Not everyone, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u40	Almost all of them. Shut up right now, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u41	You're right, Mr. President. However, I am talking about issues that have been raised in the parliamentary debate. It's nothing outside the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u42	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u43	Is there an amendment from the Ministry of the Environment that violates and amends changes from the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Justice, without passing through the General Secretariat of the Government - is the Special Secretary of Parliament - and is such a text going into the public debate to create further problems?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Famelle, this is the last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u45	Because we are used to talking about the right legalization, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u46	Please hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u47	You're right. I want to say a word about the Minamata contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u48	No, you won't. You have agreed to the committee. You thank me very much for the tolerance I showed and you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u49	Then only one thing about the gold for which something was heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u50	I protest, Mr President. I want three minutes, too. I cut everything out of my speech. How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u51	It's one of the few times you've been absolutely consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I will say nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u53	Hang up, please. You're not gonna say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u54	I want the Minister of Finance to tell us about LARCO and the absence of the Ministry of Finance and Mr Stakora.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u55	You said that five times!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u56	It is also a matter of legal action.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u57	All right, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u59	Because you referred to the Bureau - because I do not do what Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulos has done, to speak at the time I chair - I am obliged to reply on behalf of the President. Firstly, the legislative act will come to Parliament, you know that. You ask for a roll-call vote and there you will see the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u60	Retrospective, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u61	He's coming to the House, though. Secondly, I don't want to take it down here now, because you know I remember. Don't tell me it became a democratic coup. Do not go back to the Bureau for the last five years. The House was open again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u62	For memorials with the imposition of creditors?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u63	We went to the memorial now, okay. Thirdly and finally, tomorrow when the LARCO amendment comes - if it comes tomorrow, it can come tomorrow, I do not know - Mr Stagiras will be here. I heard him and this morning. He didn't hide. He'll be here. Of course, to the extent that they do not have absolute authority...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u64	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u65	He'll be here, as always.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Famelle, would you like me to call you back to class? Do you know how easy it is for me? You are a parliamentary representative. Parliamentary representatives must set a good example, not stumble it. Mr Lebanese has the floor now. Then Mr. Velopoulos will be speaking for two minutes. Obviously something you want to answer Mrs Kafantaris and we will close with the Minister. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u67	First of all, I would like to say - I will ask for a tolerance from now - to Mr Famello, but not personally, I mean to SYRIZA, because we faced the same problem yesterday with the respective dialogues, that you should learn to answer, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, when we ask you questions. I'll give you one of these things so you can answer it to us after we're out of the Chamber. Has Mr Tsakalotos sent the European Commission a letter seeking to find individuals for Larco?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u68	I shall take the floor later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u69	Oh, no. Outside the hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u70	What "outside the Chamber"?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u71	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u72	May I? Let me finish you and you find what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Loverdo, please. We're not doing this here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u74	We don't do it here like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u75	He's been given the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u76	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u77	He has the right not to address you and to contact SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u78	Yeah, but I hear people take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u79	No, no one else will take the floor. Who told you? Did you hear me say he was going to take the floor? Only Mr. Velopoulos for a minute to answer Mrs. Kafantaris and the Minister. That's what I said. Mr. Levane, I've been ripping you all the time, and I've been putting you five minutes from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u80	If you are kind, because you are in favour of democracy and dialogue, let me finish. I left you. The first is that. The direct shot against Mr Stakoura is absolutely unjust. Precisely because LARCO is located in its constituency, it has come out with vigour - not many Members of this region would do so - and it is practically in favour of the Greek economy, in favour of the Greek citizens, in a different way, which it proposes, not through this - as you said - 'Press Release', but from the statements which Mr Hatzidakis had made today - I can then give them to you to study them - where it comes in practically and says: 'LARCO' has 308 million in 2018. In the three years 2015-2018, 148 million entered. Its total cost is about 700 million. So we have a specific point of view, which I cannot develop, because the President will cut me off. But I can give it to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u81	But you'll see tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u82	That's right. For which we are willing to discuss as much as you want with you. We have our opinion. You have yours, which you have served for five years. Don't make personal shots for playgrounds. As regards the undemocraticity of legislative acts, you know very well that these are provided for in the Constitution when we have unforeseen and exceptional needs. It is hypocritical and - you will allow me to say - unacceptable and funny to have SYRIZA resign us when you have brought thirty-four acts of legislation in the first year of your administration. And in November 2015 in one day, you brought twelve acts of legislation. Listen up, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Don't talk to each other, supposedly you don't care, because this way...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u83	Mr Levane, you are addressing the Chamber through the Bureau. Don't ever listen to the colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u84	So, in one day of these acts of legislation in November, what were you saying? It was about the closure of the banks. And the rest were about a bill - a "broom bill" was that? - which had all the ministries inside. So you who legislated in this way are the last ones who can come to this Chamber and place themselves on how we legislate. In this context and in reply to Mr Loverdos, I wanted to say that our own effort, our government, is honorable. Only this week we have four while you've seen how many sanctions we bring. The reason why sanctions have been left behind and in the drawers of the government is because the majority of SYRIZA at the time was not interested and left them there spouting. We are also doing so within this framework, and we are also discussing what we are discussing today. As regards the part now of the substance of the issue of pensions and refugee, as you have put it, and as both Parliamentary representatives have put it, we felt that this has reached its limit. We therefore consider it necessary for the public order not to be jeopardised - you have all understood this - but also for public health that this act of legislation should come. We've tried all the past few weeks to find a common place with local government. It is normal - I live in my constituency too - a municipality or a community when such a centre is likely to take its geographical boundary to deny it. So we had to take the political cost, decide the closed structures, which you refuse and bring you back to class, telling you that your lies don't apply. We will not keep three structures on each island, as SYRIZA spokesman said before. We will keep at the end of this process - we hope that this will be in the summer - a structure that has less than half the population than it has now. At the same time, we are making decongestion at two levels: firstly, we are bringing people to central Greece and, secondly, there are returns - which you have not done - at a rapid rate. Only in January were eighty-five returns, when all over 2019 had become three hundred. Our target is two hundred returns every week. This is our strategy. We believe her. And if you want to look at the announcement that SYRIZA made yesterday and suggests four specific things, all four of them we do. So don't open and break open doors, because you're just being exposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only make two more comments, Mr President. With regard to our political speech, which, as the representative of the Change Movement said, is anemic, I would like to say: we are trying to do our work seriously and rightly. The gain we have today from the way in which Germany has developed its arguments. It comes to our senses. And we think with his presidency, he'll take the initiative...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u85	He doesn't have it. Which he'll have.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u86	Yes, Mr President, it will. ...which we all in Greece hope for. What I said before is true. You know that. You can see it. It is a big problem in which no one should fish in blurred waters with populism. All of us, with good proposals, need to strengthen this effort. And because I am referring to these good proposals, I am happy to agree with the President of the Greek Solution in what he said before, that Greece has indeed been delayed in various areas. One of these was the story that we lived in this room a few weeks ago with hydrocarbons, where the former SYRIZA government had negotiated, and it had reached an agreement that when we brought it here, in this Chamber, she did not ratify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u87	Good. But please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u88	So this kind of criticism, as made by Mr Velopoulos before, is a positive criticism of proposals that are useful to us. We believe in that logic. Mr. Hatzidakis proves this as a minister who succeeded the logic of Mr. Maniotis. At the level of the EEZs and our foreign policy effort, I believe that Mr Nineteen's statements respond to the concerns of all of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u89	Close, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u90	In that sense, I believe it is important that we are now in the hands of the Minamata Treaty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u91	That's all we talked about today, but it doesn't matter. Mr Velopoulos has the floor for two minutes. Then to Mr Vésiropoulos, who must answer not only for ratification but also for other matters, instead of five minutes I will give him - I am legitimate - ten minutes as speaking time. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because we do not know the basics in here and it is good when we talk, know the basics, the EEZ is not a neighbouring state, but a unilateral act. It's over and over! Of course, if EXXON MOBIL, ENI and TOTAL, and all the major multinational companies, what SYRIZA says today, would not make mining, nor research, nor would they ask our country to give them land to extract, i.e. if there were no gas and other cases and stories. I didn't hear anything from SYRIZA. Looks like they're old sins they don't want to go through with. Because that's a skull place! We're going to illegal immigration. I've started and I'm afraid of both words and behaviors. When you do something in an area, it means that without asking the inhabitant, you go and say, "I'll do that." In the republics, there are no orders. There is dialogue, there is a consensus and, above all, ask: 'Do you want or do you not want?'. Here, of course, New Democracy, in its panic, said the structures would be closed. They will, however, be closed and half open. It'll be open and closed. They're coming in in the morning and they're coming out this afternoon. They'll be out at night, etc. Incredible, that is, things to make fun of the world. We were told that eighty-six non-governmental organisations were recorded. I'm waiting for the Minister to tell us what will happen to the rest. Is he gonna shut them down? Eighty-six will be checked or just recorded? That is what concerns us very much. We, Mr President, went to Lesvos. Mr. Mylonakis went with a step in the Greek Solution. In Moria 80% are Afghans. They're not refugees. So let us stop the big story in this Chamber. In conclusion, let me say this: I have before me - and I will present it in the Minutes later - something for the New Democracy. When Mr. Muzalas decided to think about the hotel dictionary, did they make a statement and what did they say? ‘They are ready for private buildings. Let them be seen by those who voted not to pay HISPIAN." That's what New Democracy said. That's hypocritical. It shows an inability, too. The main thing, however, is - and let the friends of the New Democracy be misunderstood - that you are no longer a New Democracy, but a 'New Tourist Industry'. Transfer from the islands to mainland Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u93	Good. That's not an answer to Mrs. Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u94	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u95	Just because you said that in republics there are no orders - I have not seen the text, the constitutionalist here knows it better than I do - and they are provided under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u96	Theories.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to answer the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Levane, we're done. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u99	But, Mr. President, I want to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u100	There is no way, Mr President. Put your hand down. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I should like to give an answer to the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u102	There's no way, and I won't do it again what I've done today good faith.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u103	Why not? It worked well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u104	It worked fine, but only on the substance of the matter, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u105	I'm actually talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u106	I've done this before, but I've been disciplined by those who say five minutes. They kept their time. But I'm not talking about you now. Because you're old, like me, you know what I mean. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the measure of requisition by means of an act of legislation is an emergency, as the situation has to be addressed and brought to an immediate end. The government's priority is to reduce refugee flows. As, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for 'LARCO', you will have the time tomorrow to discuss the amendment to the House, to make your opposition policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is now ratifying the Minamata International Convention on Mercury, which has been concluded under the auspices of the United Nations Environment Programme. It is a contract that our country signed on 10 October 2013 in Kumamoto, Japan, and has been signed to date by a hundred and twenty-eight countries all over the world. There has no doubt been a delay in the ratification of this convention by our country. The previous government has allowed the time to pass without bringing the contract to the House in order to officially ratify it. In fact, Greece is one of the five countries that have not yet entered into ratification, despite the fact that the contract has entered into force since 16 August 2017. It is an international initiative with a strong environmental footprint and content, since it has as a reference protection against uncontrolled use of derivatives with mercury element. As far as the substance and content of the Convention are concerned, it is in full correspondence and harmony with European regulations and the institutional framework of the European Union. The European Union itself initially set the framework under European Regulation 1122/2008, which refers to the prohibition on exports of metallic mercury, compounds and derivatives containing mercury. The provisions of this Regulation set out the conditions and rules for the safe and environmentally acceptable storage of mercury. This Regulation has been updated and replaced by a new Regulation, following the signing of the Minamata Convention, in which one of the Contracting Parties is the European Union. The new Regulation 2017/852 of the European Union, which replaced the previous regulation, has included in its content everything provided for by this convention that is currently to be ratified by Parliament. And it is a very important ratification of an international agreement, since at its core it has environmental protection. There are specific forecasts and provisions that protect the environment against the unpleasant effects that can be created by uncontrolled use of mercury. Insurance cycles have been delimited for the entire life of mercury from primary mining up to the management of mercury waste. This is because scientific research, with indisputable documentation, shows that mercury is one of the most serious threats to human health and the environment. For example, scientific and medical evidence has been provided that exposure of humans at high mercury levels, including consumption of contaminated fish and seafood, can cause damage to the brain, lungs, kidneys and immune system. What we achieve through the activation of the Minamata International Convention is to create a new and modern framework of control and limit the use of mercury and mercury compounds, as well as anthropogenic emissions and releases of mercury and mercury compounds in air, water and soil. The aim is to protect human health and the environment. The ratification of this convention also results in our country's obligations to comply with the new data. In particular, it is foreseen to prohibit primary mercury extraction which was not carried out on the territory of the country at the date of entry into force of the Convention. Only primary mercury extraction carried out on the territory of the country may be authorised on the date of entry into force of the Convention and for a maximum of 15 years from that date. Mercury resulting from primary mining shall only be used in procedures provided for in the Convention. It is also clear that the prohibition on the export of mercury with certain exceptions following the written consent of the beneficiary and its corresponding import ban from sources that do not fulfil certain safety requirements is clearly laid down. The obligations under the Convention include a prohibition on the production, import and export of mercury-added products, such as batteries, fluorescent lamps, high pressure mercury vapour lamps, mercury in cold cathode fluorescent lamps and external electrode fluorescent lamps, cosmetics with high mercury content, pesticides, biocidal products and local antiseptics and measuring instruments not electronically, but used for mercury such as barometers or thermometers. The same direction is the prohibition on the use of mercury or mercury compounds in the production processes of specific products. Substantial measures are also planned to limit mercury emissions from the craft and small-scale gold mining in order to protect the environment. Of course, all of this will be included in an integrated National Action Plan, which will be evaluated, monitored continuously and updated as necessary. There are four areas where emphasis is placed: First, the reduction of mercury emissions and mercury compounds into the atmosphere through measures to control emissions from sources such as coal-fired power plants, waste incineration plants or cement-producing plants. Secondly, strict control and reduction of mercury release and mercury compounds in soil and water. Thirdly, even the temporary storage of amounts of mercury and compounds intended for authorised use will be subject to strict environmental protection rules. Fourthly, there will be management and, depending on cases and rehabilitation of contaminated areas of mercury. In order to achieve these objectives, it is planned to exchange know-how and technology between countries in order to achieve these objectives. In fact, reports will be submitted on the measures taken to implement certain provisions of the Convention and all will be examined at conferences of the signatory countries. It is also a given fact that actions relating to information, awareness and education for citizens will be developed for the consequences of the uncontrolled use of mercury. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said during the debate in committee, the ratification of this convention has an environmental mark. It should therefore be broadly supported across-the-board, and it should be a field of convergence of all political forces. And that should be confirmed by all of us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western gallery twenty-five students and students and two of their educational attendants from the American College of Greece. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Constitution of the Minamata Convention on Mercury' is finalised. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would remind you that only the rapporteurs vote electronically. In the case of the Change Movement, because his rapporteur is missing, Mr. Loverdes will vote. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the second article, the hotel article, and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u109	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u110	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u111	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Consolidation of the Minamata Convention on Mercury’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u113	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-11-S1-commons.u114	With the consent of the House at 13.30 p.m. the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday, 12 February 2020 at 10.00 p.m. on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring it from 24.12.2019 P.M. "Urgent arrangements to increase the amount of the social dividend for 2019, to extend the out-of-court settlement mechanism and to extend the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices" (A'212) and other provisions."
