ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We're on our way to the SPECIFIC ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions: debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, Part Two'. I propose that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should take the floor, if they so wish, for five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Obviously, the leaders of the parties are also entitled to speak. I don't say it much. I know that Mr Velopoulos has asked to speak on the Rules of Procedure of the House. The majority rapporteur, Evrypidis Stylianides, has the floor. I would also add that the transparent casing that we put in the Step is a recommendation from the Health Service of the House for the purposes of protecting workers from stenographers. Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the functioning of Parliament in these difficult times guarantees the strength of a disciplined democracy to protect public health, national security, creating the conditions for returning to normality and guaranteeing full respect for individual freedoms. This is a difficult, but admirable balance based on the individual responsibility of the citizens, but also on the political responsibility of the rulers. Today's amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is necessary in line with the 2019 Constitutional Review. When this Review began from a hundred and fifty - four disagreements in the proposed parliament was considered mutilated and inappropriate. The Revision House has demonstrated that when there is a democratic dialogue of a high scientific and political level it can lead to national understanding. In the short term, between two and three months, we have managed to reach nine points of constitutional change that directly affect the functioning of our state and political system, such as the election of the President of the Republic or the vote of the homosexuals. The present proposal for a new Rules of Procedure of Parliament is developing on three lines: first and foremost, adapting to the new constitutional provisions. The second is the application of the principles of good legislature. And thirdly, it is Parliament's operational improvement. With regard to the first aspect of the constitutional harmonisation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Article 1 provides for an adaptation to Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the new provision of Rule 101a of the Constitution in paragraph 2, which provides that the independent authorities should be elected by unanimity or by four fifths of the Conference of Presidents to the Conference of Presidents, so that they do not remain headless and do not exceed the reasonable time after their term of office, as was the case in the past with the Broadcasting Council. Article 3 upgrades Parliament's control role by strengthening, in practice, the principle of controls and the balances of the Constitution. Article 144(5) of the Rules of Procedure shall be in line with the provision of Article 68(2) of the Constitution. The Committees of Inquiry are now a tool for strong parliamentary control of the Greater Era, as well as for the Eleonian Patriarchate. This is how they evolve from abusive often - not always - means of criminalising the political life and producing micro-party impressions at the hands of the majority in an important tool of strict control in the hands and in the parliamentary minority. Article 4 restores the credibility and honor of the political world and perhaps also the confidence of the citizens towards politicians. Rules 156(10), 157(4) and 158(3) of the Rules of Procedure, following the constitutional change of Article 86(3) of the Constitution on the criminal liability of a Minister, equate to the issue of the limitation of criminal offences the Minister with the ordinary citizen. A corresponding adjustment to the new Criminal Code, in particular Articles 224 and 225 and the Code of Criminal Procedure, is made to Articles 147(3) and 156(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. With regard to the second axis, that of good legislature, Article 2 harmonises Article 85(3) of the Rules of Procedure with the basic principles of good legislature as laid down in Law 4622/2019 in Articles 57 next concerning the final state. Each draft law should be accompanied by a explanatory statement on the basis of Article 74(1), which clearly identifies and defines the regulated problem, setting clear and definite time-limited targets, the report of general implications that prejudges the multi-level effects of the legislative initiative, the consultation report highlighting the activation of citizens and social partners in the context of the two-way relationship of a participatory democracy, the legality report dealing with in advance issues of unconstitutionality and harmonisation with European and international law, the table of repealed provisions contributing to the systemic codification of legislation in order to address the multiplicity and evil that usually give rise to bureaucracy and corruption, the implementation report that enhances effectiveness, because it is known the major problem in Greece is not linked to the resolution, but to the proper implementation and rapid implementation of laws. Such predictions are introduced for the urgent and urgent procedure of a draft law or for the proposals made by Members of Parliament, whereas in Rule 85(5) of the Rules of Procedure provisions are adopted on the economic legislation, i.e. an estimate not only of the financial costs but also of the economic consequences of a legislative change. This is an important innovation that connects legislation to the real economy. I remind you of one example, the rename of four Ministries in 2010, which cost the Greek State more than EUR 150 million. The third axis concerns Article 6 and is linked to the costless use of Parliament's staff with a positive impact on functionality and on efficiency. I believe, Mr President, that these changes are important and necessary in the improvement of both Parliament and our political system, and that is why the New Democracy is voting for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Stylianides. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis, now has a series, which will speak from his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would first of all like to emphasise the importance of the fact that Parliament is working. This gives a strong signal - of course always respecting the rules proposed by public health scientists - that a democratically-ordered state can win by operating without having a reduction in democratic rights and democratic processes. I am referring to this because we see in other European Parliaments, for example in the Hungarian Parliament, that there are unacceptable procedures that curtail democratic rights and put them directly against European values. The public health crisis, the pandemic crisis in no way can and should not be allowed to become a rights crisis or a democracy crisis. In this context I would like to say to you that I find the initiative, which you have taken with your counterparts from other parliaments in Europe, to tackle the economic crisis and the possibility of issuing European bonds and intervention to the central institutions of Europe, in order to share responsibility and management of the crisis in order to deal with these unprecedented situations for both the country's economy and, of course, for the European economy. This contrasts with the exclusion from the meetings of the President of the European Parliament, Mr Sasoli, before the Eurogroup is held, and I think that all Parliaments and all their democratic forces and families in Europe should be pushed to pressure so that at these critical times the voice of the parliaments, the voice of the peoples, the voice of the citizens, and decisions to be made with a sense of responsibility can be heard. I shall now refer to the matter of today's sitting. In the first five articles we have regulatory harmonisation on the basis of and on the basis of the recent constitutional revision. We were placed on issues extensively and in detail, on other issues, agreeing to others by recording our disagreement. We consider it reasonable and self-evident that Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be in line with the laws and the Constitution of the State despite any disagreements and objections we have made on individual issues, which the majority in Parliament decided to move this way. For example, I refer for example to Article 1 and to the independent authorities, where a majority change is made to take a decision with three fifths, while the previous situation had a status of broader agreement to achieve and enforce in some way - in or out of import - a greater consensus with four fifths. So we in these first five articles are in favour. We are also in favour of the change in Part II concerning internal arrangements and retraining with regard to staff, which is currently employed in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u6	And I thank Mr Zachariadis. Because it was kind enough to refer to the letter sent by ten European Parliamentary bodies to the European institutions and to the President of the Eurogroup for unprecedented debt, as we have signed, mobilisation of funds to deal with health and also the following economic trial, I would like to say on the occasion that this story of the coronary does not ask for the debts of others, that is, the richest debts of the less prosperous or unfavourable, but in fact calls for the issue of this account to help those who have greater credit solvency and lower interest rates in the issue of their own bonds, to contribute with their merits so that the total percentage of the interest rate on this debt is low, so it may then be more easily paid off. It is a contributory contribution and not so much for the good people to pay the bad debts to oversimplify it. We hope that this debate in which they have sought to contribute ten European parliaments, namely France, Italy, Greece, Slovenia, Luxembourg - and that is ten, because some countries have a Senate and a National Assembly - will play an even less important role in reaching agreement in the short term on an unprecedented - I repeat - financing the effects of this test. He has the floor - and I apologise for this delay that I have caused him - the rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. You have not caused any delay, not least because the issue you have mentioned is very important, it symbolises the priority that our country has set, and in this direction I think we are all moving, and we support the initiatives that highlight this role. Of course, we have, as a Parliament, achieved a minimum of understanding in order to have the procedures needed to contribute as an institution to dealing with pandemic and, above all, to establish an effective plan to keep society up and alive. I am not going to follow Mr Stylianidis, who has done one thing - in my view - today. Wanting to support his views on the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, he chose to cast unfounded accusations referring to 2010 and to the change at ministries' level, even saying he also cost 150 million, forgetting that such changes had taken place in the previous period in which he participated and served and, of course, were recently made by the new government, which resulted from the elections of 7 July. I think it's a parentheses, and I'm closing it. I would, however, like to refer to post-collection as a whole and say that the 1975 Constitution with its amendments and 1986 and 2001, with the exception of the 2008 inadmissibility in the sense that this Constitutional Review artificially, selectively, deliberately chose to revise only the issue of incompatibility, thereby allowing it to immediately start a new constitutional revision. Of course, I should like to refer to the recent review, which, although it did not cover all the needs and all that we wanted to cover, has made a revision of important provisions covering the current needs. So the conquest of post-multipleism, whether institutionalised or independently the delay that exists and is observed in the introduction of important provisions of the Constitution, is the lever with which our system from a purely centralised despite the provisions of the Constitution since 1975 that the administration in our country has been following the decentralised system, the aggregated model has been transformed, it is no longer governmental, only, we have modern governance - we can say that - a provision for modern, multi-level governance with control and balancing systems. The fact that it has not been sufficiently separated, that the separation of powers has not been guaranteed, because there has been an atmosphere last time for the choice of the leadership of justice and, of course, the separation and osmosis that is necessary, but must not have interdependence with the legislative body of the government, does not reduce the value of the provisions of the Constitution. However, we have important issues, which we need to see at the practical level, because the 2001 Review, apart from the fact that it guaranteed the first or second degrees of self-government as entities, where with the subsequent introduction of the 'CALICRATES' and of course the 'CAPESTRIA' which had been preceded, and the constitutional safeguarding of the independent authorities, these balancing mechanisms of the system and the establishment of multi-level governance have taken the flesh and bones. Apart from that, let us say that there is still a long way to go within the scope of the legislative procedure and parliamentary control - Parliament's main competences - in order to establish this control and the separation of powers. What do I mean? That many times the concept of good legacy remains a letter void. Because the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament also provide for all procedures and extraordinary ones, but it does not put forward - and we have seen it now - the attempt to tackle the pandemic and the present risk - the mere provision of our Constitution for an act of legislative content without a numerical or other restriction. It was a tool that had to be exploited. The provisions of our Constitution on the procedures for Members' amendments, parliamentary scrutiny procedures, etc. It's simple. With regard to what has not been introduced - and good - in both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, to impose restrictions, rules and criteria on when it is used, how and how numerically, it should not be abused by the government or by other bodies in order to denounce a institution which exists in such cases. They are institutions which exist in such cases and which must not be discussed in reverse for their negative, but for their positive side. Parliamentary control is a basic procedure for Parliament. I think we need to see, on the next day, a formulation of the Rules of Procedure, the corresponding provisions, in a way that strengthens parliamentary control, which is a creative tool for government control and proper decisions. With regard to the amendments, there is one point which has to do with the fact that we have not introduced in Parliament the obligation of the Bureau, of the government or of some kind, so that Parliament's amendments have a report from the General Accounting Office, not all of which are formally tabled by the groups. Because if we were to be misused, from the point of view of counter-population, the right to the amendments and we had a number of amendments that should have been tabled by the General Accounting Office of the State...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u8	He'd be paralyzed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u9	...then he'd be paralyzed and it wouldn't be possible. So we need to see the possibility, the obligation to report from the General Accounting Office of the State, to amendments tabled by the branches, which will clearly be dire and at the necessary level. Also, in discussing a draft legislation on amendments, the Minister is often not concerned with everyone, but with many and all governments - he comes and tells us what he wants or what he does not want. It speaks of some amendments, many times and not all the ministers. It is deserving to answer who accepts and who does not accept from the Members of Parliament, and here there must be a delicate balance. In the legislative process, at some point, the Minister must say 'I accept them, I do not accept' two hours before the end of the debate, one hour before, depending on which procedure we are following. I have been in detail to show that we are not suffering from a Constitution, we are not suffering from good predictions of a constitution or a Rules of Procedure. We are suffering many times from the preservation of this good prediction of the Constitution, through the bad practice followed, both for the lawmaking and on the part of the government, in particular, but sometimes - I will say it - by ourselves. I conclude, therefore, by saying that the amendments we make to the Rules of Procedure, in order to bring it into line with either the revised provisions of the Constitution or the new institutional framework that applies, on the basis of the law, to legislation - the title was 'final State' - are technically necessary, regardless of the view that everyone can have for individual provisions, whether it should be so or otherwise. This integration is therefore necessary and must be done. And in that sense we are also positive in principle, but also for the inclusion of all the articles that you have suggested, Mr President. You removed some contention. I do not regard them as so controversial, but they wanted to have a more debate. As for what has finally remained to be voted on, for all of this, we are absolutely positive. We are voting 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. It expressed interesting views on both parliamentary control and legislative work. It seems loneliness, Mr. Kegeroglu, has increased your ingenuity! I wanted to say that there were some provisions to strengthen the scientific capacity of the Parliamentary Scientific Service and some others that we can discuss when we have greater comfort and the conditions are not as pressing as they are now. We have now made the minimum necessary provisions. I have discussed it with my colleagues, I have discussed it with some of you, such as Mr Zachariadis and I have said that it is now right to vote on what has necessarily to be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure and all the others, which are also necessary, but which are not urgent, to postpone them for a longer time. On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed changes in Parliament's Rules of Procedure may constitute regulatory adaptation and harmonisation with changes already made in other legislative texts and which have an objective effect on the functioning of the House, but the political substance remains, much less, when these legislative texts include the changes that have been made with the recent constitutional revision. Therefore, as a JRC, we will be placed in the same way, attitude and vote as we have been in the respective debate. Article 1 incorporates the corresponding change in the Constitution, according to which a three-fifths majority is now required for the establishment of the so-called independent authorities. We had voted against this article of the Constitution, which aims to facilitate the establishment of institutions, such as the independent authorities, which play a part in the implementation of the sovereign policy, and sometimes even precede the implementation of this policy. We shall therefore vote against Article 1. I'll leave Article 2 for the end. Rule 3 adapts Rule 144 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to Rule 68 of the Constitution, which provides for the possibility of setting up two committees of inquiry, on a proposal from at least 10 Members and for which the House decides at least two fifths of Members, i.e. a hundred and twenty Members. This positive regulation, however, lays down exceptions, such as the ban on setting up such committees on foreign and defence policy. In these cases, the decision to recommend to the government majority remains. And because we had voted'residents' in the revision of paragraph 2 in the respective article of the Constitution, precisely because it maintained the decision in the government majority to set up defence and foreign policy committees, we will vote'residents' in Article 3. Article 4 adapts the Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the revision of Article 86(3) of the Constitution on the criminal liability of ministers, which abolished the exorbitant period within which the Parliament may exercise criminal proceedings. Our position as a JRC was the complete abolition of the law on liability of Ministers or even a radical reform of it, which should include the abolition of the depreciation deadline and, in particular, the abolition of the basic core of the 'Government' Act, according to which the possibility of setting up a pre-review committee, the prosecution of criminal proceedings, the withdrawal of criminal prosecution, has it by a government majority of what this entails. In this respect, we voted'residences' in Article 86(3) of the Constitution. We will do the same for the proposed Article 4. Finally, in Article 2, which adapts Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the law on the ultimate state, there are some additional conditions for good legislature, supposedly. Of course, today in the Rules of Procedure, there are terms of good legislation, such as how the bills should be discussed, forecasts of late and unnecessary amendments, the rights of minority in tabling and discussing proposals, laws, etc. But what was the fate of these predictions is known and the responsibility of all governments. The new conditions set out, the identification and delimitation of the problem that is to be solved, the formulation of clear time-limited and measurable targets and the reasons why it is not possible to achieve them, without the regulation being put forward, that is to say, the type of changes which will also apply to the amendments, in our opinion, will make it difficult to put forward proposals for laws and amendments by the opposition and, above all, the smaller parties. Of course, the President, in the respective debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, said that there would be care with the Scientific Agency for these conditions to be specified and that they would not be so demanding for the opposition as for the government. Of course, that remains to be seen. Of course, there is also the condition that the bill should comply with the law of the European Union. The irony is that you are putting this term of legislating, in the midst of a pandemic, when the protection of the health and life of the people requires conflict with this institutional framework of the European Union, which today especially shows all its inhuman and hideous face. We are therefore voting against Article 2. We are voting in favour of Rule 5 on the adaptation of the Rules of Procedure to Article 224 of the new Criminal Code, as well as Article 6 on post-call officials. In principle, we are voting 'at present', Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. The rapporteur of the Greek Solution, Mrs Athanasios, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of yesterday's sitting, Mr President, I would like to say my humble opinion, that Parliament's Rules of Procedure must apply to everything, both in the time and in the question, otherwise there is no Rules of Parliament. I'll start with Article 1. It appears that the majority for the selection of members of the independent authorities is reduced by one fifth. The Constitution, of course, requires a three-fifths majority, which is why it is being introduced. That is what we will say 'yes'. Article 2 provides for harmonisation with the new legislative procedure and this addition is necessary in order to ensure that the regulation is implemented in accordance with the arrangements laid down in Article 57 of Law No 4622/2019. Rule 85(9) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as replaced in particular with regard to bills, is well amended. As far as the proposals for laws are concerned, however, especially for opposition parties that do not have access to public services, this change, in particular with regard to point (a), puts serious restrictions in terms of formulating clear time-limits and, as far as possible, measurable targets and the reasons why they will be possible to achieve them without that. In any case, public consultation should be essential and not formal. Paragraph 2 of Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, as replaced, is correct with regard to the Ministers and Members of the House and contributes to the fullness of the legislature. However, for the Members of the House of Representatives it is somewhat difficult, if not impossible, to carry out an analysis of the consequences of regulation, which includes, as a minimum, sections A and E of Article 85. That is why we in this article call 'the present'. Article 3 adds the possibility, with a proposal of at least 10 Members, of introducing a vote to be taken in plenary on the setting up of committees of inquiry. This is an issue that we as a Greek Solution sought and asked for, and we are glad to see, that this amendment takes place on the order of the revised Constitution. This allows transparency to be sought in various manifestations of public life and smaller groups of parliament, and not only by the parties of power, which judge and decide according to the will, as has been proved to date. In Article 3 we say 'yes'. In Rule 4(10) of Rule 156 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we would say that it would be reasonable to amend it at the end of the day in order to continue the investigation against the Ministers. And in this article we say 'yes'. In Article 5, the application of Article 225 of the Criminal Code on false immovable deposit has been abolished, as the relevant article has been repealed in the new Criminal Code, ratified in 2019. And here we are saying 'yes'. Article 7 does not clarify why the positions of posted officials of the IP, TE and TE are being increased in spite of the Secretary-General of Parliament and by two of the special scientific associates of the President of Parliament, while the posters are being removed from office in the Secretary-General, whose officials are automatically transferred, in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2, while we are seeing an increase in jobs. We are saying 'no' here. In Article 10 we say 'yes'. In principle we say 'yes' to the whole of 'yes'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much. Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly understandable that the need for the Rules of Procedure to comply with and harmonise Parliament's Rules of Procedure, both with the changes made to the Constitution and with several legislations of the last period. I will summarise our position, to be within time, against the proposed amendments, with a few brief comments on the articles, starting with the first one. In the context of the debate on the review, our stance on Article 101a has been recorded. We can therefore only vote 'no' on the proposed amendment, which will lead to a reduction in the votes required to place members of the independent authorities. Article 2. We have repeatedly stated that we disagree radically with the regular legality, by means of amendments introduced by the New Democracy. However, in addition to this disagreement and our attitude to the bill of staff of August last year, we agree with the provisions of the second article, especially after the clarifications given at the Tuesday sitting by the President of Parliament, regarding the assistance of the Scientific Office of Parliament, so that proposals for legislation can also be put forward, but also the parliamentary amendments to meet the new criteria, as set out in the new changes. I would agree with what Mr Kegeroglu said that we should, however, be aware in time of what Parliamentary amendments each minister will accept in the bill. He's in his favor. Nevertheless, it is not possible to reject the opposition parliamentary amendments at any time and only to accept co-decision amendments. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] We will also vote in favour of the third article, although we would like to extend the scope to include foreign policy and defence matters, but recognise the importance of exploring possible political responsibilities, but also the need to give Members, especially the opposition, the possibility - since co-existence already has this right - to table a proposal for a committee of inquiry. We'll agree. Nevertheless, we would like further clarification as to what happens if they are tabled within a parliamentary term, more than one proposal for a committee of inquiry. We shall vote against the fourth article, because it is well known and consistently our position that Members should in no way become judges and set up pre-request committees. For this reason, I will not even discuss the proposed changes to Article 4. In Article 5 we shall vote'representations', precisely because the changes proposed - and which seem to be going through - concern both the committees of inquiry, which we are in agreement with, and which is included in the first case, as well as the pre-examinations on which we are vertically opposed and which are included in the second case. We will vote 'yes' in the sixth, as we are talking about moving officials and not new recruitments. This is a move that does not confer any additional advantage on them, neither on the wages nor on the wages themselves. We shall vote 'yes' and on the seventh relating to the entry into force, as already on the subject of adapting to the new data on the amendments and proposals for legislation, we shall see to it that they begin to apply from the beginning of the second part-session of the current parliamentary term, so principles in mid-October. In view of all the above, in principle and in total, as a PART25, we shall vote 'the present'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, thank you very much. I wouldn't take the floor, but in fact I'm forced to take him. Because, under the Rules of Procedure of the House, which we all invoke in this House, the Bureau of Parliament, unfortunately, does not apply. I refer to the speeches made, Mr President. For many years, I have tabled my own motion if you want bitterness and indignation, but also a protest with the procedure that is often followed, when Members of the Greek Solution are speaking to Parliament, there are constant interventions and, most importantly, their speaking time is cut off. In other words, the Presidents of the House are very precise in time. I am not referring to you, Mr President, to other Presidents, but you have had the unfortunate circumstance of being up there now. They're doing it over and over again. I asked the President a number of times and said to him: 'Please be with all my fellow Members fairly.' I would like this story not to continue. Because the regulations are well in place, but they must be applied in every direction. The Rules of Procedure also speak of the questioning of Members and colleagues. I see a lot of colleagues here who come, as everyone wants dressed, sandals, scarves, etc. If we want, I repeat, to speak of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and to look like Caesar's wives, but also to be. And I mean it literally. I would like the Bureau to discuss what I am saying at the Conference of Presidents. You cannot always be fair or fair in Greek Solution many times. Even to me, they do. I have no problem with it, but I want everyone to have the same treatment. I appeal once again, because I have also sent a letter to the President of Parliament, I have said so before. I've given orders to our partners, and we've recorded speech times. There is a colleague here who spoke eighteen minutes, and our speaker, in the same speech, was interrupted by the President of Parliament. These, at least, aren't right things. On the other hand, I'd like to say something about Orban. I'm the last to defend the master philosopher, this authoritarian guy. However, I should like to say that in this Parliament, when the Greeks go through presidential decrees, I should like to say a lot about the three fifths of his parliament. We can't talk about Orban when there are presiding decrees in it. It was done by the previous and the previous ones and by the present ones. So when we have made democracy a hobby, we cannot talk about it. Three fifths of the House gave him the right to behave as a dictator. So when it governs a government, like yours and the previous, by presidential decrees, what do we call that? Let me get this straight. It's the stigma of democracy. And finally, what the President of Parliament said. I am glad that our President of Parliament, together with another seven - eight, are going to ask the President of the German Parliament, Shoeble - because the President of the German Parliament is Shoeble - to do Eurobonds. Listen. As long as we leave Nazi Germany in its behaviour and leadership, which has a Nazi attitude, to salt the whole of the European Union, there will be no Europe in a few years' time. So this Germany has done the worst, two world wars! We gave her the debts, we were very good to her, and unfortunately we fed the monster. And the monster today will break all of Europe. If we want European solidarity, we must leave Germany's logic of Naziism, authoritarianism, above Europe. If it doesn't go away, Shoeble we've got, Merkel we're gonna have Eurobonds anyway. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Does any of the parliamentary representatives want to take the floor? Nobody. The debate on the proposal by the President of Parliament is closed: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and Part II'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole proposal of the President of Parliament and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the proposal, six articles, the hotel article and the whole of the proposal. Make sure that you have voted for the principle, all the articles, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u19	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u20	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, appear on the screens of the Chamber, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u21	Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Party and Part II' was accepted by a majority in principle, the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to give its approval to the Bureau for the ratification of the minutes in respect of the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u23	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring it from 20.3.20 B.C. ‘Association of measures to address the consequences of the COVID-19 spread risk, support for society and entrepreneurship and ensure the smooth functioning of the market and public administration’ (A'68) and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 2 April 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, in the process of organised debate, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u25	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Loverdo, do you want anything procedural?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u28	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u29	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u30	Sure. Mr President, we are debating, as you have said, the agenda for the House. And we will proceed with the procedure you mentioned. Mr President, yesterday - and I think it is the follow-up - the Eurogroup meeting, whose decisions on the future of the Eurozone economy and its Member States are very important. I am told that the Minister of Finance will be coming. So I ask you this: our rapporteur will now take the floor. Will you now or will you give us the opportunity - as we ask you - to open a special cycle, when Mr Stagiras is here, so that all parties - and the Ministry first of all - can be placed for the Eurogroup and to know what it is that we are waiting for today? I would ask you to resolve that now. If you do not make this addition, then you realise that the speeches of most of us will put aside very important and serious issues for our debate today, in order to be detailed and thorough about what is going on in the Eurogroup and what is going to happen. I am aware that things are very serious, as are you, obviously, and I ask you to have this invasive procedure that I have proposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u31	Today is the debate on the MDG.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Loverdo, I can't tell you if Mr. Staruras is coming. I ask the Secretary, who also doesn't know. We are now moving on to the PPP and if the Minister comes and sits, then there will obviously be some sort of settlement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, if you will allow me for a minute, and thank you for your kindness and kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u34	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u35	I heard what the Undersecretary told you today is the day for the PPP. This bureaucracy is not about Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u36	I didn't hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u37	I heard that. It may be administrative, that we have another issue today and that the plenary cannot enter the big and serious issues of the country. I would ask you very much to take into account the seriousness of the proposal we are making and to give some of the approaches to the 'now we have the WFP' style. Today we have the issues that Greece is facing and we have kept Parliament open - quite rightly - so that we can be addressing the Greek people, where it is necessary. Listen, we've got the MDG! Of course, we've got the PNR. But we also have the top issues concerning the framework in which the Greek economy and all the citizens will move in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u38	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese, has the floor on the procedural issue raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President, I will be very brief. I think it is right that Mr Lovers should have the power - especially if the Minister for Finance comes here - for a circle of discussions, through Parliamentary representatives, on matters relating to all of us and in Europe, but it is wrong, clearly, to raise tons. Mr. Undersecretary just said that he's here to support the PPP and nothing more. I think the Bureau of Parliament has shown that it wants parliamentary scrutiny to continue, but also the exchange of views between Government and opposition at all levels. The Prime Minister himself came here last week to inform, listen and engage in dialogue. I therefore think we should be proud of the way in which our parliamentary democracy operates in the midst of a crisis and not to raise tons, for no reason, when we are all practically homogeneous. And I believe that on the subject of Europe too, and that is where we will have an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u40	The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heitas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, thank you. We would also like to take a moment's place on the subject. We too fully agree with the proposal. We think the moments are critical. Of course, the House operates and must function. It was our proposal, anyway, from the start. As soon as this House is working, we must also look at the substance. We've got the PD today. From there on, however, the serious issues are running, the economy is the next day of the pandemic, which we will all be called upon to deal with. The Minister for Finance today needs to be here and we need to discuss this very serious issue. We agree, therefore, that we too absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u42	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me say quickly that, in the opinion of MERA25, the House does not function exactly, it fails. It could be here and take part, operate normally, that time could be perfectly normal, and not half the people, if we used the technology already used by the Prime Minister and the Ministers and all the civilized people in the world, which is teleconferencing technology. I should also like to add that, of course, we agree with the Parliamentary Representative of KINAL, Mr Loverdos, because it is clear that the legislative acts we are voting on or not all of us are very important in this House, but it is even more important that the European Union, in particular the illegal 'territory' that governs it, is today being treated in all the countries of Europe, in the whole of the European South, precisely in the same extortion, brutal, almost at the border of fascist - I would describe it as a way that has been brought to the Greek Government in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u44	SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. It is important that the House operates within this crisis. It is important to send out the message of democratic operation. I would, however, say, while observing the Minister, that we are, of course, here to talk about the MDG, but the MDG is not something cut off. On the other hand, it forms part of an overall policy that is currently being implemented, a policy which depends, on the one hand, on the decisions and choices of the government and, on the other, on the wider European context. And that is what we will agree with the Parliamentary Representative of KINAAL, Mr Loverdos. So it goes without saying that here, in the House, we are talking about everything. A great deal more, at such a critical moment for our country and the Greek people, the government must always keep us informed of the attitude it holds in this negotiation that is under way in the Eurogroup and which will continue. Because this is not a typical issue and it is not exhausted in a post-Eurogroup statement. It is a dynamic process where we want to believe that the government continues to fight with the other countries and for the Eurobond and for the expansion of the measures that the Eurozone must finally take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. The circle of these small interventions of the Parliamentary representatives has been completed. As I said before - and I have not received any orders, nor have I heard anyone - the Bureau is expressing itself - we shall proceed with the procedure provided for in the agenda and if the Minister comes - because then this debate will also have a strong sense - in fact, Mr Loverdos - because you have put it before us, there will be a solution so that the representatives of the parties can also be present. I shall now give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Miltiades Chrysosmallis, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Loverdo, you're right. At the time we are talking, there is an unfortunate Eurogroup, which started on Tuesday and has not been completed. And we hope that all today that continues will be successfully completed for our common interest. But we all know that we are in a problem in the European Union. That's true. On the one hand, we have the European Central Bank - which now, and to stress it, accepts Greek bonds as a guarantee for liquidity - has the will and determination to take out all the weapons at the table, which will be up to EUR 1.9 trillion so that the European Union can maintain its cohesion and meet this crisis. That is why we congratulate her. On the other hand, however, we see in the Eurogroup and not just a politically divided European Union, which does not reflect the logic of the single and solidarity union, but precisely the opposite. At a time when the United States of America has taken out the $2 trillion bazuka, some European states, unfortunately, are seeking new memos in response to the global health crisis. I hope that the basic political logic will prevail. Otherwise, I am very afraid that our generation will see the sweater of European unification completely extinguished. And I think that in a reasonable time this debate must take place. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that a pandemic has affected humanity. From the ancient times until the 20th century, deadly and decisive pandemics for humanity have been many, especially in Europe. The new today is what we are experiencing, that is, a quarantine planet. It is an issue that undoubtedly creates new health, economic, philosophical, social, individual, political and moral issues, which cannot be answered in the way we are thinking today. It is clear that, as modern lifestyles have been structured, there is no possibility that any health system would have been ready to deal with the contagiousness and fatality of this coronary pandemic. We see it daily in our neighbouring countries and in others, such as the United States, in China. The trial and sometimes the collapse of health systems much more advanced countries than we do, the elimination of health professionals, even the sorting of patients, the so-called triage, yet another condition that we have learned in the midst of a pandemic - hard to demonstrate that the effective treatment of pandemic is not just a matter of health resources. It is also a matter of political insight, governmental determination, a question of good governance. Let's be fair. The government and the entire political system as a whole have been faced with a tough dilemma. However, - and this is something you must all recognise, ladies and gentlemen - the Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, has chosen from the first moment that the battle will be given for all human life, even at the expense of the economic life of the country. This is a political choice for this government and the Prime Minister. We have chosen to listen to the specialist scientists' instructions and have not hesitated to make tough decisions in time when other countries were swaying. We did not hesitate to stop the economic life of the place while taking responsibility for the necessary measures to support those affected by the restrictions. The answer to whether the government's choices of choices were met by the Greek people, the cruel reality of the Greek people, as illustrated worldwide on the map of cases, victims and the victims of the murder pandemic, is the same. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are proud that Greece is a model in the countries. And yes, we are proud that the Greek people wisely embraced these difficult choices by Mr Mitsotakis and the government. Of course, these choices do not cease to have created an unprecedented reality for everyone. A reality that changes social behaviors and customs of centuries. A reality, however, which in practice proves the discipline of the Greek people and its adaptability. Meanings such as teleworking, tele-education, the digital operation of the state and the facilitation of citizens in their transaction with it, were not in our vocabulary. Nevertheless, the need to deal with the pandemic and the government's readiness to lay fundamental foundations for the creation of a genuine digital state by applying solutions from digital prescribing to the issue of authorisations. The foundations that I hope will be developed soon so that we can reach a fully digital state. With serious and responsible responsibility, the government continues to manage in addition to the pandemic and the impact of measures on society and entrepreneurship. The aim is to and remains one, not to stay behind the next day. As we have prevented the expansion of the pandemic, so that we can prevent the recession from spreading, strengthen the lost liquidity of businesses, provide all those tools for relaunching the economy and maintaining jobs. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are not apprentices of the economy. On the contrary, we have a plan and a wisdom to adapt it in line with the economic situation. Proof of this is the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, which responds to your criticism of extending the reduction in rent to those who are affected by the pandemic and their workers. Already in March and April, measures amounting to 3.5% of GDP and, together with aid from the ESDP and other European Union funds have been planned to reach 10 billion euros. If we calculate all the measures and the costs caused by the suspension of tax and levy payments, we are talking about measures of EUR 26 billion. Therefore, it is not necessary to build up measures that we have seen in recent years. The Greek people are not interested in who offers most, ladies and gentlemen. All he cares about is feeling the support of the state with substantial measures and sure that the next day will not bring again a new heavy economic crisis. You forget that dealing with both the pandemic and its effects is not a hundred meters long drive. It is a marathon that requires strategic, well-estimated movements, perceptiveness and wisdom in managing our resources. And the government proves itself capable and effective. No one will say that there will be no mistakes, that there will be no omissions, especially when the government's priority remains to protect the lives of all of us. The constructive criticism is welcome. We want her. We're listening to her. Another criticism, however, and another revolutionary gymnastics, to which you are indulging. This is not the time, ladies and gentlemen. Don't you see the world war that is tempting material supplies, the piracy in their means of transport? The sterile and ideological opposition has nothing to offer to the good of the country, especially when nothing has yet been judged and we have a path ahead of us. And listen to something. His hate rhetoric, the political stimulation of vulnerability was condemned. Exercise of the anti-dumping duty on imports of urea originating in the People's Republic of China You've split, fooled, fantasized, fooled, humiliated. You were defeated in 2019. I see some people are trying to bring back the same recipe. Now withdraw them from the public speech, gentlemen of SYRIZA, because otherwise the Greek people will completely withdraw you. Not that I care, I'm telling you, because you're a Dedicated Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a given fact that our country still has a way to go both in dealing with pandemic and its consequences. The fourth legislative act that we are currently dominating is a key tool, a key point and another tool in this process. It includes measures such as the EUR 800 allowance, the reduction of the rent of businesses and workers by 40%, the suspension of insurance contributions, the acceleration of tax and VAT refunds, the strengthening of the EGE and the health system, the facilitation of donations, digital facilities for obtaining recipes or administrative documents, market regulations and, of course, the imposition of strict quarantine. I urge you to stand up and support it with your vote. Support the positive measures that protected the country from the expansion of the pandemic and entrepreneurship from the dissolution of economic life. We must provide our fellow citizens with the assurance that both the executive and the legislative authority of the place will do their utmost to ensure their health and their future. We have to prove to those who have encouraged their donations to support the country's health system that we are not going to give up on it. We must have a plan, a rational one, and have the insight to prevent developments from happening again, ensuring the future of the country. The Government of the New Democracy is here, present. He's blaming needs, he's listening to criticism, he's taking new measures. The government's here, we're here, so we don't let anyone feel like he's experiencing this pandemic alone. In conclusion, we must all - I think - a great thank you to the anonymous heroes of everyday life, who support this country's efforts on the night night, to people who have no working hours, do not have an unscrupulous fight and give this titanic struggle without protest. I mean the public sector workers with the low-priced and cut-off wages, as well as the private sector workers, the self-employed, the farmers and all our fellow citizens, who are unscrupulously plucking over me. Thank you very sincerely! We are here for Greece, for all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr George Tsipras, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in an unprecedented international parliamentary crisis and all governments have a responsibility to deal with this crisis by protecting human lives first of all, but also to protect society as a whole from the primary and secondary consequences. It is a matter of restrictive measures on which there is also a question of individual responsibility, but also of State responsibility. It seems that when the measures were taken together with the rest of Europe in the case of ours, the Balkans and Eastern Europe, these measures were timely. In the case of many Western European countries it was already too late. Overall, the European Union seems to have been late, did not act in time, did not anticipate the dispersion of the pandemic when on week 10 to 16 March the decisive measures were taken to close down schools and so on. And we all took it together. But that's just one step and it's one forehead, the restraining measures. There is the issue of the public health system for which there have been very different policies for a decade and there has been a great political controversy within the framework of memorandum policies that have been conducted by 2015 and there is the question of the economy. The new Republic's rapporteur was quoted in the two trillion bazuka from the United States. Bazukas, dear colleague, there are also in Europe. There is more than 30% of Germany's GDP package and all the others, 10%, 15%, 20% of GDP, many European countries. Greece, unfortunately, has remained at 3.1% of GDP. Why are the other countries taking such large packages? Aren't they close? They're tight. The reason is simple. In normal times, they are generally undisturbed or must remain undisturbed - it is a sign of economic health - all cashiers. One who has to pay, in other words, for the goods and services he receives and even if it comes to a difficult position is the banking system, at least for those who have access to the banking system, and in a windscreener he undertakes to cover any blow, or the economy or every business. In this case we have the problem that we have a huge reduction of up to zero in many areas of these cash flows. This is where state intervention is necessary. Another big debate on how much the state and the economy need. I'm not opening it. It is therefore necessary to intervene in the state and that is why the packages are so great. They do not come to deal with those who have just been hurt, someone who has no money and needs a little more money. They are going to face precisely the fact that the biological pandemic is not transformed into an economic pandemic for the launch of redundancies, closure of businesses, default of payments, default of lending and so on. There is a need for measures to be taken. Plus, they have to create a feeling of trust that companies operating until yesterday even if they are not working today will be able to operate after two to three months after the end of the broor. Here, then, you do not have any bazooka and you follow a logic "seeing and doing" on the pretext of having a marathon in front of us and dealing in a symptomatic way with any symptoms. It is for granted that you will also lead the Greek economy to a much greater recession than we would have had before, just as the other countries of the European Union are trying to catch up, and above all that what will be required after two, three, four, five months will be much more, the cost will be much higher, so that the economy can come back and unfortunately will not come back. A few days ago it was announced that an additional 12 billion for the Portuguese economy was approved by the European Union. How many were approved for the Greek economy? Two billion has been approved. So much has been requested to be approved. Don't we need more than that? No one has claimed - and in the proposal we have tabled - to start sharing money. That's not the point. The point is that all businesses and the economy feel that there are credit lines not from the outside, but internally, from the Greek banking system, from the various organisations and state authorities, there are cash and credit lines such that they can't fire workers and keep all businesses alive for the next day. Instead, what do you apply? Financing and subsidising unemployment with the EUR 800. In fact, you say in the case of undertakings,'remove'. You cover workers for a very short time, you say to businesses 'pay for half a year' and, in fact, what you are doing is speed up a course of economic pandemic. Unfortunately, we will see very quickly the consequences of this policy. So SYRIZA says nothing more than what all the countries in Western Europe and all the countries in the euro area are trying to implement. Either you have no idea what the threat is and what the danger is in front of us or this danger has not come to Greece. But, unfortunately, he's come. I'll come to that. First of all, with legislative acts, and with the current one, there is a huge inadequacy in dealing with the health problem in the field of strengthening the public health system and, above all, there is a lack in addressing economic issues. Before going through the individual articles, I will make a general remark. Not all over the European Union, but on the basis of the pandemic problem, the state aid scheme has been lifted, this is also a formal decision, and a number of countries are taking measures for a number of firms in difficulty. Some are not problematic now with pandemics, but they were also problematic and take this opportunity to strengthen their own businesses. Some, like the Germans, are getting to power with hundreds of billions of state-owned development banks to buy shares from private companies and have officially announced that they will also protect their companies from takeover from foreign groups. As far as our own firms are concerned, I am referring specifically to RAS, ELVO, port agencies, Elefsina and Scaramaga shipyards, but even PPC has so far not announced any measures at all. On the contrary, various deadlines have been set for workers' payments, which had so far been regulated in a certain way, without any new measures being announced. The articles: firstly, as far as rents are concerned for the 40% reduction planned for companies which have been closed by a government order are concerned, we do not see any extension in other cases, firstly, workers who work half the wages or who have been made redundant at this time or who take the eighth-seat-loss, as well as in a number of enterprises who have not been closed down after a state mandate, but are facing huge financial problems. Secondly, you are not facing the problem of the owners who will receive smaller rents. Article 9 is the scandalous article I was talking about before where it actually allows less pay. First of all, the Greek economy will face a huge problem and then even if you take the measures you need to take and we are not at all reassured about whether these measures are temporary, as you say they will be abolished in a few months, it is also a matter of their own. But, above all, it is unacceptable, as I said, how you deal with the issue. There's SURE. It has already been financed with EUR 100 billion by the European Union and the logic of this programme, which is huge and can cover Greece very well, is precisely to cover all wages, at least by a very large part, 70%, 80% or even 100%, so that even if workers work less than they work within the company, that is, without redundancy, their entire wages. Article 21 concerns outright speculation. In fact, the shamefulness of what has become of primary need in the light of the health crisis that we are facing has not been addressed. What you are actually doing is not to have more profit margins, but the state has not taken its own responsibility, firstly, to import, secondly, to management, thirdly, to pricing and even to produce such kinds of first need, and there is that possibility. There's no step in this field. Article 23. Import of denatured ethyl alcohol. You have anticipated this - and it is right to anticipate it - but there is absolutely no provision for a ban on exports. Until February, there were exports of ethyl alcohol and I do not know whether they were continued in March, because no relevant data have been published. Article 13. It is an example of an article, because there are others that have nothing to do with the pandemic and the degraded situation that we are facing. You are using it in this case, in order to effectively remove a specialty for doctors. Even now that businesses are closing down, as this is the trend today and therefore there is a less need for working doctors, you are actually abolishing this specialty and making it available to other doctors. You need to get this behind MDG, too, just like the article about half the paycheck. Article 44. While we had foreseen in our own law that EGE was founded, an extraordinary five-day procedure for extraordinary recruitment tenders, you with Article 44, without any reason whatsoever, except for sinful reasons, as was the old CEDEFOP, the present EGE, have provided for an exceptional procedure, completely opaque, which could well be covered by the existing legislation. I come to Articles 24 to 31 on digital policy. Very hastily, very quickly, because no steps had been taken in the past seven or eight months, you are moving towards a certain identification of those with digital media must identify themselves at various digital gates of the public, without having anticipated a second identification factor, which raises major security issues. With Article 34 on direct awards for issues of the Ministry of Digital Policy, you are going beyond the limit of EUR 60,000, and so, as I have pointed out, there may be awards for much more. This is an extremely worrying development. A framework for the award of computer projects is being liberated completely, and one can only assume that the way is opened for much more parties and larger dimensions. At the worst, you could at least provide for the setting-up of intergroup committees, namely a intergroup committee, and for this reason, as well as for a number of other issues, where special attention needs to be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u50	Finish it, please. You have exceeded 50% of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u51	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the Health Ministry's amendment to Article 1 is concerned, you are abolishing a provision of the SYRIZA Government which has facilitated the better distribution of personnel within a hospital. Especially in the light of the health crisis, it is impossible to see what the problems in the provision are, which you vaguely refer to in the explanatory statement. Article 2 abolishes the provision of the SYRIZA Government which intended to increase control through the IOF in non-interventional studies, which, as is well known, are an area of corruption and interest promotion, without any justification, without any assessment of the impact of the provision and of course without any consultation with society and institutions. The abolition of this provision returns us to a regime of opaqueness and lawlessness in the field of clinical studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u52	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. In total, with the bill you are downloading, which includes the MDG, there are measures that are in the right direction, measures which are absolutely inadequate, both as far as the health field is concerned and as far as the economy is concerned. And the worst of all is that there are measures which are completely the wrong direction, such as the relevant article with half the wage for half the job, but also measures which you find the opportunity, in the midst of the pandemic, without having anything to do with extraordinary replacement, to proceed to measures which you could not just take over the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u55	Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u56	I asked for the floor in relation to what Mr Loverdos rightly said a moment ago. After communication with the Minister of Finance - I think he himself spoke with him - Mr Stavros may come to make a very brief statement, that is to say, interrupt the communications he has now, about an hour from now, it is enough for us to commit the parties to the fact that it will be our speeches brief and the questions briefly of the order of two minutes, because he will not be able to be ready for the evening debate in the Eurogroup. If the honourable Members agree, we shall notify him about an hour from now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u57	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u58	The Bureau has been informed of this and agreed first. It is a good task to keep the time, because the Minister today has a very strict procedure for the country. Well, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, because I have been misunderstood before, you will give me the floor for a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u61	Maybe Mr. Loverdos didn't hear what I said. I said before that we are going to start the MDG and contact the Minister, to clarify whether or not he can come, because this is all in progress. That is what I said before, and there was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u62	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u63	She was out of a microphone and you didn't understand what I said. I said we were going to start MDG and contact the Minister. And that's what happened. The Minister will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u64	I think there's no misunderstanding. Explanations were given. That's what you meant, and that's what we all understood. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I cannot say that I feel so comfortable with this system, which has been placed at the moment, but it is necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u66	It is below all my fellow Members, and we must take care of them all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u67	That is the case, Mr President. We really need to adapt and talk that way. This is where we give the House's message. Mr President, I am indeed pleased that the Minister of Finance will come to the House to address these critical points and issues that are being discussed today in the Eurogroup. I'm glad Mr. Loverdos put it and agreed to all parties. I also remember today a professor at the School of Law, who said that the achilles heel of the Union would be only integration. Indeed, it is confirmed. European integration will be a request. And it will be a request, because, if you think about it from the European Coal and Steel Community how we have come to date, we all realize where else we will come from and how much struggle we must make for European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic Europe has an opportunity and has a crucial choice in front of it: Solidarity or neoliberalism with new memos? The pandemic Europe needs a new Marshall European project. So, what does he want? It wants support for public health and welfare systems, it wants support for work and labour rights, it wants support for the weak and the unemployed, it wants support and expansion of the social state, because our coronary pandemic affects all of us, but it does not affect us - and I will say this - all of us equally. And what do I mean? I mean, Mr President, that the coronary is a virus of inequality in terms of its effects. The effects on the economic sector are not burdened by the same, but are more burdensome to the economically weak and, of course, will cause further disparities in the future. And as a virus of inequality, in this sense, we must fight him even more. That is why, with the parliamentary instruments we have as a movement of change, we stress that a number of our fellow citizens are so far excluded from the measures you have taken as a government, Minister, and that is why they are in danger. They are unprotected pensioners pending their retirement decisions, including persons with disabilities. We have proposed that the state immediately ensure a one-off pension. So far, Minister, our proposal has fallen into the void. They are unprotected and four hundred seventy thousand long-term unemployed. They are unprotected and forgotten several employees in the food and tourism sector, but also workers in small businesses located in tourist areas or dependent exclusively on tourism. It is unprotected for farmers who are affected at many levels, for workers with a mistress, for builders, for loan workers and for contract workers, if the company, i.e., with a direct employment relationship, is not in the CAR. They are unprotected artists, long-term job workers and there are too many and specific ones, as well as the members of fellow companies and others. In these cases, Minister, we have proposed that an additional decision be taken immediately to strengthen this category of unemployed and affected, but so far the government has not responded. In a particularly unfavourable situation, too, I would point out that people with disabilities have been cut off by the OPECA. I am referring to a scientific prognostic allowance received by blind scientists and to an allowance for people receiving orphan’s pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to all of this, we have warned the Government that labour rights are currently being circumvented. There are already many cases where employers' arbitrariness calls both firms affected and others which are not considered affected. I have described the banks that require workers to work weekends without being paid. I note very clearly that pay cuts are being reduced as a temporary measure in IT enterprises where workers work at home and private sector employees are forced to pay unpaid leave. A characteristic example is the pilots of ‘AEGEAN’. The measure announced yesterday by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and relates to the fine to employers, in the event of a breach of the conditions for the suspension of a contract of employment of workers, we consider that it is in the right direction. We told him from this Chamber last week at our question. He didn't talk at all. He didn't answer us. But we are pleased that the Minister for Labour has adopted our views, even if he does not call us. We don't care. We are pleased that the government adopts the proposals of the Change Movement. However, we are saying today that the RDP must be strengthened, but also that there must be safeguards applied to the proper application of the measures. Without a reinforced mechanism for protecting workers, it is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that arbitrariness at their expense will be without end. The rules adopted by the Government to the vote, the famous Article 9 of the Act of Legislative content which provides for the possibility of operations with safe operation personnel and allows unilateral and non-cooperation of labour rights, do not fit in at such times. As is also unacceptable, the attempted changes in the workplace of doctors with Article 13 of the Act of Legislative Action are unacceptable. We will submit to the minutes the document of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and also the document of the Hellenic Society for Health and Environment, which is contrary to this direction and regulation. We fully support their objections and their views. As a movement of change you know that we have strongly criticised Article 9 and tabled an amendment to that effect. We invite you once again, Minister, to get it back. We tell you this not with tiny or tiny logics. But we tell you, because we think about people who lose or lose their jobs. We are considering an entire generation that has not yet overcome the crisis in 2008, experiences this crisis, now making precarious at all levels its marginal ontological characteristic. The great war will begin on the next day of the pandemic over the reconstruction of the economy and society. The next day's bet is the impact of the crisis on the ordinary suspects, employees, pensioners, small and medium-sized free professionals, should be shared on a fair and fair basis. The social costs in the country are huge. We're already about to see the first year without normal tourist season. There'll be hundreds of thousands of people without work who might be staying like this for a while. Small businesses are not sure they will withstand. Branches all face difficulties. The international environment is certainly difficult. Europe seems to be facing the greatest crisis in its history. This time, of course, the crisis is not only economic but also structural, challenging the core of the European Union, due to the weakness shown by its Member States - and in particular the North - to find a way of dealing with the economic consequences of the spread of the coronary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Germany's persistent refusal to create a Eurobond, together with its demand for assistance to be accompanied by measures, seems to lead to a dead end, putting the European Union on difficult paths. There, then, we must build serious alliances, not just alliances for photographs, but essentially. For us, there is, first of all, a real gain: budgetary constraints do not apply to 2020, banks and the Greek economy have unlimited access to cash and, of course, we are involved because of the crisis in quantitative relaxation, the QE. The Government must make use of all the financial instruments provided by the European Investment Bank and the ESRB. These supposed gifts were given to our country to face the throat for which it is objectively unresponsible. The next day, however, ladies and gentlemen, seems to be hiding too many traps for the European Union. In order to withstand this cost, the government must now plan, not in a deep month, but much more, with a long-term perspective. European governments, centralised or centre-right governments, taking advantage of the relaxation of the Stability Pact, are establishing horizontal measures to keep jobs and limit the damage to their economy. The Government of the New Democracy, so far, is establishing some positive measures, but they are fragmentary. He must take even more bold measures. He must draw up an integrated plan and present it to society and the people in good time, so that we can understand that we can withstand the pandemic and that the costs will be specific from it. Of this, however, the comprehensive draft we are proposing cannot be left with seven targeted proposals, which the Change Movement has done. First sentence. There must be a programme to stimulate liquidity, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, with state-guaranteed loans. Second sentence. There must be a programme of substantial support for farmers and primary production within the crisis, with a single perception of the process of production, processing and marketing, with a boost to liquidity and a suspension of payment of debts, with integration into the protection measures of all CSRs corresponding to the primary sector. Mr President, the ginners cannot be part of the CIS and cotton growers cannot be part of the CAR. It is important that the state buy products directly from producers and make them available to the economically weak, people who do not have the necessary to live. And, of course, we need to see the phenomena of the flood that many rural areas have suffered. We need to see in Boeotia the great problems that exist and that of the three hundred thousand acres of the Copean Field, most of them have been flooded and the farmers have suffered a great deal of damage. We need to see the place of Kopaida, the place of the Tebes, the place of Barbarians, the place of the upper rue of Kifissus. Third sentence. There must be measures for businesses and tourism workers. Fourth proposal. There must be a protection net for the workers, the unemployed and the retired. No one suffers wage and pension cuts. Minister, you must now tell the House whether there will be a reduction in wages and pensions, as various 'pads' say. He needs to make that clear, and I'd be happy to say that because you're undermining. It has to be clear today. Six sentences. To put an end to the issue of extending the auctions. There should be protection of first residence. Seventh sentence. Recognise the health and workers of the National Social Care System, the welfare units, including the units of the “Help at Home” and the CSTD. We have tabled a specific amendment. We ask that they join the heavy and unhealthy professions. Why has the private sector been included and not these people, which is what you are adopting and we are all admitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u68	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. They are in the front line these people who serve the National Health System and are out of heavy and unhealthy professions. Today, this has to be done here from the House. Also, Minister, you must grant the emergency allowance as a practical recognition to all those working in the National Health System, the National Social Care System, the EKT, the "Help to Home", the Security Body and the Armed Forces who are in the front line and also in civil protection. Unfortunately, the government continues...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u70	You've closed, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u71	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u72	You'll need a minute, but you've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u73	It's the timing of things we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u74	All right, you've said it in detail. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u75	Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute. We say that, unfortunately, the government continues its policy of benefits as opposition. Now, the fair reward for the health and other auxiliary staff of the RIS has been converted into a one-off payment of Easter allowance, equal to half the wage which, with the legal reservations, ends in "anti-duty". So we need to look at these very seriously. We have retabled the amendment on heavy and unhealthy professions, and we therefore ask that those sectors that I have mentioned should be included in them. We ask you to finally place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u76	There's no more time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u77	I conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u78	No, no, Mr. Comrade. You don't end up. I see many pages in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u79	That's all I'm closing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u80	Shut up! You've said it all. You made programming statements! In any case, there must also be some respect for time. Shut up. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u81	We note the positive of Article 5, which refers to the arrangements for cooperation between the EEAS and the EDPS. It is indeed a very positive arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u82	Good. You've come to an end! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's enough, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u83	No text, Mr President. The proposal of the Change Movement will always be on the increase in the conditions that exist today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u86	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is constantly improving its framework for measures, including new categories of citizens. In this context, the amendment, with a general number of 258 and a special number 28, provides for the extension of the partial exemption regulation to 40% of all the companies included in the SMRs that have been designated as being affected by the koruna by my recent ministerial decisions. This amendment also provides for the extension of the measure to workers whose contract of employment was suspended due to the fact that the undertaking in which they are employed has been affected. This is a necessary and proper intervention based on equality and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. I invite the special speaker of the JRC, the Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Not only the JRC's health measures, but in total government measures are completely inadequate and, indeed, many are in a dangerous direction at the expense of workers and the people. Thus, the Government continues with fast track procedures in the name of the emergency to adopt parallel counter-measures. Of course, the anti-government list is still going on with the MIP we are discussing today, giving new flexibility to the employer. Firstly, the possibility of using 50% of the staff of an undertaking for at least two weeks a month with half the earnings. It is a disgusting counter-court measure, which is based on ‘the firm's own safe operation’. Secondly, not only does the Government not ban all redundancies at the same time, since it makes it clear that the clauses on job protection do not concern the so-called voluntary departures, as thousands of forced resignations are being baptized or the terminations and non-renewable fixed-term contracts. Indeed, in order to circumvent the clause, companies maintain the same number of employees, but move on to a reduction in employment, therefore workers' wages, by imposing parttime or rotating work and others. Thus, the cases of employers' arbitrariness and the complaints of employees on matters of industrial relations, wages, protection measures at workplaces and permits have hit'red', while the Labour Inspectorate in each area is literally absent. Thirdly, Article 10 of the Legislative Act allows the transfer of workers from an undertaking to a group, by converting the worker into a ball, without any guarantee of his rights, even bypassing the workers' annoying reactions, for example in the recent OTE and the Piraeus Bank. Fourthly, with the ‘cheese’ of EUR 800 for a month and a half, the Government allows undertakings that continue to operate to suspend the employment contracts of part or all of their staff. So next to the "weapons" of employers, availability, rotating work and more, one more is added: to send workers at home massly - under Article 11 - to exempt employers from their payroll and whenever they want to reuse their workforce or not, depending on their business interests. Fifthly, in the name of the exceptional needs of the period, you can give the possibility of further breakthroughs and strikes not only at working hours, since employers can impose unilaterally overtime even when the ceilings for overtime have been exhausted. While in a number of sectors you are giving employees the right to work on Sundays and holidays, taking another step towards hitting Sunday holidays. Sixthly, of course, the repressive measures that always accompany the anti-grassroots and anti-popular measures of all governments with various pretexts could not be missed. So now, on the pretext of pandemic, the Government has found the opportunity under Article 12 of the MDG to legislate on the measure of suspending the ban on political empowerment and any form of order during a strike, as well as the ban on public meetings of more than ten people, presenting them as necessary for the non-dispersal of the coronary virus which, however, are directly related to the legislation already in place in the scars before the pandemic, in order to prevent and suppress claims, protests, strikes, strikes, workers' struggles against anti-population political government, European Union and capital. At the same time, however, the government is not talking about daily squabbling at workplaces, factories, supermarkets, banks, hospitals that are potential outbreaks of virus dispersion. We call, as in committee, for the withdrawal of the unacceptable Article 12 of the legislative act to be withdrawn. This is why the government's words of sympathy for workers who are at the forefront of the battle, not only for health workers, are hypocrisy, on the one hand, as long as the state does not take responsibility for essential measures to protect workers and on the other hand, as long as it tries to impose fish silence on those who are protesting and claim solutions to the acute problems, for example the public health system, as was done in the "Evangelism", but also in Thessaly, Volos, Trikala, Karditsa, with police intervention on those who are mobilizing either because they are losing their job or because they are forced to change their working relations negatively. And just at this critical period, which requires substantial health protection measures as a whole, as well as measures to protect health from occupational risks, the Government comes with Article 13 of the Act of Legislative content to implement a consistent request from BSE and VDUs, effectively cancelling the specialty of medical work. It abolishes previous restrictions and enables doctors who have not qualified in it to exercise their expertise. This is clearly an anti-scientific and dangerous approach and an attack on expertise. We call for the withdrawal of Article 13. We believe that occupational medicine should be practiced by qualified doctors. It is necessary to increase the specialisation places, to call and to recruit immediately occupational doctors and to create, for example, working departments in hospitals, in industrial areas, to form a state body of occupational doctors and safety techniques, to abolish private ITS and doctors exercising the expertise without having been qualified and not placed on the relevant lists directly to facilitate specialisation in order to exercise it, as is the case with any other medical expertise. We stand alongside doctors, nurses, all workers and their efforts to cope with this difficult situation, as well as their claims to have adequate and suitable weapons in their fight. Because the well-known situation in the public health system is a result of the political over time of all governments that make health and medicine available, sacrificing social needs to support capitalist profitability. That is why it is not the current government that can take all the necessary measures to strengthen the public health system, not only at this time when we are going through the pandemic, but also on the so-called 'the next day'. That is why the measures are inadequate. Thus, in the face of the total lack of primary health care and its conscious abandonment over many years, for example, a network of nurses is being set up, the KOMY, under Article 44 of the MDG, to carry out the tests for coronary virus, etc., with an end date, however, of these workers, in a quarter or four-month period. Why don't you even hire them five hundred nurses? It's a drop in the ocean, of course. But why don't you hire them as permanent, full-time and full-time staff to serve health centers and perform their role as primary health care units, part of which are mobile care units such as home-to-house examination? We believe that this is a regulation which has a fragmentary and limited character. In addition, where such staff, as referred to in the article, have the possibility to train staff, for example in the ICMs, in conditions where the pandemic is evolving, because they are not recruited as permanent staff and at the same time, because of the conditions in which the private sector ICUs have infrastructure, experienced staff, etc.Huh? [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] Of course, what you are promoting has nothing to do with organized primary health care, staffed with permanent staff, doctors, nurses, social workers, psychologists and other necessary qualifications. Now, on the occasion of today's debate, we want to highlight the serious issue of medical care for patients with chronic health problems. These are hundreds of thousands of people who today are excluded from the necessary diagnostic tests and treatments. Due to the risk of coronary dispersion, the operation of the external hospitals was suspended. The instructions are that people don't go to hospitals for no good reason. In other words, you have given instructions on what patients should not do with chronic illness, but, at the same time, you have not ensured where and how they will face serious health problems. For example, there are many people who are in the process of controlling cancer or not and people diagnosed with cancer who need to operate or start radiation treatments or chemotherapy treatments. As you can see - and we all understand -, in such or similar other cases any delay can lead to serious complications or even to a possible uncontrolled situation for the patient's own lives. We believe that, without delay, you must give a solution, take out of the carantine - the decommissioning, essentially - of hospitals, clinics and laboratories, so that all appropriate protection measures can be taken to deal with all these cases of our fellow human beings. Health centres and regional hospitals must be strengthened immediately in order to deal with all patients who do not need to contact hospitals. All self-employed doctors, taking into account the exceptional circumstances of the epidemic, must also be included in this process. In these circumstances, therefore, it is unacceptable that, instead of all health care, the government should be responsible for full work with all protection measures, an important part of the fact that it is not working or yet - which is - decommissioned. Similarly, we have heard nothing about what measures have been taken, what plans are there for the health coverage of institutions hosting chronic ills, heavy disabled children or for the hospitals of disabled persons, mental patients or for boarding houses, nursing homes, nursing homes either in the public or in the private sector. There too, a number of interventions are needed in terms of staffing, the measures and the necessary protective equipment. Nor should it be taken care of the severely disabled and elderly people who are alone in the homes who are unable to serve themselves or are their families unable to support them? But, in the face of all these and all the issues that existed beforehand, but with the state of the pandemic that was created, they may become more acute for our people, in order to strengthen with a few millions -11 million - the media, legislate in fast-track procedures this 11 million-dollar gift, of course, on the grounds of the promotion of messages for the pandemic. We denounce this action. Instead, they could be forced to show free of charge these pandemic advertising spots. Finally, Mr President, we believe that the workers, the people, are entitled to protection from the pandemic and not to silence, but to strengthen their voice for substantial measures to protect their health and their rights. Because if something is confirmed by the measures which the government is enacting in the name of the emergency, it is the multiformal reinforcement of its employment and immunity, while the measures for workers are insufficient, 'fresh' for the hundreds of thousands of workers who remain without income and 'fly' mockery for those who are fired or for those who are now working with all kinds of flexible employment relationships. The government has a huge responsibility. Because the coronary may not stand out for people, but the effects have a class mark and what will happen tomorrow is judged for the people, whether or not it will remain in a carantine or unfold its counter-response. So he's in his hand. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u90	Could I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u91	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make it clear to Mr Loverdos that the amendment I have previously supported in its scope, which provides for the extension of the partial exemption regulation to 40% of the payroll, including lawyers, all scientists - free traders.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my introduction, let me refer once again to Diesel - Gate, on the occasion of yesterday's attempt to answer Mr Georgiadis to a timely question about why Greece is not asking for compensation, like many other countries, while being threatened by the European Union itself with a fine because it is not doing so. And I've submitted the proof in the Minutes. Also, why does it not support the car owners of the German industry to demand compensation due to them, when there is already a decision by the Greek court which guarantees EUR 5,200 to a car owner of VolkSWAGEN? That, too, I tabled to the Minutes. The answer, of course, which he did not give me, despite the fact that he had assured me that I was right, is very simple: the fear and the head that the German Government is facing. I repeat: the fear and the head that the German Government faces with. I would remind you here that the responsible Minister of Justice of the Greek Governments has not yet signed the judicial decision on compensation for the crimes of the nazis in Distomo, and so that the descendants of the victims through Italy seek their justice. In addition, I am obliged to respond to the Minister's insulting comment on his second-guess, because I have not had the opportunity from the Rules of Procedure to lose my seriousness when I say nonsense about the sale of PPC because it has losses of EUR 1 billion that it cannot even sell. In order not to waste time in plenary, I will submit to the Minutes an article by the former Governor of PPC, Mr Athanasopoulos, on mismanagement since then - 2008, I mean - and now I mean government whether or not it should be privatised by asking him to read it. Mr. Athanasopoulos was a member of the New Democracy, so it's something he should read. I would therefore ask him to read it, only by saying that it is impossible for a monopoly company to go bankrupt, except by incompetent governments, which is evidenced by the Minister's answer that he does not even find a buyer. For example, if there was only one kiosk in the whole of Athens and therefore, a monopoly, only a fool could go bankrupt. On the other hand, she does not wonder how it is possible in a country similar to Greece, such as Portugal, for her PPC to operate with great annual profits and for her to be assessed with EUR 13.5 billion yesterday, as I will also present in the Minutes. I repeat, 13.5 billion euros an evaluation against much less than 1 billion Greek PPC after so many hardships. Because of incapacity should we therefore sell such public utility operations? In fact, when will the examination promised by the New Democracy in an election campaign for the SYRIZA NOM scandal be carried out? Never, of course, since SYRIZA would require an examination of its own, the polluter clause it signed in 2013, causing twice as much damage to the company as the NOMEs. However, as the Minister said, we are so useless that not only can we profit from PPC, but we can't even build protection masks. I wonder why he is willing to rule such a useless country that he cannot build any protective masks! With regard to the current MDG, which is already being debated in advance, since it has already been published in the Official Journal of the Government, in Article 2 on the reduction of rent, we said that at least the owner of the property should be relieved of the fact that he pays for these months and the difference between him and his tax declaration, although the right thing would be to be compensated by the State, as it is otherwise to create private property, such as the requirements on the islands for the structures of immigration. The government must finally decide whether it is in favour of the free market or not, since it wants to be on two boats, that is to say, left with a tie, it will prove to be disastrous for our economy. The main thing we have all demanded is that Article 6 should be withdrawn, in which it wants to support businesses with the Public Investment Programme. The Public Investment Programme should be used for development purposes and should not be treated as a financial 'injection'. Basically, with these measures of 5 billion, the Public Investment Programme, which is only ECU 6.75 billion in total, is being used. Furthermore, if the co-financed part is used we risk imposing fines on us by the European Union for the non-timely promotion of projects, in which there are significant progress, such as the Athens-Patras railway line and the E65. As regards Article 8, we wondered what purpose was actually decided to hold seminars, where the answer we did not receive is self-evident to all: 'to serve the customer state'. In Article 17 we said that it would be imposed on disinfectants from a European Union country we never expected. However, there should be alternative production of ethyl alcohol from other products, such as from the Greek Sugar Industry which already produces ethyl alcohol in Serbia, and our governments have also been bankrupt by their incredible mismanagement. In Article 21 we said that the margin of profit is being consolidated as a means of limiting speculation. However, there is nothing wrong with open markets, since greediness can be done from abroad, such as mediators for the import of masks into the United States, which, from 50 cents previously demanded, are now calling for five dollars, that is ten times greater. We all know the triangular transactions that are difficult to control. The most important thing would be to support domestic production even for masks or artificial breathing machines that the European Union today allows for subsidies, as we will also present in the Minutes. As far as articles in the third section which continue to digitize the central administration are concerned, we wondered why it is necessary to become at this time of pandemic and with PPP. In Article 33 for the teleconferences, we proposed that they be limited since they are considered counterproductive, based on the experience of companies, and they cannot and should not replace democratic processes with the physical presence. Besides, it is important that the presence in the House, especially at difficult times, is so that people feel that life continues, that it takes courage. People need to take courage, so the presence of all of us in the House. We have seen in Article 34 that these are direct awards, as are some others. Generally, we do not welcome arbitrariness, nor do we consider that the present situation is such an emergency that the laws can be circumvented, let alone when the Prime Minister criticises the concentration of powers by Orban, there should not be a financial limit to commissions? In Article 59 we had no objection to the extent that it relates to university clinics and laboratories, while several laboratories have been offered to carry out tests. However, we have asked for the cost of the examinations, as well as hospitality, mainly to be paid to private institutions. However, in the letter from the universities - which we will also present in the Minutes - something is mentioned about a scandalous 30 million contract that we would like to see answered. Of course, we assume that it is like the 11 million for the media, including to manipulate the New Democracy through polling. In continuing, Article 62 needs to be changed. This is a scandalous provision for disseminating public money into the media, for information on the coronary, which should be free, and the disposal made by a decision of the Secretary of State for Communication and the Ministry of Finance is scandalous, let alone when the government asks shipowners for donations to hospitals. We understand, of course, that the press must be supported, especially the publication that is now affected, as do the regional authorities. But this must never be done by ministerial decision. It is a great dependence on power and it murders objectivity. In Article 65 we welcome the adoption of our proposal for educational television. But we would like to point out that this is an opportunity to improve the infrastructure and content of teaching so that it also embraces the students of the family abroad who want to keep in touch with Greece. Finally, in Article 71 it is very positive that the construction of the fence continues in Evros, since at least it gives a message. We would like to extend the whole border line, and also to replace it later with a cement wall, as the Turks have at their borders with Syria about 700 kilometres long, and it is considered that the European Union has given part of this money to build this particular wall. PASOK, however, built the fence - good for it! - and we hope KINAL will continue the same line. Finally, we call again for VAT reductions for basic foodstuffs. It is necessary, firstly, for low incomes and, secondly, to maintain low inflation, since we see that, in the first few days, inflation has increased by 6% with the first statistics. 'Koron - bonds', however, we do not see that there will be a koruna - memorials for sure! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u96	I'm calling to Stepma the special pupil of Mera25, Mr. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating another act of legislation which comes to legislation, which has been taken to limit the dispersion and consequences of the pandemic. In the last debate I dealt with some of the provisions. Today I'm going to focus on the rest. In Article 37 of the MDG, with provisions relating to the Ministry of the Interior and the MDGs, although the majority relates to reasonable extensions, what made it seem to us is the provision of the third point that the Court of Auditors will proceed to a pre-contractual audit of legality when we have exceeded the threshold, which is set at EUR 900,000. We are really wondering how this limit was chosen. Where is it supposed that a contract under 900,000 does not need to be audited? In Article 37 and in terms of human resources issues in the public sector, given the current situation, we consider it reasonable to allow the hours of operation of a public service to be fixed by a decision of the relevant Minister, as is the same logic as the recruitment of temporary staff to the structures of refugees. Expected and in accordance with the other restrictions we consider the provision of Article 39 for health committees, which should take action within their sphere of competence, without requiring the person concerned to be present. Perhaps the possibility of televised attendance at the meeting may also be extended, even if the person concerned so wishes. We welcome the extension by the forty-fourth article of the possibility of obtaining a special leave for public workers, as well as the development of the pay and pension records of the public authorities referred to in Article 43, so as to facilitate the payment of wages and pensions to public beneficiaries and not to delay precisely because of the pandemic. Article 44: We agree with the establishment of the mobile health teams that will provide nursing care but will also carry out home-based tests, although we believe that the mass tests that are needed for the country to be able to plan and go to the second stage, after the pandemic, are not enough for the five hundred units provided for in this legislative act. But it is a step in the right direction. A little later in the same article, the EGE's call centre is to be strengthened with equipment and human resources. I hope and hope that the people who will strengthen such a neuroalguy for this time - because every day thousands of fellow citizens are communicating with the EGE to take directions and need to receive correct and correct answers - I hope that this human potential will have the necessary training, which unfortunately does not apply until now. Already within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny, I have tabled a question to the Ministry of Health, since, as it emerged from internal e-mails from a large company that came to the public, this company asked its employees to place three hours of daily voluntary work at the EGE's call centre, when a few days before complaints have been made by workers in the same company that are called upon to work under unacceptable conditions, that thousands of workers come to their work with only a measure to prevent their entry into the company's buildings, and they also denounce the frequent lack of antiseptics, the lack of systematic disinfection of their terminals and - most importantly of all - the fact that they work less than one metre away from their colleague in poorly vented rooms, where they end up assembled by thousands of people. Is it not, Minister, that it is the least inconceivable that a company which seems to fail to keep any of the protection measures planned to provide work at the EGE's telephone centre, even on a voluntary basis? And for the second part I have asked you a question, and I sincerely expect your answers to both questions with great interest. Going down now and not going out of time, I move on to Article 46 which provides for the recruitment of unqualified medical personnel under a contract of four months and Article 48 which provides for the transfer of ancillary staff. It would be a good idea to see them because of the pandemic, but we will not stop pointing out that health gaps require permanent staff to be recruited and cannot be covered with sub-optimal recruitment or transfer of ancillary staff or fixed-term contracts. We consider the provisions of Article 51 to be positive for the dispatch of pharmaceuticals with a courier company from the EEA Pharmacies to the beneficiaries. After all, we all remember the tails outside the pharmacy of the organization on Alexandra Avenue, with many of our fellow humans putting themselves at risk in order to obtain their medicines. And let us not forget that most of them are diseased with serious diseases - neoplastic and others - so they are members of vulnerable groups and should be protected. Positive are predictions for the most deprived and uninsured chronic renal failure patients in Article 54. However, we cannot highlight the fact that there has been no provision for support for the most deprived, as well as for our insecure fellow citizens who are often struggling and unable to make a living. Positive to additional hygiene and protection rules on construction sites. However, we would like it to be clearer what sanctions will be for offenders, as well as similar measures for workers in industries and craft industries in our country, and for seafarers for whom no provision has so far been made. I'm on it. Direct contracts may be concluded - apart from all other organizations provided for in previous MDGs - under the present ERT and the Ministry of Education. As I have pointed out to the committee, ladies and gentlemen, the government should in no way think that in the light of the pandemic, the opposition will look the other way in the case of direct contracts and awards. I assure you that we will follow them very closely. All the Greeks who want to do so should be facilitated to come back. You do - I think - he can't disagree with that. We are surprised, however, that the Minister for Civil Protection will oversee the process and not the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Perhaps the New Democracy's answer is that Civil Protection belongs to the Prototype and its Head, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Chardalias, has a political leader, Mr. Chrysochoidis, but still will not give us any impression. As soon as the other articles of the bill are passed, the latter concerns the establishment of a coordinating body for civil protection. It is in line - and we are also in agreement - with the demands of the current period. The third includes some provisions for the staff of the EAW, for example, the granting of annual compensation for purchase or replacement of a staff member's uniform. Of course we agree. The fourth defines the placement of supplementary doctors in specific structures. We are opposed, as I will once again stress the need for permanent staff to be recruited. Fifth article: EEIG providers may provide services to the insured, for example, by providing medicines, which we agree with. Article 6: It stipulates that expenditure on the repayment of hospital obligations is lawful until 21 March, without having been able to sign the contract, provided that it is always within the authorised appropriations of their budgets. We agree with the inclusion of the Twin wall in the barren regions, although we do not really understand why such an article has entered into a draft law by the Ministry of Health. It is likely to be linked to the Evros dam referred to in sub-Article 70 of the MDG. In conclusion, I would like to inform the House that today we have tabled three new amendments for the inclusion of distributors in the heavy and unhealthy scheme - the first - for the integration of health workers into the same scheme - the second - and the third for the provision of special allowances and the third for the provision of special benefits for workers in the supermarkets. They're all these people, all the workers, first-line workers who risk their safety to serve all of us. We are also reintroducing our earlier amendment - which had been rejected at the time - to reduce VAT on the islands by inviting all those Members who say hollow words to their constituencies to support it. Assuming that all four are extremely important, I would ask that they be received. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill containing positive, less positive and negative provisions, such as, for example, the worst of all rotating work and the reduction in wages to 50%. For all these reasons, we will vote 'at present' in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too. I call on the Secretary-General of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsouba, to step in. Wait a minute for this to take place at the Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u99	Good morning! Mr President, I would like to say that it is very positive that this glass which entered here in front of the Step of the House, because it protects the Members of Parliament's Minutes in particular and it was necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday's Eurogroup has not yet come out of white tobacco, and today the bargaining between the Member States may be going on. The contradictions between the Member States may be large and the table have fallen, but the sure thing is that the common denominator of all the different projects from the staff of the European Union and its Member States under the name 'Marshall Plan' is that the workers, the people of Europe, will again pay for this crisis. And that is not going to change either if the loans to support the capitalist economy are made through an ESM, through a Eurobond or anyway via a 'Koro-bond', as some people say, or if there is another compromise, as they call it, so that everyone can say their own to sleep on their own people, because, apart from others, this is the game that is being played. Because the new loans will be directed to support large businesses, to support capital and the account will eventually be sent back to the people on new strict terms and commitments, terms and commitments that they have already made in various European Union countries and are being tested in this test tube of the health crisis which has been built and evolved on the grounds of the coronary. Of course, the debate on the support of the capitalist economy has also been opened in our own country with the various plans falling here at the table. It is first of all New Democracy's government plan, but also the SYRIZA Officer's plan, which despite their individual differences are basically in the same direction. The differences in the proposals of the New Democracy and SYRIZA actually concern only the time and way in which the people are slaughtered to recover the profitability of capital. Such is, for example, the repayment of taxes and contributions from employees and self-employed after the suspension period, as well as the repayment of new loans, new Memorandums, so as to continue to cover State aid and debt obligations. However, we believe it is an attempt to deceive politically of the supposed possibility of exiting a capitalist crisis in this system, without imposing either capital or the workers or the people. So, for example, this famous "xilari" was not the result of the good, effective management performed by SYRIZA, because this supposedly miraculous "xilari" came from the policy of monuments, from the tax bleeding of our people, from the bloody surpluses, from the law - looting - Katrugalos, from the privatisations and goes by saying. Let's see what they're proposing with their plan. They propose a six-month programme, which costs 26 billion and even, as a supposedly progressive measure, put the government's provision for nationalising key sectors of the economy into nationalization. However, no State liquidity-providing measures, smaller or larger, can ultimately cancel the manifestation of the capitalist crisis, precisely because it cannot undo its cause. At the current juncture of the krone, the compulsory cessation of production and, more generally, of economic activity reinforces the trend towards a slowdown in existing investments and a slowdown in the international economy. Neither are the so-called 'nationalisations policy' or the new state involvement in business banking groups, as both liberals and social democrats say, and they are also being embraced here in Greece and New Democracy and SYRIZA - we are not going to solve any problems at all, as they simply move the losses to employees, self-employed persons who permanently raise the main burden, so that they can be delivered again to private shareholders, that is, once they are refined by the state, as we have seen before. It is not a substantial difference between New Democracy and SYRIZA the time to take the measures. Some say that the measures must be taken immediately and as a large overall package, called 'frontloaded programme', because otherwise there will be much more need for measures and difficulties to return to the recovery of capitalist profitability - and they do not oppose the fact that this proposal does not reflect the expected loss of government revenues which, as they say, will exceed 12 billion, as does the downturn in production, trade, plundering in the tourism sector, the deterioration in the position of banks, the expected increase in government debt and so on. In fact, Mr Mitsotakis points out the danger that if the "xilari" is quickly exhausted Greece will be forced to resort to a new loan at a heavy interest rate and a new painful memorandum. What you say, ladies and gentlemen, about the provision of liquidity, relates mainly to the provision of guarantees by the Greek State to support large businesses and groups that will benefit from the crisis by gaining a greater share of the market, since that is of course where the share of the lion intended for them is also directed. The proposal, too, for a deferral of debts is not a substantial relief for thousands of households facing the new wave of poverty and unemployment. The only proposal that really relieves is the JRC's proposal to exempt from the obligations of the next few months, which is the proposal that can give a real breath to thousands of workers, self-employed professionals, to scientists. More specifically, we propose that, for self-employed persons with an annual income of up to EUR 12 000, they should be exempt from paying contributions for their individual insurance for the next four months, without losing their pension rights, a duty-free limit of EUR 12 000 should be set and that the trade fee should not be paid, so that they themselves can meet the economic consequences that are already increasing. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece]] At the same time, we have proposed suspending for as long as all the auctions and seizures to the public, banks and the ECHO are needed, all kinds of forced collection, shutdown of electricity and water for all workers, pensioners, but also for those self-employed with an annual income of less than EUR 12 000. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous "World Health Day" was at the same time a day of action for health, as the health workers themselves decided through their unions and their federation to highlight the critical issues of protecting the health of our people. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, all the members of the Party throughout the country, and I personally with my presence in "THEIOSO" have expressed solidarity and solidarity in the fair struggle. We combined our voice with their own voice demanding mass recruitment of doctors, nurses, other health care workers, the full requisition of private beds, clinics, lab equipment, private care personnel, their integration into the state plan to address this epidemic and personal protection for all our health care workers. We consider this a small contribution to the titanic struggle that really gives all these days doctors and nurses to save lives of our fellow people, unlike the government that, in the fair demands of doctors and nurses, only responds with applause and thanks and when it sends the DIA team into hospitals, as it did in the "Evangelism". As for the recruitments that have been announced, you know very well that these are behind the needs of not only the pandemic, but also the current needs. Some, in fact, think they have found the opportunity to slander trade unions, the fair fight against health. Fortunately, in spite of the unhealthy efforts made by various unhealthy stobagogues, we did not go through the repression. The nakedness of the public health system reveals the responsibilities of all those who have ruled this place so far. With this nakedness, our people can't compromise. And don't try to hide behind responsibility, maturity, high level really, the science of the medical community, the personnel who are working with real self-depression every day, protecting until now as we speak, if you want, even you. You know and you understand very well what we're talking about and what we're talking about. You also know very well that due to the condition that has been created, medical appointments, surgery, treatments for patients with serious problems, such as oncology patients, have been cancelled because when you tell many of them not to go to hospitals, you have to tell them where to go. Give it a break now! Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the pandemic measures you are also trying to hit hard labour rights and wages, trying to take measures that you had in your plans, measures which were also in the direction of BSE. With the EUR 800 allowance for for forty-five days, a measure taken in conditions where hundreds of thousands of workers were sent by businesses and their state homes, others made redundant, others unpaid, attempt not only to overlap with the nature and objective of the attack, but you are also challenging the unprecedented support measures of workers. The truth, unfortunately, is very different. The package that has been formulated by the resolute legislative acts and the joint ministerial decisions that you have brought in last month is an inexhaustible antique menu for the sake of a great deal of work. Many unions, for this short period of application of the first measures, had so many complaints from places and branches of work that made them volume, in fact, entitled 'The Black Bible of Employers'. In fact, it is the first volume, as complaints of all kinds of employers and arbitrary practices, threats and extortion multiply as the days pass. All this time, dozens of businesses are 'loading' - as they say - personnel, they put thousands of workers on the ice by blocking contracts, others plunge them out with a full intensification of work and others employ few days, using the tool of rotating work. All over this environment is growing complaints of unpaid work, of late redundant, unpaid overtime. At the same time you announced a number of support measures for large enterprises, with various aids, facilities and financial instruments. You gave the employer early the green light to do what he wants. Already, the registered redundancies by 20 March were over a hundred and fifteen thousand, which you consider to be past - forgotten, without, as you should have done, being invalid. The most famous clauses for protecting jobs, which are a prerequisite for companies to have access to government regulations, do not concern a large number of workers. We refer to the so-called voluntary departures, as forced resignations or termination of fixed-term contracts are being baptized, with, for example, hundreds of redundancies from workers who have been working at airports for years. We ask: What Labour Inspectorate is currently checking whether redundancies are coercive or voluntary resignation, since you have, by decision, put a lock on every control mechanism? At the moment, most branches are flooded by resignations, several companies significantly alter the number of employees who are employed and look typically good. At the same time, the specific clause you have put in is perforated for the eyes of the world. Entrepreneurs are obliged to take back to work the same workers whose contract was suspended, as long as government measures for the pandemic are in force, i.e. for forty-five days. In short, you are able to take all the favourable exemptions and financing arrangements into account, but with the freedom to dismiss workers almost directly once these measures have expired. The anti-American weapons you have given her into the hands of her employer enable her to unilaterally impose rotational work, impose free and unrestricted wage cuts by 50% for at least six months, i.e. wages corresponding to 10 days of work per month. Those workers who are a large part of the workers are not subject to any regulations or protection at all. At the same time, the latest legislative act makes it clear that each undertaking can make combined use of all flexibility tools. In other words, an undertaking may, at the same time, unilaterally require a rotating employment to part of its staff, suspend contracts of employment of other workers, combine this measure with teleworking to the same worker. Finally, it can transfer other workers from an undertaking to an undertaking in the same group, but without safeguarding their rights. The government propaganda which claims that all the above measures are of an exceptional, necessary and temporary nature should not fool anyone. The legitimate concern of the workers themselves must not coexist with waiting, much more with tolerance. They must in every way and available means make it clear to government and energetically that they will not pay for the marble again. Ladies and gentlemen, the marble, of course, apart from the workers, will again be paid for by the poor farmers, since the Government, as far as agricultural production, processing and fisheries are concerned, has double standards. On the one hand, it strengthens monopolistic groups on the other, on the other hand, on the grounds that they have problems with the disposal of their produce and on the other, on the other hand, on the support of self-employed farmers and farmers, as well as the ovine and caprine farmers and fruit and vegetables producers and the people's markets. These are agricultural sectors which are suffering from the effects of the trend towards a pandemic and the problems of disposing of their production. It is necessary that the Government proceed immediately to a package of measures to ensure that: Firstly, the channelling of domestic production of sheep and goat milk into the processing of lamb and eggs and susceptible products into popular consumption, without speculation from the various intermediaries, at affordable prices which guarantee producers an income of survival. Secondly, the State's coverage of the lost income of farmers in the sectors affected and an exceptional allowance for producers who are ill or who are forced to remain at home for the needs of children or the elderly. Thirdly, protection of producers with a debt suspension and any measure of forced recovery, electricity, water interruptions, payment of their insurance contributions by the State for as long as the crisis lasts, free of charge of feed, in particular in the excluded areas. Fourthly, payment of 100% of EUGF compensation for 2019, abolition of VAT on means and supplies, priority items, reduction of agricultural electricity prices and duty-free oil. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, another matter also serious: Since February we have stressed the need for immediate measures to be taken to decapitate refugees structures and hot spots and the danger of pandemic. You did nothing at first, then you announced semimeters, which have not been implemented. The cases in Richona and Malakasa show your responsibilities. We say that what applies to the general population - under conditions of natural pandemic - must apply to the structures of refugees themselves. It is funny to talk about protective measures in structures and local populations with two and three thousand conspiracies. Check out, book hotels now, at this time - most of them are closed anyway - so that corresponding protection measures can apply to these people and to the total population of course. Implement the immediate measures put forward by our Members for the quarantine in the two specific structures. The European Union is making suggestions to you for refugees on the islands, calling for their immediate transfer to the mainland. We are asking for their immediate transfer to their countries of destination. Your allies, whose agreements you loyally keep, swing your finger. Now this world is required to move to the countries it wants and there to apply for asylum, with its immediate decapitation from our islands. Gentlemen of the government, I also come to another very serious issue. What you've given for culture is a drop in the ocean. If we divide the sum of EUR 15 million by the hundred thousand, which you yourself say is the number of people in culture, then they represent EUR 150 for each. If we divide them again by business, which according to your data is forty-three thousand, it corresponds to 348 euros in each business. After all, a large part of the EUR 15 million will go to actions that are already running and not to new ones that arise exceptionally because of the pandemic. At the same time, even with the inadequate measures you announced in March, you leave out most of the workers in culture: musicians, actors, directors, artists, technicians, other skilled workers. More specifically, the measures exclude those workers who had closed production agreements for the next few months, i.e. they had not worked the previous season. Also a significant number of artistic activities - concerts, productions, etc. - were cancelled before 1 March, which is the date for payment of the allowance. Moreover, some of the self-employed artists, such as visualists, because of their unfavourable taxation, have been forced to close their tax books and have enough to collect small annual sums with proof of expenditure. In this context, it should be added that, in the field of culture, in particular by abolishing the compulsion of all collective agreements, 'black' has been consolidated, undeclared work and flexible forms such as daily recruitment and redundancies. The vast majority works a few days a year on objects which, however, provide for a lot of unpaid work, since these few days require a long period of preparation, testing, etc., which is usually without pay. At the same time, unemployment in the field of culture is scoring, with the exception of measures and all unemployed artists. Finally, we should not omit the category of small businesses in culture, such as dramatic schools, schools of dance, valorisation schools, which are not included in the measures because they have to employ fewer workers - one to three hours - a week to cover multiple subjects of study, more than five workers. All of this is a grim reality, which, with mathematical accuracy, leads the majority of artists and other workers in culture to a complete economic dead end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, try to complete it. We have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u101	It's okay. I am not speaking very often, Mr President. You'll show your tolerance. Other party leaders here are talking about the respective themes and fifty minutes without interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u102	Good. I'm making a reminder.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u103	To address, therefore, the critical situation requires a universal application of the allowance for all actors, musicians, directors, artists and workers in the industry, irrespective of their working relationships, and their renewal for the entire time of the epidemic crisis, provision of unemployment benefit, without any conditions and conditions, to all the unemployed until the problem of the coronary is overcome, the seasonal allowance granted during the autumn, insurance capacity for the whole sector, including measures by all small enterprises in the sector, with an annual income of less than EUR 12 000, irrespective of the form and number of workers concerned, protection of the first residence from auctions and explorations, and non-discontinuation of water supply, electricity, telephone and especially for self-employed operators in the sector, such as directors, producers, visual and others, free from the payment of contributions to the next three-monthly payment of intellectual property rights, without prejudice to the following EUR 15,000 television or video-support, without prejudice to the payment of any rights, of any potential or video-supported or television-exempted allowances. Ladies and gentlemen, we want once again to highlight the issues of education, which are literally millions of students, students, parents and teachers. In addition to the development of the pandemic and its management by the government, which we have already said a great deal, it is necessary with a state responsibility and a desire to deal with a number of problems. Badly lies, children who will give this year's pan-Hellenic are treated more or less as experimental animals. And the candidates and their families hear different scenarios about when the tests will be done, if they do, what matter they will give, scenario scenarios and headlines. Finally, what is missing is today - I should say yesterday - that the fall in matter and even the date for them to be carried out must be announced. Now exclude the possibility of taking place in September. Here's the government and he can answer today. It is not enough for the festivals and the various communication references to numbers of children and teachers enrolled in the Panhellenic School Network. The question is what they really do and if there's a problem. The Ministry of Education just sent a circular to assess, says, computer and tablet needs. We are, of course, responding that there is obviously a great deal of problem. You don't do everything you can, gentlemen of the government and the ministry. The cylindrical you sent expires today at noon. You even have the knife on the headmaster's neck to choose which children you need a loan card - even a loan, so you call it a loan - and threaten them from the top that if they say they need it all the children in their school will not give any tablets. Good, really, pedagogical approach! Is that the role of teachers to exclude children from knowledge? Before going up to Stepa, I was informed - I don't know if that was the case - that it was sent just today, that is, now that the previous circular ended, today at noon, a new interpretative circular that says that we didn't mean exactly the managers to name and define which teachers and students - as natural persons - have shortcomings, if they have tablets, but we meant the same school, the classes, etc. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will I don't know if that's true. The Minister will be somewhere, he'll listen. Hear it and answer it. So, let us tell you the needs, although you know them, but you go back with the logic of giving a few donations and donations, as usual. The majority of homes of popular families need tablets and computers. Now everyone has to be given. There is no need for any particular debate, either statistically or analysis, or data collection, and everyone, should be given to all the homes of these children of the people's families and not to borrow them. If you do not do this, you are excluded with your responsibility thousands of children from being named, anyway, equal access to public education. Whenever schools open up it needs to be understood by everyone - we say it now - especially by the Ministry of Education that students were not on vacation. Going out can't, seeing their friends can't, running can't, in most homes there's anxiety, insecurity. The least thing to do is to support our children socially, psychologically, to have similar state structures and, of course, not to give pre-school and high school exams. It's not just the JRC. Listen to the teachers, who are literally with a sense of responsibility, beside children, students, with all means, but at the same time also claim measures to do their job properly, no matter how much they know that the relationship with a person is the heart of the educational process itself. There is another matter that must be directly and responsibly denied by the Ministry of Education, because there are reports which claim that the Ministry is preparing to table a bill on these difficult days of pandemic and curfew. Of course, in this regard, we must acknowledge that you are doing fine in copying SYRIZA's practice, who had submitted a bill for students within the Great Week! So much stress do you have to go through the Bank today, which is condemned by the overwhelming majority of students, teachers and parents? So much stress do you have to do even more with the high school examination center? Withdraw all such thoughts now. Ladies and gentlemen, our criterion for the specific proposals that we make in this House is to make our people strong and strong from this adventure, not to pay today the broken epidemic and tomorrow the broken crisis, while all you who are talking today about today about the need to take more measures, to cover shortcomings, do not say who ultimately pays and who ultimately benefits from such measures: the working class, the populace or the big capital, the monopolies? So, for everything workers, professionals, scientists, poor farmers from the government, but also from other parties, they should first ask themselves who will pay, who will benefit. They now have the criterion and experience after ten years of crisis to answer. As far as the question is concerned, the proposals all concern only the next three, four, five months. However, the crisis that is before the gates has unfortunately not an end date of four to five months. As the international staff of the system themselves appreciate - the OECD, the International Monetary Fund, others - the depth and duration of the crisis in Greece will be much greater than the Community average, due to the structure of the Greek economy. We mention tourism, transport, etc. Now, our people, who paid for the crisis of the last decade, must see, can see more clearly the deadlocks of this system, which, unfortunately, all of you are serving. The deterioration and dismantling of the Greek people towards the various imperialist centres, the United States of America, the European Union, must turn into a conscious struggle and will for definitive release from these agencies and total release from this rotten system. This is the only option for the Greek people to have their health, to have their rights, to have their life and well-being. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, but others here are speaking ten minutes in the morning, five minutes at noon and then continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. The President of Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, is invited to speak at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by saying what I heard a few minutes ago. I heard that I have a hotel of my own, Minister, somewhere in Athens, and the Left - the true Left - of the JRC - is to check it out for me. In other words, to me, when I paid and made a hotel, you should check and bring me, he says, the refugees -'migrants' - we tell them it doesn't matter - and put them in. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] But I didn't hear anything about the Greek homeless. Why don't we put the Greek homeless first and then see if I can put others on? That is the first question. The second question is that I can't do it to a man who's invested money with the ability to put some people in it. And how am I supposed to get them out? I'm gonna put the MATs on to get them out? I repeat that these people are having a hard time - it is a given - in Malakasa, on the Serres, in all regions. Should I put the MATs on to get them out? They're having fun at the hotel. You know, it's very easy to say a lot, but money trees are no longer there. It is very difficult and especially for a person, a private person, who has invested money, has put money, to tell him "I will do this to you". The orders are made in time of war. If some people now think that we have war and we need to host refugees first - illegal immigrants and then the Greek hungry, it is a completely different approach for us at least. Let's actually go. At the time when all this is being discussed here, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, about the coronary, closed in the house - and we do well - the Turks have sent six warships, freshmen, under Crete today. Six in number of warships under Crete. It is a good idea for the media to focus on the coronary because it suits itself, because the government is doing the self-evident thing, in any case, at the level of measures - not economic measures, but in general - a curfew, etc., but let us look at the next ones that are simmering and coming. So let's see what happens after that story, beyond economic data. Six freshmen under Crete. It's a sign of writing what they want and preparing themselves. Now let's go to our conversation. We are the only country in the world, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loverdos, who has the post-modernised cheques as capital, as if - if you would - created wind of manipulated as money. We're the only one, there's no other country in the world. Check it out, you cut it and you go and you pay for it in the cashier. And we are now the only country to have post-modernised acts of legislative content. They announce measures, implement them and bring them here after ten to fifteen days. They announce measures, create them, implement them and then come, with an act of legislative content and they say 'Koroni, talk now, but we do them'. Is this called democracy or, if you wish, is it pluralism and a common contention? We may have a better view in what you legislate and help you! You apply it and come here to make our criticisms. But criticism for it to be constructive and I hope it will work, Mr Vice-President, to be heard by the government. But they don't listen! They're doing what they want! So this is distorted for democracy itself. On the bill, I will say it once again: the government is not doing anything important. It's self-evident. I imagine any government would do the same thing: Traffic ban, everyone close in your homes, don't move and the story is over. These are the self-evident things that any government does. But you're taking the steps, drop the drop. It is a Chinese torment of what is happening with the New Democracy and in the context of a communication explosive process. In other words, the Minister says this morning, Adonis Georgiadis, my good friend: "We will do that." He forgets something, however, and the next day he says: 'We will do that as well'. The aftermath will say: 'We will do the other'. That's how Mr. Brutsis comes out - I see him on the channels - Mr. Staruras comes out - and, of course, he's having another job, he talks with the others on top, he slowly doesn't make any difference now - all the ministers come out every day on the channels, on the windows, on the windows, on the house, on their desk, on their cell phone and they declare. Couldn't they do all the measures together? Why? Because they're working on communication. This is all a communal bubble. They're working on it through TV stations - it's for granted! - via television. Why? Because they want this air to go to the next election, namely the air of the great victory, but on the victims, they will say: 'Others have more'. I'll tell you how much more people have because the victims' dividing record makes me angry. We are only talking about Italy, Spain, France and America. There are other countries that have much more victims than our country has. I'm about to let you know here because I looked into them and found them from the World Health Organisation. Because the image and numbers are good, but there's the half full glass and half empty. In Article 1 of the bill you reduce VAT to masks, but not to food and medicines. So, the mask, Minister, how much does it cost? One euro, two euros? So you reduce VAT in a mask, but not in food that is a basic type of consumption. If you go to the supermarket - which I think you're going most of you - you'll see that prices are up. Always when there is a crisis, any crisis in consumer goods prices due to supply and demand - capitalism - goes up. But this is a shameful victory. They're up 30% of basic consumption. Take Adonai out and instead of going to the channels, go to the supermarket and put a hand on everyone's hands. That means a measure to prosper the people, to help the people. With regard to Article 5 and the suspension of payment of debts to DUs. Why don't you put the VAT on it? Mr. Stavura, why don't you put the VAT on it? Put the VAT on. Because if you wanted to do business and help my business, that's what you should do to me. I don't work. I've booked my company. I mean, I pay my employees, I have not suspended my business, but I normally operate the VAT I have to pay him. I'm operating normally by paying, not that the operation works, because there's no turnover. Look really at the real economy. You present them as universal measures. But it's not universal. Others you announced and write. You're talking about universal measures. Is this a universal measure, with divisions and exceptions? It is not universally your measures. With regard to Article 7 and the two-month extension for unemployment benefit. Something told me you were preparing for the long-term unemployed. Is it true, Mr. Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u106	Apparently, Mr. Brutsi...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u107	Unemployment? As far as I know the money is concerned, you're giving it to me. That's right, we're screwed. You'll give the money. Who's gonna give it to? Bruce? Brutsis will be recommended. If you do something, it's good. Will you do something for seasonal workers in tourism, for people on board the crews of ships who will not find a job? Because they're inside too. You'll tell me the whole world is. Well, it can't be. Horizontal measures, guys! We'll either take horizontal measures, or we won't. Not only will I give 100 million to the various CCTs, Mr. Stakoura, for lawyers. I mean, the one who has a degree in law and the National Technical University, Mr. Brutsi, will go to a private C.E.K. to train him. We're talking about tragedy. You get a scientist to go to a private C.E.C., whatever it is to train him, to train him, because he's untrained. It's ridiculous. In other words, they baptize the fish meat only for 600 euros. That's the story. But the 100 million will be taken by their people. It's seven, eight, ten, it's no more. Advertisements exist and if you enter the sites, you will see: "Come to us. Here's the good CEC.' Everyone's at the CDC, that is, the money, not the CDC. I'm saying it's too simple for people to understand and the people who listen to us from their homes. Let's go to Article 62 and to the 11 million euros on the pan-Hellenic channels. Give it to me for the ink. The Lebanese cost 11 million euros on the channels. But that's not all, because you're honest - I'll say it directly - political crooks. You also give them the money from the fine that they had to pay for a year, another EUR 23 million for the canalarchs. In the small regional channels, the hundred and ten canals, which employ two and a half thousand people, why don't you do something, Mr. Stakoura? It's a hundred-ten regional TV stations, Mr. Brutsi, which operate throughout Greece. There are about two and a half thousand workers there. There's not a single euro discount! They made them - it says -2%, that is, 20 euros a month. To one we give rents, we give money to regional channels to pay. It's unfair and unfair nobody wants it. To be fair and fair. But the government works, not to say how. Let's go to the benefactors from "LIDL", the Greek shipowners, the great love of the New Democracy. What a burner with the shipowners! They eat, they drink together, they go to their birthday, they go to their holidays. They gave 10 million euros a hundred twenty shipowners. Slowly, they won't go to Remo in the bunkies one night. That's what they did! One hundred and twenty shipowners, Mr. Loverdos! Where's Zappas? Where are all these great national benefactors? Where are all these people? It's unbelievable! And the LIDLs come out and give 100 thousand euros, the Germans. We got money already. They flew 100 grand on the table to help. Who? The ‘LIDL’ that broke the domestic market. And I say this to understand that in general, the government - I will say it very simply - is not the solution to the country's problem. I'm saying that for New Democracy to understand. You're not the solution. Why? Because you're the problem. You yourself are a problem as you rule. You rule with dosages, and that's tragic. The Prime Minister of the country messed up with Orban. He's been swearing about him all day. The same party was at the People's Party, together, hug. Why? Because Orban - listen to what he did! - he took his parliament and voted - two thirds, if I'm not mistaken - to do whatever he likes. I won't be an advocate of this Turkish friend, authoritarian at the extremes, Orban. Never! But I will say that we have done the same here many times. Many governments - both previous and previous - operated by presidential decrees. And what's that? Isn't it an circumvention of democracy? Is it not a alteration of our democratic culture to the presidential decrees? And yet what you are doing now, by legislative acts that you announce 15 days ago, do you apply them ten days ago and bring them in after 15 days in here is not alteration? It is. We'll talk about real events. This thing can't be done. Of course, I'll say it directly, they're laughing at pigeons here in the Constitution with what's happening, Minister. You transfer payments to the tax office, debts etc. August. Why August? Tell me! I will say to you: why do you want elections in August to go with the air that you do everything. You will put us in elections in June, July, whenever it suits you, and you will transfer the payments later. Smells like elections. You don't have to say it. Smells, it seems. You're getting it ready. The mistake is that you rule with your mind in the next election. Mr. Stavoura, because you've been Minister for years, you need to understand that you need to change logic. You won't be ruling like this. You will rule with your mind in the next election. If you really want to offer, you will rule with your mind in the next generations rather than in the next election, whether you will be self-powered or not. There is no interest in the Greek people if you will be self-powered. He cares whether Greece exists, whether there will be Greek in the next few years. So what have you forgotten about the proposals that we have put forward? You're not saying anything about the supermarket workers. Nothing! They're working longer right now than they did before. For pharmacies, for wholesale sales, for cleaning companies, for cabs, for buses, for transportation, for OAED contractors no one talks. In five and a half thousand people the contracts were not renewed, Mr. Brutsi. Today I read it and I expect answers from you. They are fired before 1 March 2020. Also, pending are pensioners who are legally unable to work and there is no care for an allowance. The pensioner can't work. He's waiting to get a pension, Mr. Counselor, three, four years. SYRIZA had it, New Democracy had it in the past, and so is it. He's waiting to get his pension, 1,000 euros, 700 euros, 600 euros. But you're forbidden to work. Why in time of judgment and pandemic? This is where the legislator needs not to formally think about the law but essentially about the human being. If the law doesn't think of a man, it's not a law. It's something else. What did you forget, too? Heavy and unhealthy for nurses. Mr. Loverdos said so. PASOK said so. So do we. The nurse whose life is at risk of not having heavy and unhealthy. It can't be done, ladies and gentlemen. The cleaners in the hospital with the contractors - why are many cleaners working and contractors, Mr Brutsi - not entitled to take heavy and unhealthy? They risk at all times and at all times when they clean toilets that go some who have the coroner. What about the recreational craft crew I told Mr. Stakoura about? Let's go to the rest and to the support measures I have here. I will not say the percentages of GDP given by the countries, namely Greece 3.5% of GDP, Italy 22%, France 23%. I won't say that. You don't even have to. But I'll say something else. What bothered me, Minister, to your government and to all governments. Pangalus had said things stupid and stupid, of course. He said, however, that Germany is a giant with a baby's mind and it is the only right thing he had said at the time. He'd said a lot more. But, after Pangalos there is no government to stand up to Germany, my child, a government that the Prime Minister of the country will stand up real and say "here, your Nazi perception is now enough". It's a Nazi their perception. It's colonial. He is the protector of Europe in the bad sense - not to say the other meaning - and he does what he wants, he puts anyone in the European Union, he puts the Commissioners in the European Parliament, he puts anyone he wants, wherever he wants, and that is what Europe wants. That is not Europe. And it is not my philosophical approach, but it is the pragmatic concept of any European citizen, Italian, French, Spanish, Greek. They do not want this Germany, they do not want this Europe. To change it or it'll collapse. Mrs Merkel said that this is immoral when we have thousands of dead in southern Europe. Mrs Merkel was looking for the surpluses in the numbers, and now we have surpluses in the dead. That's the reality. He said: "As long as there are no Eurobonds". I'll say it otherwise. Since it does not account for human lives, victims and dead, it is better that this logic of Mrs Merkel does not live. There should be no political reasoning. He can't say that thing at the time people are lying down and we can't make them a regular burial. Let their dad see them, their mom's forbidden because they had a coronary. Merkel's Nazi visa! She doesn't care about the dead, she doesn't care. He wants to take it all the way Hitler took it. So the New Democracy doesn't dare say anything. And that's what bothers me. We've been the chows of Germany for decades. The reason? I don't know. Look at it a little bit between you, because first some behave as German friends and then as Greek friends in here. Let's get this straight. Stand up. And say 'no'. With the 'no' Greece has grown. With the "no" Greece was made. That's where we became acquaintances and celebrities. Not Leonidas, not the 1940s, but the "no" to get something. When you're given by the Germans, it's sure you won't get anything. It's very simple. I was born in Germany, I was an immigrant. My father worked in coal mines. I know the Germans' mentality. The German mentality is as follows: As long as you're at four, I'll smash your neck and never get up. That's the German culture. I know her, I know her. They've got us for residues, the rest of us - understand it! - Nothing! No one is talking about German atrocity against Europe today. I won't say about the debts of Germany in 1953. I will not make historical regression, to tell them what we gave them, what the Greek governments gave them, that they never asked for compensation and corrections, that they stole Greek antiquities and never gave them back, that we were destroyed, murdered, raped women, burned villages and never compensated us. I'm not gonna say all that. I'll say something very simple, though. This Germany, Germany, the Nazis and its perception must disappear. It really has to end her mentality. I am not talking about the people, I am not talking about its citizens, but about its mentality. That is why the President of Serbia has come to say: 'Europe's fairy tale of solidarity. Shame on Germany for what it has done in Europe.' Serb said so. Let the Prime Minister of Greece say so. He dares to say it? Without a Eurobond, we won't be able to work, understand it. It can't be done. Why? We're bankrupt. We didn't come out of a memorial. Don't make fun of the world. Why? Because no government ever thought of the very simple thing. A country, a society, a community, a family that does not produce wealth, that is to say it has no revenue, is doomed to go bankrupt. We need to be serious about talking. I told the Prime Minister ten times, guys! He said, "Mr. Prime Minister, do a committee of experts from all parties for the primary sector, rural development and livestock." That's where we can start. But nothing, it's raining. I'm not talking to him about the pharmaceutical botany that's much more important to me. I'm telling him about self-evident things, but nothing. They accepted acceptance of the European Central Bank's bonds. Interest, Mr. Stakoura, isn't it? We'll get a loan from there, even low-priced, as you say. You are satisfied with a little pregnant or a little raped. Either get out of there with interest or you don't get it, it's interest and it's over! Therefore, the programme ‘TERAKELS’ should be repealed. Will you withdraw, Mr Stavoura, the programme 'HERAKLES'? Because after you get money for the banks, as you say, you draw from the banks the Greeks and you have to abolish this. Stop auctioning after you get the money. It's money you give it to the bankers. Again, the bankers, who do not give a loan to the businesses, do not give a single euro, Mr Stakoura? I told you a week ago to see the NRP, Mr. Stakoura. Do not take the ESRB and use it as it suits you, at 600 euros, from here and there. What are these things? He says Mr Georgiadis said that "it was something forgotten and we found it in the NSRF". Jesus Christ! Forgotten money? Forgotten money in an N.S.S.S.A.? He's my friend, Mr. Loverdo. I've known him since I was a young boy, eighteen years old. We've known each other since we were young. Is this a Minister's name? Forgotten money? What is it? Was it his grandfather's pounds and he forgot about them? Money from the Greek people. And where do they give them? Here's a whisper. That's not how it works. We should give public investment to give growth. Minister, I've been listening to the budget you've told us that growth is public investment. It's a place. So where do you give them? Do you throw them away? Is that how we're going to do business? You are also obliged to deposit a new budget. You are obliged to deposit a new updated budget, since the budget you submitted in December no longer applies. That's not what you're doing either. Let's go to the other one that you despise a lot. You have an abstention from the New Democracy to the Orthodoxy which I do not understand. You forbid the loudspeakers in the churches. I don't get it. As I understand it, the coronary is dispersed by loudspeakers, and that is why loudspeakers are banned. Is that what you're telling us now? Is that how it's going to disperse? Is that why the megaphone ban? Is it your fault that we listen to the Divine Service even by hearing, even by distance? Not in the Church - to God! - The doors are closed! The priest and the singer have their jobs and say what they say, but listen. We want to hear "Christ Anestis". All the Great Sabbath on our balcony to go out instead of applauding all of us to pray together. Why not? Is that forbidden? Can we hear from the loudspeakers our Church and "Christ Anestes"? Yeah, we're staying home. We all live home. We're staying in Saturday night and we're not going to Resurrection. But let's hear the loudspeakers. We're staying home. But we are staying, Minister, Greek. Are we staying together? We stick together. But we also have faithful Orthodox ones, which you have forgotten. Everyone has the right to believe wherever he wants. I'll say it straight away. But I cannot see in Komotini yesterday the mosque operating, Mr Vice-President - and I have to present it to you, if you like - I cannot see mosques operating illegally with loudspeakers outside and forbid the Greek Orthodox Church to have loudspeakers. That's not just illegal, it's unfair. I cannot see any illegal mosques in Athens operating, seeing illegal immigrants here and there, and Greeks paying a fine, gentlemen, 150 and 300 euros. Some may be disturbed, but I am disturbed that there is no equivalence, isopoliticalism. There's a racist conception against the Greek. That's what bothers me. We all have the same rights and obligations. I won't tell about what the feminists in Exarchia did. But I'll say, Minister, that you put Mount Athos into emergency. There's been a huge theory. Roads have been cut, celles destroyed. Have you done something, Mr. Stakoura? Have you put Mount Athos in emergency? You'll tell me you didn't put Kastoria in an emergency. This is where you didn't put Lesvos in an emergency. Put the Perivoli of our Virgin Mary! Put it as an emergency! On Ramadan, I would like to say that it lasts from 24 April to 24 May. That's where Muslims gather. Let me see all of you who are against the gatherings of believers, what you're going to do there. And I agree with you that we shouldn't go into churches so we don't pass the coronary, but there I can see what you're doing. There to see what the New Democracy will do. Will he arrest them all or will he be afraid to go and arrest them? Let me see you here. It's close. It's not too far away. Finally, I will say some of our suggestions. I won't say about VAT. I'm not gonna say all this. I'll say after the coroner comes the hard stuff. Minister, tell the Greek people the truth. Don't hide it, Mr. Stakoura. After the coronary, we'll have the tricks because now you're not collecting anything. Then they'll all come together and sit on the head of any government and that's why you want to leave through the elections. Krone winners, however, losers will be in the coming years with what you do not do. You don't do specific things right. Our proposals are specific. I would like to say this: we are banned from circulation, Mr Brutsi. They forbid you to take your car and go anywhere as a citizen. Why don't they reduce traffic charges? Because they do not force insurance companies to lower the price as long as the crisis lasts, since we are not out there. Do it, Minister! But you don't do that either. The state must also take its own obligation. Since you forbid me to take my car and go to my village for Easter or go for a weekend walk, you pay me the traffic charges, pay me my insurance premiums that you have immovable under my house. That's not what they do either. Why don't they make a legislative intervention here, too, vote for it? It makes sense, doesn't it? I am talking about an intervention corresponding to premiums, reducing for two to three months, for as long as the coronary lasts. Also, join the 800 euros allowance, Mr Stakoura, the GDRs. Geapons are abstract. The tour guides are out. The farmers again, you forgot about them! You forgot those people! Those who produce wealth again are forgotten by the New Democracy. My friend, Makis Vorides, says "EUR150 million for farmers", when they give EUR 100 million to their seven CEC friends. They give 150 million to Greece's production machine, which means growth and production of wealth to farmers, and give the CEC 100 million. I won't say about pimps in the middle, I went past that. You keep the same logic. I also draw attention to structures of refugees - illegal immigrants, psychiatric wards, hospitals, prisons, camps and nursing homes. He wants a lot of attention, Mr. Ministers, what I've told you. Watch out for these points a little bit. It is very important for you to leave it like this. Already this morning, we had a case in Thebes Prison and we had an uprising a while ago. We had in Thebe an uprising of prisoners because they had the coronary virus and they had a dead one. That's what prisoners say themselves. Special allowance for air transport workers. The companies are asking you for 10 million euros if I'm not mistaken. I guess you'll give it there. The workers? Nothing. That's who you are, that's how you operate. In order to avoid announcing the measures, I shall therefore submit to the Minutes for them to know, friends and friends, and whoever sees us today, that the Greek Solution does not say words, but puts forward proposals. That's our difference. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, for our soldiers and our police officers daily decontamination of camps. We definitely have to do this. Temporary interruption of movements of unnecessarily employed personnel of our army. Special suits for those who carry the cases from the army and the police. There's nothing going on, nothing really. Closed up, I'd like to make some revelations. We have been swept through the entire media system for the few dead we have. To me a dead man is dead. There's no number of dead people. The Czech Republic, with ten million people, has eighty dead. Romania has twenty - one million population and until yesterday two hundred three deaths. Ukraine has forty-six million people and forty-five deaths. Poland has thirty - eight million people and a hundred twenty - nine deaths. So, because you've known us in the media of information with Italy, Spain, France and America, I'm going to tell you this and I'm closing down here: The problem in Italy was born in Bergamo. In Bergamo there was a fight between Atalanta and Valencia. This massage of all people spread the coronary and when the seven thousand Valencia fans left in Spain - because that was where the problem began in Spain - they carried the coronary. That's how the story started. So stop smuggling and say that "we did everything and we have a few dead," because the results are not half full glass, it is half empty. It's not like that. You do the self-evident thing, you do nothing different from what PASOK would do, SYRIZA at the level of measures - I imagine - because you did something proportionally, you didn't do something huge. None of you - and I'm closing here -, gentlemen of the New Democracy, a step, you who for 20 years said "the Northern Epirus, our sister, I don't know what you called her "the North Continent", I love her very much." So you were telling the New Democracy and forgot about this, it seems you've become more central. You did not even take one step on what happened in Athali, where the Greek Northcontinents raised the cross. Replaced by the Rama drug dealer, they have houses of Greeks to carry thirty thousand illegal migrant settlers in the area of Northern Epirus. Not one step or one protest. I still hear the Prime Minister's statement that Albania and Skopje will not enter the European Union or NATO because they will veto it, because what they do is not right. I have seen your hails and unfortunately - I will say it again and I say it now - not only will illegal immigrants be delayed, but Metarakis has done it again. To those who entered from Evros - you were telling them invaders, illegal immigrants, who came in from Evros, you said that there is a hybrid war - you are now giving them the right to have asylum. Thirty and a thousand other two hundred who broke in from Evros illegally, you were telling them illegal, you said of a hybrid war, and today you are giving them asylum. You can give asylum to anyone you want, citizenship you can give wherever you want, but asylum from the Greek Solution to these national crimes, whether financial or national, you will never have. That is why you also have the means of informing us to bomb constantly against us and above all to keep quiet about what we are saying. All of us are in the middle of it. If you see news reports, Mr. Brutsi, there is nowhere to be found the Greek Solution. Nowhere! We've been sneezed at the money that the gentlemen have given us. But should I tell you something? For thirty silvers they betrayed Christ. But another silver and another vulgarity. That's atrocity and politics and journalisty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much Mr. Velopoulos. Mr. Voutsi, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stakouras, will speak as you have asked to inform you. Then the Parliamentary Representatives will follow to ask their questions. Of course, I should like to inform you that Mr Varoufakis has asked to speak, but I will ask him when I see him in the Chamber if he wants to speak before or after the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, this is a single debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u112	I have asked to speak immediately with the rapporteurs because, in fact, as Mr Loverdes says, a debate will be followed by an economic debate on the basis of the information given by Mr Stagiras on the Eurogroup's specific issues. I did not want to talk in particular about these issues. I will, in fact, speak after Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u113	Isn't it better to hear him first? I guess you'd like to hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u114	Not if he wants to make use of the right, Mr. Stavros will now. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u115	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. All Parliament's wings have rightly asked the Minister for Finance in general for European developments and initiatives to address the impact of the coronary and the economic field. I owe you the limited time I have today, because as you know, there is a meeting this afternoon and there are bilateral communications and contacts before that, to let you know. Ladies and gentlemen, at a global level, the pandemic of the coronary puts the invaluable good of health, the systems, above all the public systems, which serve it, and the resistance of societies and economies. No country is strong enough and ready to meet itself the huge burdens the pandemic bears. I shall therefore repeat in this Chamber that absolutely safe and permanent shelters do not exist for buffaloes or frogs. The enemy is common, so common European solutions, substantive solutions, bold solutions, solutions that are commensurate with the seriousness of the situation, free of terms, restrictions and intrusions of the past. The fact is that in this crisis the European Union's finance ministers and the European institutions have taken important and rapid decisions, triggering measures both in the budgetary field and in the strengthening of liquidity in the real economy. The budgetary targets and limitations set at European level and in Greece were so that governments, including Greece, would have the flexibility needed to take measures to tackle the pandemic and its effects. The framework of State aid and public procurement has become more flexible. Already three specific Greek proposals have been adopted by DGCom. Further flexibility has been provided in the use and transfer of resources within and from the European Union's structural and regional funds, and the emergency enhancement tool for health systems has been activated. That is what the Finance Ministers and the institutions of the European Union have done up to now, to deal mainly with the problem financially. The European Central Bank also did the same to the liquidity side in the monetary field. It expanded the eligibility of corporate securities to the existing quantitative relaxation programme and proceeded to a new targeted programme in which for the first time since 2015 the Greek public bonds are eligible. Also, as soon as the European Central Bank returned the derogation the waiver, which affects the suitability of the bonds issued or guaranteed by the Hellenic Republic and used as collateral in the monetary policy operations of the Eurosystem. It is recalled that since 2018 Greek bonds have not been accepted as pledges as they did not meet the minimum credit rating requirements laid down by the European Central Bank. These two decisions of the European Central Bank significantly broaden the sources of financing for Greek banks and thus strengthen their capacity to support the real economy, households and businesses. In addition, they are expected to have a positive impact on the marketability and valuations of the Greek State bonds. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the above, although particularly useful, is not enough for a test with the characteristics of today. It is necessary in a sense of real solidarity to be thrown into battle and other powerful weapons. And this is the position of the country I have made in the Eurogroup yesterday, which I will repeat today: The European Commission's investment initiative to support health care systems, businesses and the labour market through the allocation of funds from the Structural Funds, as well as the European Investment Bank's proposal for a pan-European guarantee fund, which will leverage at EUR 200 billion, could mobilise additional funding for small and medium-sized enterprises and all this is moving as additional initiatives in the right direction and have, to prejudge, been essentially agreed. The same is true - with observations from some Member States - of the establishment and implementation of a temporary fund to safeguard jobs, the 'SURE' programme. On the proposals from the European Support Facility for the exploitation of credit lines for all Member States, there has not yet been a definitive agreement. The country's position is to have flexibility and conditions that meet the needs of this juncture, based solely on economic exogenous and symmetrical shocks. However, also with these pan-European interventions of over EUR 500 billion, our position - my position - is that the needs of the inactivated and winter-driven health crisis are much greater than the real economy and its productive fabric. Therefore, the overall European project must be more ambitious, with an eye on the coronary, but also with a look at the return to normality of the economy. That is why we believe that additional initiatives are needed and demand additional liquidity injections in the national and European economy. By adopting a common European accountant and other innovative solutions, by making use of the current European budget, by redefining and strengthening the next multiannual financial framework, all of this could finance the needs to address the health crisis and the recovery of the next day. We all need to realise that big visions are approached by big decisions and brave actions. Indeed, in the past few days, the relevant consultations have been and continue to be dense. However, the Eurogroup yesterday did not reach an agreement on this most ambitious project. I hope that this will be done today with a comprehensive, coherent package of measures which will demonstrate, on the one hand, that these measures are based on the value of solidarity, which is, moreover, the beginning of the European idea and on the basis of the European structure and, on the other, that this package of measures will not be inferior to the circumstances, nor will it be uneasy and reluctant. That is what all citizens in Europe expect today. In recent months Greece has been participating with strong and equitable voice in Eurogroup, gaining lost credibility, presenting solid arguments and not theoretically ideological clouds, gaining degrees of flexibility that were inconceivable a few months ago, being clearly and confidently placed, with serious and responsible responsibility. That is what he did the day before yesterday, and it will do today, not in terms of communication, but in substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Minister. I will now give the floor to the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, and then to Mr Varoufakis. Do you want to hear the parliamentary representatives first?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u118	Excuse me, Mr. President, were you here this morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u119	No, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u120	Can I take the floor to explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u121	Sure, why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u122	We had the initiative, with which all parties agreed, to ask for the Minister of Finance to suspend his programme to come here and ask him some questions to answer them. You did it backwards and right. First he made us a suggestion. We have to ask him questions with very limited speaking time. To be given one or two minutes to each parliamentary representative. That can't be interrupted. If he has to leave, then what happens?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u123	And Mr. Voutsis is a former President of the House and Mr. Varoufakis is a party leader.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u124	I have no objections. I know the Rules of Procedure. If you want to do it like this, do it like this. What can I tell you? But you're changing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u125	I, under the Rules of Procedure, operate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u126	The Minister came here to place himself on questions that the parties will ask him, to go this afternoon to continue the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u127	Wait a minute, Mr. Loverdo, let's put them in a classroom. It's not time for tensions. Tell me, Mr. Voutsi, do you want to speak now or do the parliamentary representatives want to speak for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u128	Look, I put it to you beforehand that it would have been better if my speech had been closed, so that the procedure that Mr Lovers said would take place. I do not want to be the point of order in Parliament or Mr Stagioras to leave without answering questions. Let this process take precedence, and then I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Varoufakis, can we give the floor to every parliamentary representative for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u130	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u131	And Mr. Varoufakis, if he wants to talk, he's a party leader. He needs to speak like the other Chiefs, like Mr. Koutsubas. What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure are very clear. Mr. Varoufakis will be speaking now. He courtesy of his position to the President, but that cannot be done. He's the Chief of Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u133	That's why I asked him nicely, if he wants to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u134	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u135	Yes, but the Minister must answer the questions and he must leave, as you have heard. It's more serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u136	This does not, however, concern our parliamentary group. We've been here since this morning, as we should be. Mr. Varoufakis will be speaking now, unless he wants to speak before Mr. Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u137	We've all been here since this morning, Mr. Gregoryade. Mr Varoufakis, do you agree that each parliamentary representative should speak for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u138	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u139	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u140	Excuse me, Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u141	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u142	We agreed this morning, and Mr. Gregorydis was here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u143	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Loverdo, please, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Varoufakis, you weren't here, but it was Mr. Gregoriadis. We agreed in the morning that all the wings would come Mr. Staruras, interrupting the work he did, just to make this process happen. I think now we would have finished half the questions. It will also be possible for the President, Mr Varoufakis, to ask questions if he wants to, but his speech on the PPP - that is what the President of the Chamber says - to do after that. I don't think it's that great.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u146	That's right. We've been talking for six minutes. What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u147	May I speak, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u148	Of course, Mr. Gregoryde. And you will speak first of the parliamentary representatives. You should know!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u149	Dear Mr. Lebanon, we agreed that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u150	No, you're not having a conversation with Mr. Lebanese, with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I do not tell you where you are President, I address you, we did not agree at all this morning that we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Lebanese and Mr...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u153	You didn't let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u154	Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u155	I say that we have not agreed in any way, because otherwise we would be vegetarians or gods, that Mr Stakoras should be gone. I personally did not know that. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u156	All right, Mr. Gregoriadis, I've heard you, I understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u157	So let Mr. Stakoras sit down another five minutes and then do whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u158	If this is not to be lost, will each Parliamentary representative have the floor for a moment and the first you, Mr Gregoriadis, agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u159	...maybe he's so big-hearted, but that's not legal. Simple as that. I can't say it any other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u161	Of course, Mr. Varoufakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u162	I'm not gonna talk about the PNR, obviously. This is a historic day today. The Minister of Finance is about to go to the Eurogroup. I would like to respond to what he said, conscious of what he is facing today. I am not going to talk about the MDG, I am going to speak just about what the Minister of Finance has said at the moment. You know very well that I generally observe my time and this parliamentary procedure, Mr Lebanon, may well then continue and I think it will also be enriched by this debate. The question is whether the Rules of Procedure of the House give me the right at this time to answer Mr Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u163	He's giving it to you, we're not talking about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u164	Let the procedure be observed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u165	That's what we all agree on. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. It is really historic today. I heard the Minister of Finance. Mr Stavoura, you have our complete support for what is going to happen today. Today the Eurogroup will decide whether or not the European Union has a future. This is irresponsible to the attitude of the Dutch Minister for Finance and, more generally, to those who are smiling him. The frustration, the fact that there was no agreement in the previous Eurogroup last week, a month ago that should normally exist for all that you said, prove that the European Union has not been able to overcome its fundamental error, which started in 2010. There is something that concerns me even more than their inability to decide, what they will decide today, because there is something worse than the non-judgment, and that is the disastrous decision. Mr Stavura, the activation of the ESM is not a good first step, it is the narrator of any first step that can lead our country, the countries of the South, but also the whole of the European Union to redemption, on any path that may lead, somewhere different from the dissolution of the European Union. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I heard your leader also speak of a credit line from the ESM, without prerequisites. This is your historical error. The ESS is exactly the opposite of the Eurobond. What is Eurobond, ladies and gentlemen? The Eurobond is debt restructuring so that the current value of the total debt is reduced. It's a debt restructuring, the Eurobond. This means that national debt will be transferred to a European debt so that it will shrink over time. We are facing an increase in public debt, on average in the Eurozone, of 40%, as a percentage of GDP as a whole. In some countries it will be much taller, in some countries it will be much lower. To those who are taller, they are the ones who cannot lift it and we will have a domino of collapse if they continue to talk about the ESM as a solution. Mr Stavoura, unfortunately, the messages we receive - and I think this reflects your experience, more than any of us - is that the Eurobond game, unfortunately, has already been sold. Even Italy, as far as I understand it, the Italian Minister for Finance gave in the day before yesterday. He's not talking about Eurobonds. The disagreement with the Netherlands was whether there would be prerequisites for the ESM credit line. That's out of the question. Obviously it is tragic that there should be commemorative prerequisites, but there should be no, what should be done? Let's take the 400 billion left in the ESM pigeon, saying: "Take states, take, Mr. Stakoura, take, Mr. Galtierri, let your colleague from Spain too." That's the time of the year we'll be here. Our debt will be at 220%, because it will be added to the Greek government's debt whatever credit you get from the ESM. We will have - and I said 10 March in this Chamber - a 10% recession, your budget will be at best 15%, 16%, 17% primary deficit. It's not a charge, it's a reality. Germany will have a major primary deficit here. What will Greece have? What will Italy have? And in April 2021 the enhanced or less enhanced surveillance will come and tell you: "Come here, you are at minus 18% primary deficit. Okay, we won't take you to plus 3%, plus 2%, plus 3.5% primary surplus, but won't you go from minus 18% to minus 5%?" You know very well what this means, Mr. Stakoura. It means a fiscal adjustment, a tough austerity worse than that of 2011. It means that at the time our people cross the coronary, we will have a hardest austerity imposed, whether they call it a memorial or not, whether there are Memorandum requirements for the ESM credit line or not. Therefore, the reason why the Eurogroup did not end is out of the question the other day whether there will be or will not be a Memorandum of Understanding and a bond for this credit line. What attitude will you take today, if what they are offering you is something that the Italian and Dutch Minister for Finance have agreed on, that is, a credit line at least without prerequisites? Will you say yes? Mr. Stavura, it is our success and your government that we have fewer dead than we could have from the coronary. And we at Mera25 from the first moment have strongly supported the restrictive measures. We may not have the most dead, Mr Stavura, we will have the most hungry in this country after ten years of monuments with a people already on the canvass of the crisis. We've never come out of the crisis. Mr Stavura, I've told you since the summer, don't tell me that I didn't tell you that the recession is coming, that 2020 will be material, anyway. You know GDP in the last quarter of 2019 decreased, compared to the last quarter of 2018, at current prices, i.e. at real euros that the world has in its pocket. The recession had already begun. With this orchestra brought on by the coronary and hitting us all, regardless of party positions, it is facing this people who have been hungry ten years now a real hunger crisis, particularly with the austerity that will bring a credit line from the ESM. Will you veto today? Because Mr. Conde will retreat. Mr. Conde, you know, he's a Prime Minister, who doesn't have any support. It was originally supported by two parties, one has left and what remains in the government has disappeared in polling. There is the PD, which supports it at the moment, which we know very well what the Italian Democratic Party is. Is the party that will lately put water into his wine, as Mr McCron put water into his wine and left Mr Mitsotakis, left you, forgot about the Eurobond, and they talk about a fund, which actually what he will do? It will commit a portion of our Member States' tax revenue to be repaid. This is not a Eurobond, this is not a debt restructuring, it is the end of the first step that could lead to anything good. Mr Stavoura, if you say yes to what they will agree today, you will have put a tombstone on any hope of recovery in this country. You will, indeed, have put tombstones in the European Union itself as a potential union of shared prosperity. Do you know the tragic what it is? Today this tombstone really comes in, but the European Union is too strong, too rich, to be quickly dissolved. It will be dissolved, however, if you now consent to the non-eurobond. If you agree, we will enter a process that can take five years, ten years in the European Union to dissolve. It's going to be a slow torture process. In the meantime, however, these years that will degrade the European Union, our people, taken care of by the ten years of the memoranda, will become more and more deeply into the debt-government, and its children will increasingly see going abroad. It would be irresponsible not to veto this Eurogroup today, since at least a trillion euros are not available. May I propose to you, what would I say? It cannot - it is true - that there will be a special vehicle in Luxembourg which will be borrowed by some states rather than perhaps all the Eurozone. That's nonsense. There's a solution. The Dutch and Germans have a point. I recognize it to them. We have no Federal Ministry of Finance to issue Eurobonds. But the European Central Bank, which does not, by its statute, have the right to buy your bonds on the primary market directly, do you know what it is entitled to do? To issue a bond, ECB Bond, as the Central Bank of Chile does, of a trillion dollars, only to guarantee it by the European Union and last for thirty years. Do you know what that means? It means that the European Union buys for itself three decades, during which we decide how to create the Federal Ministry of Finance that will take over this Eurobond in thirty years' time. If we cannot today, Mr Staikoura, as Dutch, Greek, German, Italian, Portuguese, Maltese and Cypriots, decide that within thirty years of today - not within 30 days or months - a democratic federation will be set up and a democratic federation will be set up to stop being the euro 'orphan' of a federal Treasury, if we cannot decide this today, we will never have the European Union falling apart. The veto, responsible disobedience is what is necessary to give substance to your words. I am pleased to hear you say today - and in the last few days and weeks and you and Mr Mitsotakis - things that some of us have been saying for ten years. Because when I started talking about Eurobonds in 1999, some of you thought these were 'green horses'. I am pleased, but to give him substance and not just a fig sheet, to hide the concession to today's Eurogroup, you should be prepared to veto, as Mr Hukstra did the other day, because this veto is necessary for Greece's survival, this veto is necessary to save the European Union. We'll support you. You are not going to hear from us "Vasta, Hukstra", as we heard "Vasta, Gerun" in 2015, which was an excellent opportunity to escape from this darkness. I hope you do not collide this year with those who will put our people deeper into the debt colony, as you did in 2015. Mr Stavoura, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 March in this Chamber I said the following. It is absolutely essential that you do not do what you have finally done, that you follow a wide range of measures and constant communications. I heard you say - and you and other government officials - that seriousness means holding some ammunition to fire them in the battle of the recession that comes shortly later. I disagree, Mr. Stakoura. You know that in the macro-economic theory and action, when you come up with the austere wave of a budgetary collapse, a recession, you have to drop at that moment and the last ring of your ammunition in battle, drop all our weapons at that moment, because every moment - I told you, 10 March - every time you are late to give a positive budgetary shock, against this austerity wave, the amount you have to take later in this battle will be increased exponentially. We told you, let go of the taxes. A hotelier is not helping today if you tell him "the things you owe me will give me in five months" when he won't have any customers in the next five months. We said, cut those taxes. You're not taking them anyway. Ow, if you're taking with the stolen man. He'll close if you don't do the haircut and postpone him. Do not add the loan instalments to the next few months, as banks do today, because this will double the flow of red loans. We told you, freeze by Act of Legislative Enforcement of the 'HARAKLIS'. Is it possible to go and give 12 billion, which you will get from the ESS, to the predators because you do not freeze the ERAKLIS? Freeze him now! "HERAKLIS" is over. The program you had for restructuring the banks, through the “HRAKLIS”, died with the crisis. At the moment, only one public red loan management company can solve the problem. We said, give debit cards, 300 euros each, numbered in one million people, to the three hundred thousand families who will not get one of the 800-thousand-thousand-thousand-dollars of the government. It was necessary, it was an excellent opportunity at this time to throw out these Memorandum commitments made by SYRIZA, for example the prepayment of corporate tax, the "HRAKLES" and everything else. We have told you, because we are at least trying to be fully responsible, this. What did we say on 10 March? Take 3.6 billion. We didn't talk about 20, 30 billion. We talked about 3.6 billion. We know and know - you have told us - that in January, when we were passed and shortly before Christmas, you had made two bonds issues. You raised 4 billion on the joint account of your Ministry and the Bank of Greece. Take 3.6 billion of them, which was only 2% of GDP and throw them, together with 'haircuts', in the fight to compress - as you did right with the health crisis - the curve of the existing flotation. You didn't do that. What did you do? These loose measures, slowly, tormenting, which weaken your ability to come face to face with this acuity wave. Apart from that, there is another flaw, Minister. And you share that with SYRIZA. You will allow me to describe it as 'the irresponsibility of the monumental bipartism'. You also think that with some negotiation of the fourth memorandum - say it, the memorial, if you prefer - Greece can remain viable within this framework, which you inherited from Mr Tsipras. It can't be, Mr. Stakoura. It is not possible for Greece to survive without losing another million young people and young people abroad in immigration through this process. This is an excellent opportunity at the moment for you to smash the memorandum and, if you like, for you to take the political advantage of doing so. If you don't do it today, what will they do to you? What will they do to you if you abolish HARAKLIS, if you protect the first residence, saying what we in the Mer25, namely transfer red loans, at least the first residence, the public management company and the people who stay there, to pay one third of their net income to this public management company? If you do this, will you get kicked out of the euro? Are you going to close the banks today? You choose not to do it and I don't know why you choose not to do it and continue to have HARAKLIS, to give another 12 billion, which of course you don't have. You'll borrow them commemoratively to give them to the bank, not even to the oligarchy. You'll give it to the predators from New Jersey and Delaware. You can't believe that's a reasonable policy. As far as you, comrades, colleagues, friends of SYRIZA are concerned, get rid of the fourth memorandum, the leadership that brought SYRIZA where he was brought to him. Is it possible to talk about the pillow? What pillow, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? The 21 billion is a new Memorandum of Understanding from the ESM. There is a possibility that this country will face the autism wave of the recession with a new Memorandum of Understanding from the ESM, which will certainly not even come without prerequisites. These prerequisites are already agreed. Do you think Mr. Reggling will leave you? This SYRIZA pillow is made of thorns. It's nothing soft that the government will put its head on, like the people, to rest. Ladies and gentlemen, I close - and thank you for the time you have given me, Mr President, but I think that moments are particularly important - going back to health. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you know that and I am sure you are thinking of it, that if we do not move from the first phase of the general quarantine to a second phase of the targeted quarantine of the institutions and the decapitation of non-institutions, you will lose control of things as government. First. We have a million fellow citizens who are currently locked in apartments, who will not get a euro from the state, who have no income. They're going out sometime after Easter. I'm sure you're planning to change the measures from the general quarantine to the specialized quarantine. But this, ladies and gentlemen, requires massive tests of Germany, Singapore, Hong Kong. Isn't that something we should be ashamed of? We refer to nurses and doctors as heroes and heroes - and we do well - and applaud them, but we do not examine them. We send them home every night and we don't know if they have the coroner. At least once a week, every week, every hospital worker should be considered. Two. It should, as in Germany, be possible for the citizen with his car or with his feet to go to an outdoor area where they will give him a kit, do the test, deliver it to someone with gloves, through the window, etc., he will give his cell phone or cell phone, in four hours he will come back to the mobile "positive" or "negative". Whoever has the "negative" is released, whoever does not have the "negative" is not released. He goes deeper into the quarantine. Only in this way will we be able to talk about decapitation that will be rational and responsible. Because you're either doing these mass tests or you're gonna start letting people out. And then you know what the danger is, you know him very well - I know that it gives you nightmares - that at some point in May, when the world starts coming back out, the curve will begin to rise again. Then what are you gonna do? Then the economic ormad will be maximized again. We have given all our support to the government in respect of these measures. Yeah, but tell us: How many tests have you ordered? Which one of you ministers is planning how the population will massively test? I'm closing up with a comment on this Parliament spectacle. Today I broke one of our rule in Mera25, that the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group is far from the House, not because we do not want it to work, but because this is not the function of the House. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, especially the Bureau - I am not talking about you in particular, Mr President-in-Office, I am speaking specifically of the President of Parliament, who has failed - that the House does not operate with the three hundred Members of Parliament by teleconferencing. You have an excellent Minister for Digital Policy, which I am sure is furious with the Bureau of Parliament. This House should meet normally by teleconferencing. It is not possible for the Politics Secretariat of Mera25 to hold conferences with all our members through, for example, hundreds of members, and for Parliament not to be able to operate normally by teleconferencing. This is a huge failure of the particular President of this House. I would like to believe that after Easter this will be corrected. Thank you and wish you all the best for today. You have our fellowship and support, but you should veto those which are destroying Greece and Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u167	And we thank Mr. Varoufakis. I must inform you, because it has been discussed in the Conference of Presidents, that the test has been carried out and will soon be held by means of a teleconferencing, after Easter. You can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u168	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u169	The President of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u170	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u171	He said after Easter we'll try...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u172	He said it about the agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u173	The committees have said so, they have not said so about the plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u174	You're right. I'm sorry, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u175	He said it about the agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u176	You're right, it's about the agencies. Thank you very much. It's my pleasure to answer. I'm sorry. Let us also listen to the parliamentary representatives. I shall start with Mr Gregoriadis, who has asked for the floor first and, indeed, very kindly. Then we move on with the rest of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I have asked for the floor first for my normal speech. If this is about the questions to Mr Stakoura, let's go in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u178	Who do they want to ask Mr. Stavura? All the Members of Parliament will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u179	I want the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u180	I am referring to the Members of Parliament, Mr Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I have asked to speak first on my regular speech. Now let all parliamentarians speak in turn. He just spoke to our Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u182	All right, let's go in a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u183	I give my colleagues my turn - I imagine they want to ask the government questions - so that we can move forward more quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u184	I'll start with Mr. Loverdo. Don't make your cross and make me sad, Mr. Loverdo. I thought we'd take it instead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u185	What am I? Am I a bourgeoisie, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u186	You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u187	Thank you. Minister, thank you, first of all. We have provoked on our own initiative, but also on all the parties, this adventurous debate, because of the great importance of today's day. Thank you so much for coming. I know you interrupted teleconferencing to organise this evening's Eurogroup, but the National Representation is fortunately open. It is right that the President of Parliament has made it open. The House never closes. Not even at war is the House closing. Because this day all parties must be informed, not only in the broad lines of your position, but also in specialists. I would like to ask you whether what we are aware of the attitude of the Netherlands and, in particular, the Dutch Minister for Finance is true and whether it has a connection behind him. Because he said that - let us say - after the first closure of the pandemic and the relaunch of the economies there is an ESS - I tell you what I understood - that can give money. However, when the ESS provides money, the States undertake budgetary commitments. He doesn't give money for anyone to do whatever they want. I know very well how important it is, as you said in "KATHMERINA" yesterday, that the debt is being re-equipped. I know that very well because the so-called Eurobond, we as a political party, as a PASOK, have proposed it since the end of the first decade of 2000. In 2009-2010, we were talking about it. But I have, Mr President, in my mind and the final mechanism for these proposals. It is who takes over the cost of interest rates. Who pays at the end generosity and solidarity? Who's paying her? And because richer people pay most when the debt is redeemed, as you well say, I understand from their side and a negative attitude. But I don't understand exactly which eurozone we are in. Which European Union are we in? We must understand that today with the decisions that will be taken or if you do not take decisions today, with the decisions of the summit. Mr President, this is what I am closing down. We have been informed that for the QE it was not our first day's entry given. That is why I have asked you a question and I have asked you to submit the letter from the Prime Minister to Mrs Lagard. We have been informed that we were outside the first QE designs and, indeed, the Greek Government was forced to press through the Prime Minister. I want you to give us the letter to submit it to the National Representation sent by Mr. Mitsotakis to Mrs. Lagard. Mr President, our concerns are reasonable. The next day won't be long, I hope. However, our economies and especially our own economy, on which we took our head off the water, from the sea, suffer, by stopping its operation, enormous damage. So our concern, hence our questions, goes from now on: firstly, does the Dutch Minister for Finance have a connection or was he alone? Secondly and finally, what is the Greek Republic's proposal beyond what we know, Mr Staikora, for the initiative of the nine Prime Ministers, including the Greek Prime Minister, to issue Eurobonds, which is very good?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I will give the floor to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would also like to thank you for coming here today to inform the House of such a critical situation and such a critical meeting as today. It is true - and you have admitted it and it is a common place - that the European Union is currently in a very great crisis of existence. It is the peak of a crisis that has begun in recent years, from the economic crisis, Brexit, all the manipulation on the basis of obsessions of austerity and neoliberalism. And now we see that we have reached a point that will literally be the case, that is to say whether it will proceed to a reorganisation of the institutional, economic and social dimension or whether we will have the graceful blow here, which will ultimately lead to a very great undermine and a dilemma, which the European Union itself will certainly pay for, but the European peoples and our country. You referred to the amount currently being discussed, about 500 billion. It is clear that this is not enough. So we would like you to tell us what possibilities there are and what initiatives of alliances and arguments are to be taken today. Because the officials themselves in Brussels are talking about the need for a total package of at least 1.5 trillion. The Eurobond is very positive that our country supports it and we hope it will continue to support it. Will this perspective remain alive after today's compromise? Will today's compromise be promotional, or will it be an end to the current situation? Here I would like to point out that in the letter signed by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, along with his other counterparts, he is talking about supporting wages and work. Furthermore, the European Commission - and this second question - has put forward the 'SURE' programme with 100 billion to guarantee wages and jobs. Minister, isn't this inconsistent with the MDG that we're discussing today? That is to say, to fight such a battle - and you are right to give it up and hopefully give it a success - and to be in a different perspective. For the ESM. You also mentioned some conditions that seemed to be the position of the Greek Government. I do not want to believe that the Greek Government is in the Dutch position and those who say that any participation of the ESM must have conditions that will sew new commemorative costumes. I would ask you very much to justify your position, if there is your support for terms and conditions, and what terms and conditions we are talking about. For our part, we cannot accept the Greek Government's support for a position of conditionality which will lead to new memorial requirements. Fourth question, as regards liquidity in enterprises, regarding the real economy. Minister, how do you see all these European tools and the inadequate and even some first measures that have been taken? How can they lead to stimulation of the real economy? And without abuse of your time, I would like to ask you a final question which has an indirect relationship with the negotiations in Brussels. What will happen, Minister, with the first residence and suspension of auctions? I think it is time for you to take a clear position in the Greek Parliament that what you are proposing is suspension, at least by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, too. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u191	I have no question to ask the Minister. I will then turn myself into a parliamentary procedure when the parliamentary representatives speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u193	I have only a few questions, Mr President, to the Minister for Finance. Of course, we also thank him and support his efforts, hopefully he is good, and thank him for coming here to the debate to answer our questions. He referred to an extraordinary health emergency tool. My question is what is this about? How much we deserve this amount compared to another country of our size and under what conditions. The second relates to the ANFAs and the SMPs that we are required by the European Central Banks. I'd like to know if you're asking for them and if we're finally getting them. The third is the ESM. Obviously, we're against the ESS. We know very well that this is the European IMF, in fact the German IMF. Any loan it gives will be connected to a memorandum, and of course we are against it. We do not know, however, whether there is indeed a possibility for Eurobonds to be issued, that is to say, if there is a precondition for a Treasury to be issued by Eurobonds. We do not know, too, whether such Eurobonds can be purchased either by the European Central Bank and frozen by the European Central Bank or by the European Central Bank directly. My next question relates to our participation in the QE, which you mentioned earlier. If we are not mistaken, we were simply given an additional amount of 7-8 billion that we had at 15 billion. If that is the case, then our participation is limited, so I want us to know that. The next question is how to use this QE. Will it be just for bank liquidity? Does that mean banks have liquidity problems? The next question is whether it will be used as part of public borrowing, i.e. whether there is such a possibility to be used. And the last question is - because we have heard it, we do not know it - whether the troika, the institutions as such, prohibit the suspension of auctions and link this to the 'HRAKLIS' programme. In other words, as long as there is the HERAKLIS programme, there is no possibility of suspension of auctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Gregoriadis, do you have a question for the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u198	You said earlier that you do not want to ask a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u199	When you gave me the floor, I said that I did not want to speak first because I wanted the series of parliamentary representatives to be respected. You misunderstood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u200	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I have two simple and clear questions for the Minister. The first question is whether the Eurogroup - extortionistically, as usual in the last decade - puts its raw, extortional Eurobonds to an end, has already been banished off the outside, has it, ESM, on or without terms, said yes or will it veto? It's a simple question. And the second question: After its two weeks' warning, both from our leader in total and from the opposition, but above all from our party, that oligopoly in the freezing of the HERAKLIS programme, as the government has every legitimate right to do, means automatically a gift of 12.5 billion from quantitative relaxation, instead of going to our people and saving our economy, if that is what the government and the Minister of Finance intends to do, even for one hour from now. These are the two questions. In conclusion, I should like to add that we, too, are surprised by our fellow Members - and are as if they have fallen from heaven - by the evil and sudden revelation of the European Union. We inform them that this is the same leadership of the European Union, which systematically blackmails our country and in 2010 and 2012 and 2015 intergroup, PASOK Prime Ministers, New Democracy Prime Ministers, SYRIZA Prime Ministers, SYRIZA Ministers who are negotiating. It seems to us how some of the clouds fall. What did they think was beautiful and angelically framed by the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr Gregoryde. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much to all my fellow Members for your thoughts, questions, positions and proposals. I'll be very honest. Mr Varoufakis, you suggested that I follow a specific strategy today. I am directly telling you that I will not follow it, because I do not want to drive my country where you drove it in the summer of 2015. That would be inaccurate irresponsibility, as you said before. I am aware of my responsibilities towards the country, and with this criterion I will act away from creative ambiguities, which have cost us, cost us and cost us in the next 10 years. Second observation: I heard about the ESS. The question is not whether there will be or will not be a preventive line. This has been decided. There is the ESS, there is a preventive support line. Any country she wants to go to make use of this line today. It is not resources that are automatically transferred. It's something that's there available for every country that can get into this mechanism. The question today is how this mechanism will work - as you have all quite rightly asked - on the basis of the current situations. And I was clear in my position, and I repeat exactly as I have formulated it, because Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos has expressed a reasonable concern. The country's position is to have flexibility and conditions that meet the needs of this juncture, related exclusively to exogenous and symmetric shock in the economy. Therefore, any country that wants to make use of this mechanism should only be in terms and conditions which have to do with disbursement of funds to deal with the problems arising from the coronary pandemic. And that is the position that many countries have expressed, not all, not all of them, not the Netherlands and some other European Union countries. It is therefore very clear that any use of the ESM's preventive lines should be limited to the current context and has nothing to do with macroeconomic elements, because the crisis we are facing today in Europe is exogenous, is symmetrical and has nothing to do with endogenous problems of any country of the European Union. As such, it should therefore also be addressed at European level. Amount? It is estimated at EUR 240 billion. There are thoughts to be in 2% of each country's GDP, with the possibility of extending this amount. This programme is EUR 240 billion, about 100 billion, following the guarantees that Member States will give, is the 'SURE' programme and around EUR 200 billion is the additional financing of the European Investment Bank. A sum of 540 billion. That's enough? The answer is - I gave it to my prototype - that it is not enough. You were right to say that the European Central Bank's estimates are for financial needs exceeding EUR 1 trillion and approaching EUR 1.5 trillion. Therefore, more decisions are needed at European level, which will come together with the monetary policy decisions taken by the European Central Bank and which also give liquidity through the Member States - the banking system - to the real economy, because they also cover a large part of the financing of economies. So, here, in addition to those areas of intervention that I have given you - I repeat, the European Investment Bank, the 'SURE' programme on employment and the mechanisms of the European Support Facility in another form and structure - the initiatives being developed and supported are for the adoption of a common European marker on other innovative solutions - Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos said a proposal that I think we will ensure, 'to ensure that the perspective is alive', we are striving to ensure this perspective - as well as the use of the current European budget. But very importantly, it is - because the crisis is transient, but its energies will take longer - the reorientation and strengthening of the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027'rescheduling and redesign', because there must be many policies, targeted, for the coronary. I do not want to deny the efforts that have been made so far at European level, because the finance ministers of the European Union have made important decisions, which have given the Member States - members of the Eurozone - to undertake corresponding expansive budgetary policies. I hear the criticism, which, however, is not solid, 'Why do you give it as a transitional measure?', 'Why do you not give it all forward?' There are many counter-problems, which I do not want to develop to a great extent today. I said it the other day. First - first at European level if you see, every week when the Eurogroup decisions come out, they say, 1% two weeks ago, 2% later. Now they say that budgetary measures are 3% of GDP. What does that mean? Why is the whole of Europe taking the measures apart? Why don't you know the tension, the depth and the main one! - the extent of the problem. We will therefore all agree in this Chamber - and that is what the Greek Government is doing - that it throws many weapons ahead. In a text that was published the day before by a opposition party on the fiscal measures taken by the Greek Government, the table shows that the fiscal measures taken by the Greek Government are more than those by Spain, Italy, Belgium and France. So we've taken forward steps. What we still don't know is when we'll give all the ammunition to battle, because we don't know how long the war will last. But, yes, we all agree, that you need ahead to take a lot of measures, but with caution, because you don't know how long the opponent, the enemy, will last. We therefore need to have a look at it to the extent of the problem and in the post-Koronian era. Here, therefore, at European level, the Eurogroup has made some very important decisions. For example, there are currently no fiscal targets for Greece for this year. There are the famous "automatic stabilisers". What does that mean? Yes, Mr. Varoufakis is right, we will have a recession. We will have a major recession, a heavy recession in 2020 in Greece. And I would like to say to you, in order to understand how difficult the exercise is, that at Eurogroup last night - I am confusing the yesterday's debate, because it took the next day too - the European Commission's estimates of the recession in Europe are from 5% to 10%. You realise that no one can make safe estimates, forecasts of the depth of the recession. From 5% to 10%! We're not talking about 5% to 6%, 7%. From 5% to 10%. So there are no budgetary targets. There are automatic stabilisers. What does that mean to catch the thread from where I first ended up? This means that the greatest recession, the deepest recession, will have reduced revenues. Reduced State revenues will not be calculated in any future budgetary targets. The health crisis of the coronary will lead to the need for more unemployment benefits. My Spanish colleague yesterday said that in two weeks they had a million redundancies - mainly in the home - in Spain. A million redundancies! I say this to see how important an effort is being made in Greece in relation to other countries. Therefore, there unemployment benefits are also excluded from the budgetary targets. These two are called automatic stabilisers. But we didn't just stay there. What else did we decide? We have decided that any public health interventions, the enhancement of business liquidity, the stimulation of jobs and social cohesion - on these four pillars - and these costs are excluded from any financial results. These are the 'adjustments'. The first is automatic stabilisers, the second is adjustments. All this, therefore, implemented by the Greek Government, is excluded from any future budgetary targets. So, in contrast to the argument 'you should go back to the budget targets where you were,' no, because they are 'adjustments', these are because of the transient crisis, which has emerged. I answered Mrs Xenonanakopoulou's question. That is not enough EUR 500 billion. They need more. I told you about a strand of measures - which I think we will agree today - which increases Europe's fire line for today and tomorrow, because we are also talking about the next day of the European economy. There is liquidity from the European Central Bank, and I believe that the prospect of a common debt issue will be alive with appropriate formalities. As far as ANFAs and SMPs are concerned, I want to say: You know very well that ANFAs and SMPs are combining and accompanying country positive assessments. How much are ANFAs and SMPs of the next three years, 2020, 2021 and 2022? It's 3.5 billion euros. Therefore, these EUR 3.5 billion are combined and accompanying the corresponding evaluation every six months. The sixth evaluation, which currently runs in our country, amounts to EUR 600 million. How these resources will be exploited is an issue that is the choice of the Greek Government how it will use it. Surely, however, EUR 3.5 billion today by ANFAs and SMPs, as some suggest, when they had not even secured their use for anything other than debt, I think it is at least irresponsible. As far as public lending is concerned, yes, what has the European Central Bank done so far? That they lowered the country's borrowing costs, therefore banks and businesses. The cost of the country is therefore much lower than before the two decisions of the European Central Bank. I would like to reiterate that these are decisions that we have claimed since 2015 and 2018 and we have never taken. As far as the protection of first residence is concerned, the current government has demonstrated that it is taking appropriate initiatives at the right time with effective and social justice. I would remind those who overlook it or comment far through Facebook on various initiatives by the Government that they themselves signed the first home protection framework to end on 31-12-2019. This government extended it for four months. We are here by the end of April to assess the initiatives that we will take. It will certainly be initiatives that will demonstrate efficiency, determination and social sensitivity. Mr. Loverdo, it's not just the Netherlands. Other countries are also opposed to debt sharing, but also want the use of the ESM in strict terms, linked to the macroeconomic performance of any country. And that's what we're fiercely opposed to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u204	What countries are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u205	It's a lot of countries. Now that's not the point. Let today's process end, and then I can come and talk even more openly and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u206	However, it's not the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u207	It's limiting the connections. At one time you know that not all countries or countries - and Mr Varoufakis also has experience - may not be placed, but hide behind others. There was no voting issue to tell you that it was a majority or a minority. In general, however, they are two specific blocs that have been created at various levels in Europe. I have therefore tried to answer most of the questions. Indeed, the advance development at Eurogroup was disappointing. We wanted a solution. We sought a solution. For 15 hours we've been trying to find a solution. This has not been achieved. Obviously, solutions are the result of compromises. There are always compromises at European level. We want these compromises to be brave today and there to be brave solutions. And one last thing. I have given specific tables of which I would like to place ourselves at some point in the Greek Parliament. 2019 is very important to see the ingredients of wealth. The two main components of wealth - because there is a review of this too, but I gave specific tables on which no opposition parties were put - namely private consumption was in the fourth quarter of 2019 at the highest level since 2006 and investments in the fourth quarter of 2019 were 14.4% on a quarterly basis. It was the highest increase since 2007. What does that mean? It means that we have created a dynamic economy, which we should follow in the next few years. That is why we believed and had sound estimates - and everyone agreed on this - that Greece would run in 2020 at a rate of economic growth of more than 2.5%. What was the problem in the fourth quarter of 2019? It was the stock. The stocks that are an accountable size have dropped the overall rate of economic growth. And for those who know - and there are Members in this House who know well macroeconomicly - it has been shown that stocks over the next period are strengthening the rate of economic growth. In conclusion, we must now act in good time, decisively, in all areas and levels, health and economics. Health is important, of course, and then the economy comes. Follow the experts, drop a lot of guns in battle, have more weapons in battle, but know how long this war will last. Because the crucial thing is to get winners out of this war and the next day to catch the thread from where we left it the day before, with social justice, with a sense of law. That is what we will do with enhanced social cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u208	You didn't tell us about quantitative relaxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Varoufakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u210	Minister, history judges the finance ministers. They don't judge each other. The story will judge us and you and me. But today, with your position and your answer specifically to me, with your reference to the summer of 2015, you have done a bad thing to yourself, Mr Staikora. Today you're going to have to fight a battle. The only weapon you have in there is the weapon of a potential veto. You've just dismissed it. You had President of Parliament's Group in the plenary session that sent you to exercise the veto. And what did you do, Mr. Stakoura? You have just sent through this Parliament a message to the Dutch Minister for Finance, the German Minister for Finance, the rest of the European Union's 'hard' that you will not use this veto. As soon as you rejected, you flew into the trash basket the only negotiating power you had today in the Eurogroup. You didn't have the right to do this evil to yourself, Mr. Stakoura. By the way, I understand that if you need to leave, I won't take it as an insult. I know you're running. I'll talk in total, and if you want to, you can hear it. You talked about 500 billion. What percentage of this half a trillion, Mr Staikora, are credit lines and what percentage is positive financial shocks? Can I talk to you? According to my calculation, of only ECU 500 billion, that is to say, an infinitely low amount, a macroeconomicly insignificant sum. If you compare these amounts that we are talking about, especially as a percentage of the euro area's GDP with what Boris Johnson's government does - which are closer to you ideologically than to us - the government of Mr Trump in the United States, all that reminds us of is the incredible, irresponsible oligopoly of the European Union. To justify the fact that, instead of a forward programme, a major initial positive financial shock, you have chosen the follow-up of measures announced every three minutes, you have invoked - and this is true - that the European Union is doing so too. But is that possible? The European Union has been stubborn in the world for the falconry it has faced this particular crisis, just as it has faced the 2010 crisis. Economic science students are already taught as an example to avoid the way in which the European Union has always missed any opportunity to work quickly and effectively. You are hiding behind the failures and failures of the Brussels and the troika directorate to justify yours. You referred to automatic stabilisers. Mr Stavura, first of all, copy that, I know. Because I first heard the Commission talk about automatic stabilisers. You know, a government invokes automatic stabilisers as what it will save us when it slips. Because the beauty of automatic stabilisers is that they are automatic, that they do not need a government decision to activate them. That's why they're automatic. So when a government says: 'But we have the automatic stabilisers', it basically admits that it has nothing else. It is a confession of a total failure for a positive budgetary shock. You said exceptions. I want - you may not have time to do it now, but you can do it with a press release - to place yourself publicly, voluntarily and responsibly. If next year - which will be done - the government budget deficit is less than 17%, what part will be excluded from the calculation? The part you gave to the national health system? Will the money you lose from the budget because of the collapse of consumption be calculated? Will this be excluded from the financial adjustment that will take place next year by the troika now called 'enhanced surveillance'? You talked about adjustments. Obviously, adjustments will be made. I said it, you heard it. We never told you from Mera25 that you would be asked for a primary surplus of 3.5% next year. Oh, no. They will accept a primary deficit of less than 5%. And how will you do that when you go from minus 18% to minus 5%? Then you will be in the position that was PASOK in 2011. You will be the Minister of Finance who puts the country in the economic 'wall', more deeply in the debt-growth. You talked about the first residence, and you said about SYRIZA. We're not SYRIZA. We condemned SYRIZA's submission to the Troika for selling red loans and abolishing the protection of first residence at the end of 2019. And you do well to remind them. But at the same time as the Prime Minister leading a government, he asks people to stay home - and quite rightly - he also tells him that for eight more months I will keep you at home, but then we can also throw you out through auctions. You said nothing about HERAKLIS. You spoke only of the first residence. Will you freeze the "HERAKLIS" or give the 12 billion to the "parallel" funds? It's a clear question, beyond first residence. "HERAKLIS" died or didn't he die? Is there any possibility of resuscitating the banking system through the “HRAKLE”? I'm telling you one thing. Is there any chance, if you continue to do nothing, that the 'HRAKLES' will not be asked for the funds to be frozen in an act of legislation? What will you do when they take you to court and there is a law that gives them the right to take you 12 billion that you don't have? Freeze him now. You don't answer that. We wonder why. And finally, as regards the last quarter of 2019, Mr Stakoura, that is not an explanation. We told you it would reduce GDP in the last quarter of 2019. You told us that we would have a great deal of GDP growth. Stocks are seasonal. And in 2018 and 2017, there was an increase in stocks in 2007. Do you want to do seasonally adjusted? What happened to seasonally adjusted GDP in the last quarter of 2019? It's down, Mr. Stakoura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u212	First of all, let me tell you that I have not done well and I am very honest in the Greek Parliament. I always make public the assessments that arise and are updated at European level, so that the Greek society will have an absolute sense of reality. On the basis of the latest Eurogroup data, the recession in Europe, as I have told you, will be between 5% and 10%. Each month an economy costs each national economy about 2.5% of GDP. And, yes, it seems that the recovery of European economies will not be 'V', but will be about 'U' to be extended to 2021, which means that there may be upsizing samples this year in most European economies, but it will not be such that it will be the depth of the recession that each month, as I said, costs 2.5% of GDP. That is why it is very difficult to assess the depth of the recession in any European economy. Not every week, not every national government, but Europe, the European Central Bank, the best world organisations are, unfortunately, revising their estimates. And here is the question of how much the measures taken will limit the depth of the recession so that there will be a higher one in a few quarters, but above all in 2021. Mr. Varoufakis, you said about students in universities and what they're taught. Indeed, much of what you mentioned is being taught, but what happened in the first half of 2015. And because you said for example to avoid, this is one of the top examples to avoid. Saying about the banking system and the "HRAKLIS" when on your day the largest deposit outflow has been since the beginning of the crisis in 2010 and the subsequent government had to make a third painful recapitalisation, it goes a lot. I've never dismissed any right. What I said and will repeat is that I do not want to drive my country where you led it in the summer of 2015. So I'm going to stay in this position. And you are talking to a minister who so far - not as a person, but representing the government and the country - has achieved two positive assessments in seven months, disbursements of resources for Greece, reductions of taxes, extension of protection of the first home and treatment of Greece not as an exception, but as a rule, as you have seen from the decisions of the European Central Bank. We have achieved - I am not one of the people, you know, that I make this public, but because you caused me - even in the decisions of Eurogroup to have words that leave no margin of misinterpretation for how Greece is being treated. The Eurogroup's famous decision on automatic stabilisers - because the Eurogroup's decision on Monday was also signed by me - was the decision that it was talking about automatic stabilisers - the initial reference was to fiscal rules, budgetary rules. We have asked and demanded - but this requires credibility, critical word and unknown for a long time for Greece - that two other very important words be entered next to the rules, i.e. targets and requirements. What does that mean? And goals and preconditions. Because Greece, as you know, is under enhanced supervision. It could therefore in future, as you quite rightly said, come and say "to go back where you were". This is how we ensured for Greece, which is under reinforced supervision, that it is treated as the other countries. So the crucial issue is what result you bring for the country. I promise I will strive to bring the best results for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u214	Sorry, I owe Mr. Loverdo something. Obviously I cannot give a letter from the Prime Minister. So you realise that I did not refrain from answering your question, but I do not have a letter that I could give. Would you allow me to leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u215	Of course, Minister. Good luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u217	Mr Varoufakis, you have the floor for a minute, because we must respect Mr Voutsi. We're out of hand, and I'm in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u218	I promise. I need less than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, what is this? These are unprecedented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u220	You're right, Mr. President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u221	It's also personal, Mr. Voutsi. It'll be less than a minute, I promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u222	It's not your fault. You'll hear why she's unprecedented in a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u223	I apologized, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u224	The Minister referred to the fact that he does not want to bring the country where I brought it in the summer of 2015. I would like to tell you that those who brought the country with the capital controls in 2015 are the same as those who are currently destroying the European Union, vetoing the Eurogroup for the Eurogroup, which Mr Stagioras now agrees with us, while in 2015 he disagreed, that it is prerequisite for the survival of both our country and the European Union. As far as universities are concerned, I just want to know why the Minister caused me to tell him that there are colleagues, such as Paul Grugman, Amartia Sen and Danny Rodrick, who teach in the summer of 2015 as an example of a Europe that takes out its eyes and a Eurogroup that drowns our position within the Eurogroup, did harm the European Union. I hope Mr Stagioras has recorded today, pressing the record button on the teleconference, at his teleconferencing conference, because history requires us to submit a report on what the citizens of Greece and Europe have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. Mr. Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by commenting on the procedure. Mr Stavoura's intervention, which was requested by the Chamber, was quite useful and beneficial, had to be exhausted in the questions and the comments made by the parliamentary representatives of the parties. This ping pong was completely out of process - not in personal terms - with the leader of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u227	He's the captain, he had the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u228	Then, a second round with the parliamentary representatives, who are quasi-presidents here, i.e. representing the leaders of the parties, should follow, in order to say the whole of their evenings on the issue, what the country should propose today, to criticise the government, as Mr Varoufakis has done. In other words, it is another procedure which you have initiated and which you have deprived of from the other Members of, who have not been kindly asked to behave or surprised by what has happened. However, the procedure was not right at all. Mr. Varoufakis' staff began and ended in the report for the first half of 2015, for which he could actually make a one-minute report. That's why I reacted like this before. Anyway, it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u229	I apologized to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u230	Yeah, that's an exception. Because when the political leaders spoke here last week, Mr Varoufakis was missing. And he was missing with an opinion, because, he says, we should do it through teleconferences, etc. Okay, that's not it, because we're not helping. Let's actually go. I am prepared and would like to make an intervention on the issues of democracy raised in the present major crisis. However, the references made by Mr Stagioras and the major issue that exists today at the Eurogroup meeting obliges me to say a few things. The position of Mr Stakoura on the one hand leaves strong doubts on the Greek Government's own position, as it is evolving through the debate that has been taking place for three days, on what will finally be this position and the agreement on what scope of compromise, if this compromise is to a minimum proactive. In fact, his placement and twice leaves very open issues that raise strong questions about the consistency of this position, at least from the one he started, when he started with the right insistence on re-conciling the debt. On the other hand, however, this position, Mr President, fully confirms the central core to which our rapporteur, Mr Tsipras, referred this morning, of the proposal, which was made by SYRIZA, on behalf of the President of SYRIZA, but also those responsible a few days ago, that is to say, that there is a need for forward and immediate measures. For Mr Stagioras himself, if you have noticed it - I believe everyone noticed it - he repeated it twice not by accident. He pointed out that, at first time, in the first debate, the recession in Europe would be 5% to 10% and not 3% to 4%, which he insisted, in contrast to Mr Tsipras' proposal, on the SYRIZA's proposal three-day time ago. Of course, he said that every month he was charging a 2.5% of GDP. And we all know that we don't know exactly how many these months will be. And he said, moreover, that it would not be "V" growth, i.e. at a high speed after, if it became the great descent and the great recession, but, from now on, they have precipitated the ground - and it is clear and honest that he has submitted it to the National Representation - that it will be 'U', that there will be time in 2021 and possibly in the next few years of a small improvement and slowly overcoming the recession to go to a development scale. What Mr Stavros said today is absolutely revealing how the economists of SYRIZA, the President of SYRIZA, have put the proposals before the Greek people a few days ago for a comprehensive programme, which, precisely because aheadly, would have prevented the structural or short-term weaknesses of the Greek economy, so that we do not have these developments that may lead us to two-digit recession figures, a great deal of time from starting a new development. And obviously, on the basis of what he said at the outset about the 500 billion in relation to the current Eurogroup decisions, from there to there will open a path for formal or informal memos through the submission to the ESM. It was extremely revealing and useful to this end the Minister of Finance. As we should also note that it has admitted that while everyone from the resigned responsible of the European Union for health matters to Mrs Lagard, who has the first word at the European Central Bank - things that our rapporteur has also mentioned this morning - they say about the need for an intervention of 1.5 trillion, the entire debate that is taking place and the blockage that is taking place is, in the first place, the sum of 500 billion. What did Mr. Conde say yesterday? Did we notice? He said: "I had in the December budget predicted 220 billion debt and debt service, because we have 2.3 trillion debts, for 2020, without a coronary. What are you saying? What percentage will I get from the 500 billion, even if there are no direct measures, i.e. a credit line, a memorandum, etc.''.'. It's completely out of place and time. This is obviously evidence once again - and that is why we have said the disgrace to the European leadership - for a historic moment in which Europe, following the failure in the face of the debt crisis, after the enormous failure in the face of the crisis of the refugee - immigration issue, following the multiple failures in the modern world and in our region, can shape and play a vital role in order to have peace, another type of development, to address major issues, such as the climate crisis, etc., it comes to a political failure. Because it is not a neutral procedure that leads to these failures. They are political views, they are enforcing force, imposing power against the weak. And it is obvious that the undermining, the abolition, in essence, of the entity of the European Union. In this historical crossroads we are. Everyone recognizes it, but not everyone seems to have the same level of responsibility. Let me also mention two three points in relation to other things that Mr Stagioras has said and was referring to the governance of the SYRIZA. Don't say again about the deposit outflow in the first fifteen months. For you are well aware that from the 41 billion actually left until that two-month agreement was concluded on the informal promotion of the fifth review, which had not been made, 21 billion had left before the 2015 elections and had left, while your ministers who sat on those seats were out every day and said: "Our money will be sent abroad if SYRIZA is going to come to the government." Don't talk about such things at the National Representation. Also, for the first residence, twice there were extensions and remodeling of Katseli law and became the law of Katseli - Stathaki. There was full protection until the end of 2019. And with the new framework of the budget, which was, because we had come out of the memoranda, it was certain that there would be no more prolongations, but much better progress on this issue, which Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has already given you - immediately and today to make a commitment to an extension, at least until the end of the year. Even for the QE, you know very well that the two phases cannot be compared, because then the SYRIZA government then played and succeeded in restructuring the debt. It was not on the substance at that time that the QE was playing, but the recovery through the same powers of the ability to go out on the markets, as was done twice, at constant and lower interest rates. This was done and was done through the substantial restructuring of the debt. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are in a global situation. Everyone is saying that there can be a half a billion more of our fellow people who will trample below the poverty line. At the same time, one and a half billion are at risk of jobs worldwide and at the same time millions - five million - first and foremost - are being demanded of young nurses and others for health. I heard this morning, regrettably, also from my dear colleague, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, some of the things that are supposed to be a responsible record and not a bit of a dissatisfaction. They were heard from this Step on ideals, revolutionary gymnastics, bids and, of course, outside this Step, from Facebook, from the responses to parliamentary control, etc., the poisoning "what would happen, imagine if SYRIZA was in rule in this crisis". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, one or two more minutes. So that's not a consensual attitude at all. On the other hand, it is a great mistake to consider it this way, because I believe that we should be accountable and accountable now, without any threat to the future, through responsible dialogue, through arguments, with social sensitivity, with ethics, but not with silence. Not with silence! Do not demand silence and, in fact, say that it is irresponsible up to the limits of betrayal for those who speak and make strict criticism where they need to. For there were, of course, ladies and gentlemen, restrictions on movement and economic activity and there are prohibitions and there is a public debate, because it was absolutely necessary to deal with the epidemic, and on these measures there was a broad understanding of the political system. But there is a public debate in Greece, Europe, internationally, about what the consequences of democracy, rights and freedoms are in this particular situation. There is a government responsibility there. I want to be clear. There are phenomena, in some respects, that we are attempting to exploit policy, political manipulation, a communication policy, so that through the crisis and taking the responsibility of the anti-population forces, everyone - I would say - of the anti-population forces, there are political gains. Let me tell you that there is a lack of information on the limits of most private media broadcasts, that is, more channels of private television. It is unacceptable that the overall proposal, which was put forward by the President of SYRIZA for the whole economy, as well as other proposals put forward by the parties, which have been tabled to this House, here outside the House, should be informed of the interventions that exist, of information fraud and information fraud. No Constitution, no restriction, no consensus exists, so that the presence and proposals of the anti-pollution forces on the channels have been nullified. There is also a selective over-information sometimes also a concealment. I take responsibility and take the opportunity, which is here and the Minister, Mr Contozamanis, because, like all of us, I am really watching, with respect and with great interest every afternoon, the information that is being given by the Professor, but also by the other government officials, to tell you that while you specifically ask what has happened, who are the appointments appointed, what is the future of the nominations, the future of those appointed, how many are the doctors appointed, you do not respond. While you are questioning whether there is a strategy for the particular vulnerable groups, for the particular structures, for particular population groups, which are either locked up or are particularly social and other groups, you are not responding, as are a number of other things. There is also the question of personal data. Democracy is being tried. We'll all give the answer together. We will all strengthen our answer together. But we must be aware. We need to know that direct assignments cannot be made without transparency. I congratulate the current President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, because he has obviously accepted, with the Government, that a special meeting of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency will take place tomorrow. I just want to say one thing. It is possible that 11 million will be given to a company so that it does not pass through transparency who eventually takes these millions. Why is this company going to make millions available? In other words, 13.5 million already in the regions, seven of them for communication reasons and 24 million for the withdrawal of the annual payment obligation. We're right. Money must be given in particular to the press and the media. The information is being tested. There is a lot of support for all of us, with openness, with decisions consensual, in order to support the workers, but also those companies, which at this critical stage of internal incarceration, play a special role. But not so, because you realize what that means. Finally, they heard about irresponsible trade unionism and the world these days, when people really took the lead to give their own version, their own testimony, which they are not invited to give to the channels. All channels host views of the first line doctors from Italy, Spain, America, from everywhere, from Greeks living in Sweden, but not through Greek hospitals, not through the Greek trade union movement, for aspects that the government could positively satisfy, demands, deficiencies, objections. Why is that? I close by telling you that all of this and much more, which is affecting, which opens up questions of democracy - it is clear - should and could be discussed at the level of parties leaders and from the side of the Change Movement and from the side of SYRIZA and from the side of all parties. From the outset, the issue had been opened up for discussion at the level of party leaders in various ways, from the meeting with the President to the day-to-day consultation. It is incomprehensible, Mr President, that the current Prime Minister, the current Minister of Economy, as we pass through this critical crossroads, Eurogroup today, the day after this summit, as there is such decisions, because there is this chaos, where you saw each day increasing the figures and we say that we went from 3%, 4%, 10%, to 10% of the possible recession, and we do not know what is coming, we do not know if there will be a second wave in September, it is inconceivable not to ask for consultation, not to ask for cooperation, not to speak to the Chief of Police Vice-President and the leaders of the other parties in view of such major decisions for our people and for our country. In conclusion, this also shows a mood for democracy, which has been suspended to some extent, within the limits of the Constitution - and that is what we all understand - it also shows a disposition of political manipulation and exploitation, which is a great political slip. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much for your suggestions, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u233	One minute to put them in a classroom. Until the space is cleared, Mr. Chrysomalis has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament, in order not to misinterpret what I said in my report, not only did I not ask for the silence of the Officerial Response, but I said that criticism is welcome and we are glad to hear it because we too may also have mistakes and omissions within this pandemic. However, what I have stressed is how divisive logical and divisive messages are made of themselves, I dare say, not many of your members, you as a party and personally, but, if you agree, you will want these voices to be isolated, so that they do not continue in the midst of a pandemic. And in particular, we heard from some of your executives that they were struggling to reach the number of dead equivalent to the fire in Matti to offset what exactly? As for 'we'll be accounted for personally, but I too as a party, we have no one to deal with. We only have an account to give the Greek people for our things, and so do you as a Qualified Opposition, I suppose, and we will all be judged by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor, Mr Contozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. As some things have been heard about the Ministry of Health, I would like to say this once again, the measures taken by the government not only restricted the spread of the virus, but mainly with care for our fellow citizens, have succeeded and made the National Health System operational. The National Health System today, apart from coronary patients, provides its services to every citizen in need. Hospitals keep up to date. The country's primary structures serve the world. In fact, there are also facilities. And private doctors, contracted doctors with EOPY, physiotherapists, dentists, pharmacies function normally in order to serve our fellow citizens. Of course, in each FPI, we have various arrangements to improve the daily lives of these citizens and of the FPI we are currently in existence, particularly as regards intact prescribing, in terms of the distribution of drugs, to our fellow citizens who do not have the opportunity to go to the pharmacy. Also, we resolve issues related to our insecure and insecure nephropathic fellow citizens, who need dialysis. So, depending on the development of the disease, we take the appropriate measures. I would like to stress once again, because it has also been said in this Chamber, particularly with regard to carcinomas care, certainly such an incident, a chemotherapy, a surgery in cancer patients, is an emergency, is urgent and is treated by hospitals in our country. Under no circumstances has the provision of services to this sensitive group of our citizens and to any sensitive group. In fact, we are putting more weapons into the battle we have announced, such as a home visit, where the doctor can go to the homes of patients, telematics - advisory and, of course, much more that has been provided for in legislative acts or ministerial decisions. Because you mentioned the number of recruitments, we are not just in terms of recruitment, but in general in terms of the whole management of the health system and even supplies, we are quite clear. The numbers are relentless. We always provide numbers, and these numbers change every day, because not only the recruitments are increasing, but also the supplies we make in the system in order to be ready. You all see what's going on globally, a war. And the "little" Greece has succeeded and has managed not only to limit the number of cases, but to have sufficient equipment and materials. We have stressed many times that the period when the use of this material was done uncontrollably has passed. There must be a pitiful and rational use in terms of the protection materials and materials used by our sanitary people. In a very short time the National Health System has managed to do things that it had not achieved so many years and to overcome distortions and shortcomings of the past and to be effective and efficient in managing this battle. In fact, not only in terms of the number of recruitments, because we are clear and clear, as I have said, and the decisions in DENMARK I think it is the best proof in what we say, but in terms of supplies, because this has also been heard both in committee and in other cases, we need to make it clear that the procedures are normally respected, we are simply trying to speed up the procedures. There is transparency in the whole management. There's a record. In fact, a special committee of people of unknown prestige records these provisions and the procedure that is being followed, so that nothing is left behind from this story. Of course, we respect the money of the Greek people, because we must spend it wisely. And with great pleasure in this effort, to say this once again, it is very positive that the contribution of private individuals, private sector bodies, who give us donations and money, so that the next day after the crisis the health system will have a deposit so that it becomes more effective, more efficient and more useful to every Greek fellow citizen. I would like to emphasise on this point, because it concerns the National Representation, the great contribution of the Greek Parliament with the EUR 8 million free of charge, which will be allocated to the creation of Intensive Treatment Units. Thank you very much as the Ministry of Health and as the Government of the National Representation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, too. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has the floor on the amendment he has tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, today is a parliamentary procedure which has a special interest in calling for the fourth act of the Government in a series of legislative acts, a legislative act which contains very important legislative initiatives on our part, which affect the labour market, society and the economy. On the basis of this initial remark, I would like to say introductory terms that as I have been following the discussion since the morning as it is being held here in Parliament, I am pleased that from all sides of this House, regardless of the different approaches and opinions, there is arguments, there is mild placement, there is a consensual climate and that is particularly good at this time. So, by succeeding the former President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, in Stepma, I would like to say that I particularly appreciate the large, calm and consensual way in which he has also been placed and this honour, and it is an example to all of us, how, at national critical times, such as that we are going through, we all have to be in a responsible manner. Because what goes through our country is not something that is imported from within, it is not a matter of our country, it is a matter of global, European, which we do not know either the extent, the depth, or the tension, as most speakers have rightly said. I would like to start with some latest information on the labour market and it is timely, because they have been made public today, and it concerns both ELSTAT and the 'ERGANI'. They are elements which are inextricably bound up with the content of the legislative act and with the initiatives that we have taken as the Ministry of Labour and as the Government to apply the umbrella of protection above society, over workers and businesses at the same time. This morning ELSTAT's data was announced for the month of January. On the basis of ELSTAT's figures, unemployment fell to 16.4%. It was deviated compared to 18.5% of January 2019. This is a 2,1-stage reduction. What does that mean? It means that the Greek economy had created a dynamic degression of unemployment, which continued since 2014 uninterruptedly, as degressivity began in 2013 on the basis of the strong reforms that we had taken as government at the time. The whole de-escalation, unfortunately, according to the forecasts we have made at the Ministry of Labour, will be halted, because the forecasts for 15% of unemployment, as was in the budget that we recently voted on, will not continue. The crisis crosses society, crosses the economy and deep wounds in the economy do not only hit our country, hit Europe and the world. So the forecast is that the degression of unemployment will be halted and this is an unpleasant development. The elements of the "ERGANI" programme, which were also made public today and which concern the month, namely the time of the crisis, show that, in fact, the blow to the economy by the pandemic in Greece has been and has resulted in a negative result of forty thousand nine hundred and three jobs in negative balance. It is the highest balance in March of all previous periods. But there are also the second lines of reading the 'ERGAN' balance that are of interest and of interest to see it because this is where we can draw some conclusions and lead to tomorrow. Interesting conclusions are that redundancies, which appear in the ‘ERGAN’ system, fall short of the redundancies of 2019. In particular, redundancies for 2019 were ninety thousand twenty-four, while for 2020 seventy-four for 2020. What does that mean? It simply means that the negative balance of 'ERGAN' is not related to a wave of redundancies. It relates to the fact that no new jobs have been created in tourism. In other words, there has been a negative balance because of the loss of new jobs created by the tourism sector every year. In fact, the most interesting thing is that on 20 March, as the 'ERGANI' diagram is constantly moving negatively, it stops moving on the day the government took the decision and proceeded with the legislative action that we are debating today, namely the ban and cancellation of redundancies. And that's very important and interesting. So, by entering into the essence of our debate, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that we have gone ahead with initiatives and measures, which have been highly appreciated by society. I don't want to say that's reflected in polling. It is a fingerprint, which is seen from the measures we have taken, from the actions we have taken and from what we have spread over society as a protective umbrella, which seems to be taking place. In particular, in this act of legislation on 20 March we brought it to the House, we decided very difficult, unprecedented, but that was necessary and temporary in the sense that all that we are discussing today as emergency measures will be lifted the next day when we get out of the crisis and that is what is important. Second, what measures did we take? We have taken steps to help the people of work at the same time to keep jobs and, at the same time, to keep businesses alive. It is wrong that anyone who approaches the issue on one side, that is to say, support only the entrepreneurship of our country. It is wrong, and anyone who supports the other side, to support only the jobs, because these two are in a direct connection. If the next day there are no businesses, there will be no jobs. That is why all our forces, as this legislative initiative today is reflected in the legislative initiative today, come to be linked to this political objective that we have set ourselves, to keep businesses alive and to keep jobs. You see in this act legislative initiative, such as moving the time of payment of insurance and tax debts. You see initiative, which comes to cover employee insurance contributions. You see our legislative will to give EUR 800 to workers. We are not satisfied, but budgetary policy is what enables us to do. You see to support the entrepreneurship of our country and the workers at the same time as the rent that we give with a 40% reduction. All these initiatives in this regard are aimed at creating the conditions that are balanced and at the same time keeping businesses and workers. And I want you to know something, because I hear it many times as a criticism, because one cannot easily read on the second lines of the texts of the acts of legislation that are reasonably extraordinary and cannot understand them. A common denominator of all the legislative initiatives that we have taken so far for all, business, free professionals, for those who are practicing entrepreneurship is the protection clause for jobs. There can be no business-friendly measure, as we have put it in legislative acts, without the necessary condition of maintaining jobs. And that is the cornerstone of our policy, so that the next day, holding on to jobs, the resumption of the economy, with resources, will also strengthen the economy and business and be able to keep workers in their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, too. Mr. Loverdo, would you like the floor for intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u241	I did not want to speak on a point of order, but I was encouraged by the position of Mr Voutsi, the former President of Parliament. You weren't here this morning. Today's agenda is related to the MDG. However, because there are these very serious developments in the Eurogroup and we know that the Minister, Mr Stagioras, is in a teleconference on the preparation of the afternoon sitting with a Eurogroup teleconferencing, we have taken the initiative to ask everyone to come and make a commitment - Mrs Xenogiannakopoulou, I, Mr Lebanese, all the representatives - to speak to him for two minutes, to ask him two questions to answer and leave. In fact, I also took the responsibility of begging him to do so, and I told him that we are all committed to being populous. Mr Varoufakis, who spoke 20 minutes and minutes, broke his own abstention because he did not like what is happening, came here, personalised the subject, turned it around and the debate, Mr President, found a wall. The debate we wanted did not take place. Mr. Vouches is right to say that we didn't talk then. I, for instance, had a question in my speech after hearing his answers. But, because we were all committed, I didn't take the floor. You realise that it is not right for us to use Parliament. Parliament is here, it is a place of democracy. But he has his Rules of Procedure. We have referred to the decision of the Conference of Presidents to do this and politely we have all stood. This thing that happened now was derailing, derailing real. And that's not enough, it's not enough where he's not coming, it's not enough that he's only here today to make that scene, and then he's made an observation that we have to close down. Parliament, Mr President, never closes. I told my previous speech that even when London was being bombed, the English Parliament was open. I do not know where he was sitting - I do not have this historical detail in mind - but he stayed open, because in addition to the usefulness we have to adopt acts, etc., it is also a symbolism towards a pandemic that the country will stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u243	Please, Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u244	If you want during your speech, Mr. Gregoriadis, you can say what you want. We are starting with the Parliamentary Representatives upside down, as Mr Clinton Gregoriadis has asked for the floor to speak from Merra25 and to bear in mind that he only has three minutes, because Mr Varoufakis spoke for twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u245	I know, Mr. President. I imagine, however, that in the regular manner of those who chair the parliamentary representatives you will give two more minutes. The three minutes are very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u246	Then Mr. Loverdos will tell me to talk to him for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u247	I'll stay here if they'll talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u248	Good. They'll all talk for three minutes. Please, Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u249	So I do not answer Mr Loverdos, even though I have the right to do so, but you have just deprived me of it now, Mr President. I mean, I had the right to do it, but I don't have the time. Ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber of Deputies, congratulations. All the congratulations you've got, you've got. And to explain, you took them because you heard the scientists, the specialists, the doctors, and you took timely measures for the pandemic. Which doctors, who scientists, which experts? The ones who sadly protested the day before yesterday - World Health Day - were prejudging in the courtyard of "Evangelism", only because they were protesting why they are helpless, unprotected and throwing them into the battle with lions. I would remind you that at the same time such demonstrations of protest occurred at the same time in the yards of all the hospitals of Attica, i.e. the "Tzarios", the "Laika", the "Attica" and so on. Anyway, thankfully - yet - you have heard the experts and scientists at the beginning of the crisis. The question is why you don't listen to them now. Why don't you listen to the representative of Greece, for example, whom the Prime Minister himself appointed to international organisations, who is asking that we prepare from now on for the second and third phases of the pandemic response plan? Why don't you listen to him asking for more tests, "the more tests are done," he said. Why don't you listen to the hospital doctors and their federation calling for protection measures, recruitment of health workers, new intensive care units and private healthcare? For some time now you have a letter from three different universities, which asks you to offer their staff and equipment for mass tests. Mr. Mitsotakis, why don't you answer these three universities? We also know for a long time that the National Center for Hepatitism can do up to a thousand tests a day. Why don't you finally use this possibility? Of course, I do not imagine you expect any congratulations from anyone here because you continue not to bring, one week after we have publicly warned you from this Step, an act of legislation on the freezing of 'HRAKLE'. He said it before our Chief, let me not repeat it myself. But, indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, since you continue to refuse even today to freeze HARAKLIs and you are very keen to donate 12 billion to the predator funds, what do you expect all of us Greek citizens, in which - I remind you - are your voters? We also do not congratulate you at all on the concept of individual responsibility. Let us suspect that, if necessary, you will use it as an argument to blame the citizens. And let me tell you a secret? We don't live through individual responsibility, Mr. Mitsotakis. We live through a conscious choice of defending our society. And we have learned this well in recent years, in the last years of your memorial, Mr Mitsotakis, where all our public sector and our public property have been sold. Since then, we have learned and know how to defend collectiveness and society. That was when we first realized the value of solidarity. In a pandemic there is no individual responsibility. There is a responsibility of the state and state. The last word, Mr Mitsotakis, you will not get any more congratulations is your decision not to resist the illegal priesthood either. Eurogroup (EUSR) of the leadership of the European Union. It is the same Union that you have presented to us all these years as our only shield of protection, which we must not lose under any circumstances. You see what this Union is doing now. He's blackmailing each other. He's stealing each other's sanitary material. And Germany and the Netherlands are doing nothing but demanding, by blackmail, new loans and new memos. So this Europe of Europe, Mr Mitsotakis, of which you are the exemplary prisoner, now in the collapse of the security of your cell, or it will be made from the beginning of movements like ours, Diem25, or it will be dissolved very soon in the midst of them. From this double crisis that comes, we will not go into tougher and more authoritarian systems. Instead, we will go to democratic, open societies, accountable to the peoples and strong public systems. When the good is defeated by COVID -19, the country's Prime Minister will be amazed to realize that another virus, most inhuman, will be defeated by global neoliberalism. Then all of us free people of this world will repeat "neither evil misdeeds of good," and we will continue ahead, while you, Prime Minister, will continue to live in a habit now in your cell, wondering how it is possible for your capitalism to withstand Marx, Lenin, Che Gebara, and especially how it is possible to endure so many years in the interests of all the peoples of the world, in order to finally collapse, so unexpectedly, as soon as it has been revealed how unwise it is for the citizens to leave blind and uncontrolled worship of profit and markets, who have disappeared everywhere, gradually, every kind of public protection and left in the place of unscrupulous predators, your known parasitic oligarchs, to try to regain once more from the rare opportunity to increase their pandemic profits. Did you hear that? "Observation"! That's how she was seen, Prime Minister, because so inhuman, impasse and paranoid is the neoliberalism you support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, too. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. There are a lot of things I want to say and time is very little. Fortunately, there is this sacred step here, and we can express ourselves, speak and speak our opinions, because what we are living for is unprecedented. I will begin - it is not exactly a complaint - with a record of the reality and a labelling of it. It's really unbelievable that you can't express yourself. So long as we are all at home, I would like to point out that - and I will now connect it to the channels and television stations - it has spoken of every walnut. Every great guy has been out in interviews, Skype, live connections. Even now that they have to cover a lot of time with panels, with windows, with guests, a Christian colleague has not come out to call us, get us on Skype, get us off the phone to say a word, say something about the coronary. It's unbelievable! I've been doing this job for twenty-seven years. I expected that, when I was a Member of Parliament, when I had been nominated and since the world honoured me with his vote, some colleagues would have given me the opportunity to speak. Unbelievable! So let me say that we also have Skype, we have phones. You can call us. It's unbelievable! The only step we have is this sacred step. So in the very short time I have, you will allow me to say, addressing the New Democracy: I don't know the gentleman. Just in the morning when I came to Parliament I listened to a radio and to my Zapping, I fell into a very secure radio environment for you, the radio of SKAI, where Mr Romanos spoke. He's the Contact Director of the New Democracy, Mr. Roman. I don't know the gentleman who he is. I got on the Internet a little bit, I saw him, a kid's age, and it's a shame because he's too young - three, not even thirty - to be a liar, to lie. It's a bad start you're making, Mr. Romane, from the point of view you have. You cannot say - I say again in the safe environment of SKAI, where you were delightful with the journalist - that they are liars who say - because that is what you said - that immigrants are moving - as you say, I will say illegal immigrants - while the Greeks are locked in their homes. Who are they liars? The ones who say it or do you say that lie? You're a liar, unfortunately. You also said that they are liars who claim that PPC or Mr Hatzidakis makes the offer not through the citizen and that it is not paid by the citizen, but by PPC. You're a liar and you know something in general. This lisverish with the media, which the Prime Minister has also referred to, will not do you good. You know well that history makes circles and when you find yourself at some point "in the bulb" - because you will find yourself at some point, you will not be a life the best, as the media presents them and poll companies - then you will see backwards. We asked the Minister of Finance a question. He didn't answer us. I wanted to put it on today, too. What do you mean, "subjections"? Institutions aren't the troika? Aren't you saying we're out of the memoirs? Aren't you saying there are no memos? So how can the troika, the institutions, forbid the lifting of first home auctions, if you like? Because that's what they do. And when the Minister was asked today, he said, "We'll see what we're going to do." He did not say 'I detract from that categorically'. So, since April will come out quickly and we'll get out of the coronary, from the pandemic, I'm afraid of what we'll see when we get out of the coronary pandemic, what we'll meet in our country, where you continue to distribute illegal immigrants to the right and left, what we'll find when people get back to his jobs, when he sees that entrepreneurs can't respond because the measures you're taking are wrong. Mr Brutsi, you said a moment ago and you admitted that we are now entering unemployment. You said unemployment fell by 2.1%, but this thing will be cut now. What will happen to the deficits that are currently created in businesses, companies, professionals, free traders and others? You say "good, don't pay it, you guys, put the two months later, three months later, four." But I'll be summoned to pay for it! Without producing, without collecting, without selling, how am I gonna pay for it? So unemployment will come anyway. For the rent you said, it's about the big ones. There are many small companies and companies that pay two, three, four, five grand rent a month in their businesses and are closed. Two, three months, these people are over, they can't respond. We now go to another subject and I will close with that, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u252	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u253	Listen to something and I address all those who say that you have not filled, because that is what you have done, you have exploited the presence of the world and the Greeks in the homes and you have filled Greece with illegal immigrants. And I will say this to you: this morning I received these photographs - and I will table them in the Minutes - and I would very much ask all my colleagues to take these pictures which are colored. I got fifty-five photos from Moria. It is unbelievable that these illegal immigrants - whom we have wrapped up, paid, fed, gave them shelter, everything - for Greece, everything that reminds of Greece and anything that reminds us of Christianity. They have destroyed everything, damaged properties, farmhouses in which they have unleashed everything, desecrated churches, improvised slaughterhouses. It's all here! Color photographs from Moria, which are shocking, images broken on the floor, burnt churches, cross down, desecrated Greek flags, everything! That's what's happening in Moria. I have them up, we have them up, and as a party, I will now deliver them for the Minutes. Mr Chryssollis, come and get them - since you are also representing the government here today, you are also the rapporteur - to give them to your colleagues. That's what happens outside. Watch what we'll give! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we asked for something - and I am closing, Mr President, and I have already left - but you have not done so. With a thousand times you left the churches open - I have no time, unfortunately, to raise this issue - and you finally banned it by a robe, in a bad way yesterday and Mr. Chardalias and Mrs. Kerameos and loudspeakers coming in, as if by the loudspeakers the virus were going through, but also the Saint Light would go to the houses of the Greeks. I'm really sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Put a fax on your desk to find you. Now the Minister, Mr Contozamanis, has the floor for the amendments. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u255	Yes, Mr President, I would like to inform the House that we are accepting the following amendments, namely the general number 257 and the number 27, the number 258 and the number 28, and the number 261 and the number 31. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, too. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go into the issues relating to health, the act of legislation and other matters. Both our rapporteur and the Secretary-General of the Central Commission have been mentioned in detail. I will dwell on my position in the debate that has been opened and Mr Stakoura's presence extended to the Greek Parliament as well, in relation to developments in the European Union and in the Eurogroup. The JRC does not cultivate any illusions for the European Union, such as what Mr Varoufakis said, that the European Union can become a union of common prosperity. No spring night dreams can be made and Mr Varoufakis himself knows that very well. But he lies, as the other urban parties lie. Let us remember the famous 'EEC of the peoples' cultivated by the various forces in our country - and not just - which was the end of what. He had the European Union and the Eurozone with these policies. And we do not cultivate delusion, because we do not want to obscure its well-known reactionary character, which was one of the genocide of the European Union, a lion pit. We are moving towards the European Union on the basis of reality and not the fantasies of everyone. Because the European Union is not an alliance of peoples, it is an association of imperialist character at regional level, it is an association of urban states with different levels of development and therefore different individual interests, resulting from their economic position, a position which is determined by the anisometry of the European Union. These existential contradictions and competition are exacerbated in conditions of capitalist crisis, by testing the coherence of the European Union through the strengthening of centrifuge trends. What have we been watching lately? The endless bazaars for managing a new even deeper and longer-term capitalist crisis, an accelerator whose cause was not the pandemic of the coronary. After all, the slowing down of the international capitalist economy, the concerns expressed about its course were recorded long before the pandemic broke out. The bazaars are at their centre of the Eurobond, i.e. if the government debt is to be remunerated in order to become a European Union debt. And, of course, it is understandable - from their standpoint - that the reaction of the other countries should bear on the debts of others, especially when these states, such as Germany or the Netherlands, spend hundreds of billions of euros on saving their own monopolistic groups, their own businesses, the individual states. Euro-Union solidarity thus proves to be the shortest joke. After all, solidarity exists neither within urban states, because we are not all together in today's crisis, nor today we are all together, so we will not be tomorrow. Any compromise reached at Eurogroup will be a 'broken compromise' between the various reactive projects that have a common denominator, who will fruit up the hundreds of billions that will be provided through the form of liquidity, state funding, state guarantees, nationalisations and and state participations in business groups. Business groups will benefit from this process with tools that are not new, we have lived and exploited all this in the past. And it appears from the evolution of things that not only did they not bring social prosperity, but instead broadened the social deadlocks, further widened the social gap that exists among the few who fruit the social wealth and the vast majority of the people. And all of this we have seen, even the restructuring of the state debt we have seen in 2012 and who paid it. So, then, the agony of all of you, of all the urban parties, is to save capitalist business groups, monopolies, packages of billions by the Government of New Democracy, more galantic than SYRIZA, to exploit - says - the pillow. Where does the money come from for the pillow? From the ESM with various prerequisites, which are the memorial commitments, as well as from the battle of the Greek people for the "blooded" primary surpluses. But the Change Movement also makes proposals. So we have the brave financing of business groups with the simultaneous abolition of any rights left to workers in the debris who left the memorials and the anti-government laws of the governments of the New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, to make workers even poorer and more consumable. And who will pay these billion-dollar packages is evident, all the people and the Greek people will pay them through the increase in government debt - because that is where they will lead - through the increase in their taxation, through the reduction of state spending, and on health issues, which are currently under discussion in the public health system. Instead of looking for differences in the individual effects of the different proposals put forward at the Eurogroup and which do not abrogate their reactionary and anti-grassroots character - because it is like looking for differences between Scylla and Harves - they have to organize their struggle for unleashing from the European Union, for unilateral deletion of the state debt and, of course, for socialisation of the concentrated means of production, for central scientific design and labour control. Yes, today what is embodied is socialism, in response to the deadlocks of the capitalist system, in the bohoo that is giving birth to this system, because with the coronary it turns out capitalism is naked. It destroys rather than creates and exploits all production capacities. After all, it is only the working class that is the producer of wealth in our country, but also worldwide. And that was very clear from the attitude of the health workers and their response. And this working class and our people must take power. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement now has the floor, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. The debate that took place at the Eurogroup meeting, I think, is typical. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of these intra-Union procedures it is an opportunity to realize which European Union and which Eurozone we belong to. I would like to say to the Secretary that our concern - and that would be, let me say, the point of my speech following Mr Staikoura's speech - is not about the money that will be advanced now in the Member States, or about the financial area that is going to be in the aftermath, since the measures that are now being taken are now excluded from the course of each economy of the Member States of the European Union and, above all, of the Eurozone. That's not our agony, then. Of course that's it. But our main concern is what will happen, how will it be and with what success will it be to relaunch the economies, and because we are talking about Greece at its National Representation, the relaunch of the Greek economy. The big bet is that. I do not know how large or wide the recession will be, but I have very worrying indicators. Ladies and gentlemen, I also said at our previous meeting that 20% of gross domestic product is produced by tourism. I, too, make a very foul point, because there are politicians with experience, such as Alekos Papadopoulos, but also very recent studies that are very high on tourism's contribution to the Gross Domestic Product, taking into account the professions that operate around tourism. I do not want to share extreme voices of statistical content. However, 20% -24% is. So this Gross Domestic Product will not be produced. I do not know how much it will be produced, I am not a prophet, but the shortcomings will be too great. And I catch other areas that produce wealth for the country, such as shipping - has not been affected? - the focus not included in tourism, from delivery to health stores as such. These, according to the Statistical Authority, are subject to four other professions in a single area of production of national wealth which gives a 21% share of Gross Domestic Product. What's going on? What's gonna happen? How will this entire national economy be reinitiated? How will the Gross Domestic Product be produced so that there will be revenues in the Treasury and in the Insurance Funds? That question mark is intrigued. And because there is no response on the part of the government, our criticism is perfectly reasonable. And I'm focusing on Mr. Theocharis. Does the Minister of Tourism have any? We heard that one was sworn to death! Good, it's a time of kindness because the pandemic is here. You're not telling me what this minister is doing? Shouldn't he give his own tone, which is the most landed tone actually, after managing the portfolio that provides him with data on a daily basis? Shouldn't he say how he thinks the next day? He doesn't talk, he just makes some statements to the right and left that he doesn't get caught by the radar of Greek politics. I imagine we all share such anguish. With my experience, I share a greater anxiety at least over some who haven't seen things from within. What happens when pandemic is, at least for the present phase, a past? Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a huge matter. The Greek people, with their disciplined will, which has been founded on the logic of science, have shown to the vast majority of the maturity that has arisen, of course, from what has been happening over the last ten years. And as the days will pass, ladies and gentlemen, we expect fewer complaints to be given to the daily life of specialising measures. As a Member of Parliament and a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, I am overwhelmed - my phone is flooded, because our offices are closed - by requests from citizens who ask me to put to Parliament the issues that everyday life shows in the context of the measures taken by the government. The first of this concerns - four times we have tabled this amendment - the following: Will you go with your Minister of Finance to classify nurses, the drivers of the EKA in unhealthy professions? A minister has not reacted! We said it first - we said it - SYRIZA said so, called it other parties - I think it all - and a minister has not said a word! To say 'no', to say that we think about it, to say 'yes'. Nothing! Not a word! And on Thursday last, I included what we as PASOK government had built, and I had done so, when under my office was chaos, and I had included nurses in unhealthy professions. However, this has been applied in the private sector. The public sector is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. From Mr. Papaconstantinou to Mr. Stakoura, including Mr. Tsakalotou, no reaction! Why? We all tell them how good they're doing their job. Good, but isn't the Greek state's response to this? Shouldn't he show character? Just words? Here the track is open. And military hospitals, public hospitals, nurses, guides to the EMCDDA. You need to see it. Our amendment, I think, is measured and you must accept it. Let us now see what is happening in practice, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the measures are concerned. I was surprised today, Minister, when I was informed that a public hospital receiving a EUR 600 aid will ultimately not receive EUR 600, but in practice EUR 600 is EUR 575 minus a tax of EUR 178! Whoa! You're very welcome. Is it possible to tax this aid by this amount? It's tragic! I've got a final divorce with populism. Never after 2009-2010 I caught myself slipping that way. I regard populists as rivals of the people. They're not his friends, they're his opponents. But here you cannot be praised for a policy of support and stifle it with tax measures. What kind of measure is that, if it's so? Call for a reply. Mr President, last week - I personally raised it - the question of the payment of uncovered cheques. The Minister, Mr Staikoras, had taken an amendment on that day and indeed resolved an issue that the government had announced as a measure, but in practice it was a mess with banks that did not understand how to implement it. There were also contradictory applications, but I have no time to mention them to you. The matter was resolved with the amendment. But another one was produced, this is the pandemic and the crisis it is causing. We have a chance not to pay back their check and, at the same time, we have branches that from this non-payment are at risk of collapse. The first such sector is transport, on which the feedingstuffs of Greek food families are based. If this breaks into your hands - because the transporters have obligations, from oil to toll, it will be serious. As I had spoken about the warning checks, and I was precise, I also raise this very big issue. The only solution, ladies and gentlemen, is the measure that the government has rightly announced - we will not be talking about nonsense - to provide business capital on the basis of the 2019 turnover, and indeed at a rate that is really serious. The measure is currently not applicable. So if you're going to apply to a bank to provide you with a loan in the form of a working capital for these needs, you won't get it. This process has not yet begun and is due to start at the end of April. There are businesses that can't stand it for this month and you need to see it to speed up these procedures. Mr President, there is too much more. It is not the end of the list of everyday issues caused by this appalling crisis caused by the pandemic. Have you wondered about the problems with cab drivers? The messages and e-mails I have received are shocking sometimes. I would therefore ask you to see the problems in practice and not the problems of the general visas of certain measures taken. I very much underline the attitude of Minister Chiara, who informed me of the fact that I had raised the subject of conscientiousness. It was the first timely question of 2020 on conspiracy to break marriage relations and he said he was doing it quickly. He had promised that in March he would have completed the relevant arrangement. But the pandemic crisis has come. I was informed today, therefore, because there are problems with banning the movement of divorced parents, that the committee was set up, but it cannot meet, and the timetable goes for June. Mr President, I am closing with two topics in particular, without a bonus of auctions, auctions, a philosophical spirit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u260	And that's all, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u261	I shall conclude, Mr President. There is an issue with insurance, an insurance issue, but Mr Brutsi has left. For those with a job employee relationship, the ELKA alert for March and February has not been posted, the alerts have not been posted. They want to pay some of them, and if they don't post up until the 10th of this month, they lose the 25% advantage. Here is a problem of day-to-day management still to be seen. Finally, I would like to say something very serious. I have legal experience in this matter. In 2017, Law 4669 was passed on the out-of-court restructuring mechanism for red loans. Look, those who want to apply for this can't. The mortgages and the pacifists are closed. In my first place here three weeks ago, I raised the matter. They remain closed as a result of a very good measure imposed. But they run deadlines. These deadlines have not been postponed. Even the number of applications for licences to be issued cannot be posted. They cannot be formulated and supplemented with the areas on the electronic platform that concern - I repeat - certain burdens on property. I think the Greek state should be placed here. I don't know, I don't remember, but I think the Minister of Finance - and not the Minister of Justice - had brought this to the SYRIZA government in 2017. Any Minister with the relevant legislative initiative must take it. Mr President, the measures, if they are good or bad, will not be judged at the stage of their announcement. They will be judged in their implementation phase. And the measures - and I close with them - are two kinds. Firstly, Mr President, these are the measures like those which concern the daily lives of Greeks and Greeks, now that we are talking about the strategy and concrete measures that are primarily related to the Eurogroup, which will meet again this afternoon on the next day. The next day won't be easy. We must all be prepared. And you are preparing not by underlining the difficulties, but by drawing up the plan to tackle this crisis as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, too. I will now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Marilissa Xinoyanakopoulou. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in this very great trial that our country is going through together with the whole world, what is of first value and priority is human life. That is why, from the very first moment on, we have been in solidarity with each other in defending human life with prevention measures to prevent the spread of this great pandemic. The crucial issue, however, today is not that we are confined there alone. We must stand in total as a people, as a country, as a society, as a European Union. We must be able in the next few years to deal with the very serious economic and social conditions, which will function multiplierly in many aspects of our lives, even in health and human life itself, as all scientists are now warning us - we are, of course, absent, but Parliament and the Government must be prepared - that we may see a next wave in the autumn. So in order to stand up, there are not enough fragmentary measures. It takes brave, complete measures today, such as the President of the SYRIZA presented two days ago to all aspects, namely measures to support the National Health System, above all the necessary permanent recruitment and not just the recruitment of contractors that we do not yet have, as Mr Voutsi said earlier, a clear picture of how many of these contractors have been hired. And, indeed, Mr Secretary-General, who is responsible for health matters, that is not something we, SYRIZA, or the Opposition. I invite you to read today's 'KATHMERINA', where it is precisely in the sense of the great crisis and the unfavourable prospect that we have before us on all these issues, to raise the issue - from its point of view - of the permanent more recruitment and the permanent support of the National Health System. The second issue is, of course, the major social consequences. There can be no similar initiatives and measures on the part of the government at this time. I would like to say and inform the House - obviously you are already aware - that the President of the SYRIZA and our group together have tabled an amendment on the protection of first residence. If that were imperative and we have put it all along, you can understand that now, within this framework that we are living in, pandemic, people who lose their jobs, who have reduced wages, it is now imperative and, Minister, it is now necessary to take the measures you need to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. We therefore propose that there should be an extension of the protection of first residence until 31 December and a suspension until then of the auctions. We put it a moment ago to the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura. Unfortunately, we didn't get a clear answer, we got half the bills. We're saying it's not time for half a billion. The world that listens to us is struggling. It is therefore an opportunity, Minister, that you are now representing the government, shortly after voting time, to finally take a definitely positive position, to say it is self-evident that the protection of the first residence is extended until the end of the year. At the same time, however, our rapporteur, Mr Tsipras, has made a detailed presentation of the necessary horizontal measures, of the forward and brave measures that the government needs to take today to support the real economy, in order to address a deep recession that comes before us, the padlocks, unemployment, the major disparities that will constantly be widened in the next period, if you do not take these measures now. We must therefore say there too that the measures that you have taken so far are highly fragmented. We were told by Mr Staikoras a number of attempts at Eurogroup. The question is how all this effort is reflected, with which measures have already been taken at European level to support the real economy. This must now be done bravely similar to that of other countries of the European Union. Mr. Stagioras mentioned a partial picture of the painting submitted by SYRIZA with the programme he presented. The reality is that, unfortunately, Greece is at the lowest in terms of the horizontal measures it has taken in relation to GDP. And because Mr Stakoras said about the recession, and even mentioned the very unfavourable prediction that he could reach from 5% to 10%, I would like to say that it is even more of a strengthening of our own argument, that if you wait for a recession and make such a prediction, it is now time to take measures, because re-starting will not be done immediately by pressing a button the next day, when we will gradually start going back home to a normality of the economy. Also, because the data have to be handled and told with their complete expression, Mr Stakoras said there was a positive trend by the end of the year, but he obviously forgot to mention that time closed in December 2019 with 1% growth, when it was 2.8% growth rate in July. Therefore, the signs of slowing down and recession had begun in our country, as in other European countries, much earlier than the pandemic crisis. We must not, therefore, let this 'V' be the one mentioned by Mr Stagioras. Now is the time to make these brave, forward-looking forecasts and measures in terms of the real economy, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the necessary liquidity. Mr Brutsis has left, but on the subject of work the picture, unfortunately, is not exactly the way he presented it. Although it is gone, because it is all recorded and historical and the moments that we live both in Europe and in our country, I would like to mention the precise information on the issues of unemployment and the comparisons it has made. In March 2019, the balance was positive by 44,000. The departures were a hundred and fifty - eight thousand seven hundred eighty - four, and the recruitments were two thousand. In March 2020, we have a negative balance of 41 000. And the fear is that the loss of jobs is much greater because the government and a measure, which is also a measure called into question in this process and in this crisis we are going through, anyone who is losing his job to go to the OAS not necessarily directly, as it had to do, but is able in the first instance to manuscripts. So, unfortunately, our fear is that unemployment is even greater than that presented by Mr Brutsi. Here too, we cannot hear from the government that the measure to suspend contracts of employment or to rotate jobs and to reduce wages by 50% for six months is a shield, as we are shown, to support wages and work. That's not true. That is the way you are opening the door to mass redundancies in the future, because the measures you have taken are only guaranteeing for the time of the crisis, that is, as long as these measures are being implemented at the moment. There is no guarantee that the next day the same workers will have a job or that there will be the same number of jobs. We call on this Step and say that the first thing that the government needs to do is horizontal measures for the real economy and substantial support, real wages and jobs support, which, as he said - and we welcome and welcome - Mr Stagioras give this battle at European level. There is the 'SURE' programme, there is the letter for the Eurobond. However, this inconsistencies cannot exist, that is to say, defend them in Europe and not apply them to Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we have very strong objections to many aspects of this legislative act, as did our rapporteur, Mr Tsipras. It is our democratic obligation - and the President of SYRIZA also stressed this, Alexis Tsipras - to come and criticise, to make proposals not for micro-political reasons, but with an absolute awareness of the responsibility, the social and collective context, to urge our country to really be able to come out of this crisis and stand up and stand up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute. That's what you asked me to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u267	It is a great omission on my part, through the large number of issues, to highlight the injustice that is being done, Minister. I'm sorry Mr. Brutsis isn't here, and I beg you to transfer it to him. A number of measures have been taken, such as the EUR 800 allowance for those employed in areas affected. For civil servants or for officials working in legal persons of the general government, because they are paid, it is foreseen that they are not. Inside them, however, there are both the travellers and the travellers. I am certainly referring to the Athens Concert Hall and perhaps Thessaloniki. Travellers and travellers have no work subject, have a fixed-term work relationship, break-up work, not continuous, i.e. stay on the ace. We have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, and we have tabled a motion for a resolution on it. I'm sorry about Mrs. Strainaki, because she's up to date. I would ask you very much to inform your colleague, Mr Brutsi, that his Secretary-General does not respond and because he sees it positive if he can respond. That's not an injustice! They're people who really don't have to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, too. We will close the circle of the Parliamentary Representatives with Mr Spilio Lebanon from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, thank you. I don't hide from you that's a good idea with the bucket, but I feel a little bit like a pope that puts him in such a glass! I understand that those under the Step are covered, but we are not the ones talking from you, who speak and are above the Step. So next time we feel more...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u270	You agreed once with Mr. Velopoulos! He said he felt like a Pope!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u271	Let us come back, after the cheerfulness we all need in the country, in the world, but here too in this Chamber because we have been talking unpleasant things in our debate since this morning. Our home country, with a weapon of faithful respect for the rules that are introduced by scientists and which all parties welcome, has been able to meet the threat to date satisfactorily. We grieve, of course, the dead, whose families I would like to be delighted with, from this point of view, on behalf of the New Democracy, but the battle seems to be slowly won. But we are winning, as the Prime Minister pointed out yesterday and something else, one more battle. We are gaining the social solidarity of the service of collective good and care for the weaker, the responsibility for respecting these measures, the restoration of confidence in the institutions, the commitment to the substantiated technological speech, which is a cross-party response to populism and the make news from wherever they come. In this context, I would once again like to point out that we are experiencing historic moments. The political reason for all of us demands attention, seriousness and responsibility. Some people have been lured into Parliament's Chamber today. I won't follow them. There has been an invasive debate on the Eurogroup today. The Minister of Finance informed the representatives of the people and answered the representatives of the political parties. As with Parliament's presence and information from the Prime Minister last week, it turns out today that Greece honours the democratic legacy of our parliamentary and parliamentary history. The House remains open today, as it should, during this modern war. Our democracy lives and breathes, in order to inspire confidence and give courage to the Greeks and Greeks who give a life struggle against pandemic, a struggle after ten years of effort for economic survival in the difficult years of monuments and cruel austerity. Mr. Stagioras gave the outline of Greece's positions and the reality of the Eurogroup's and thus modern Europe's balances. I will not tire you, repeating the positions of the Greek Government. Europe must today - yesterday, if possible - make decisions beyond taking economic support measures, open up the debate on the exploitation of technology, the creation of new legal frameworks for emergency situations, defend personal and working data, but also act creatively and imaginatively to address the new types of hybrid threats. Europe's attitude so far shows that it is taking steps properly, slowly and reluctantly. The liquidity announced by the European Central Bank in its new bond market programme, the lifting of the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, the allocation of funds through the European Investment Bank, the acceptance of Greek bonds as pledged, the Commission's 100 billion programme to support and safeguard jobs bear witness to the activation of many European arms. Is that enough? Is that enough $500 billion we talked to before? As the representative of the Greek Government responded, obviously not. We live historical moments and European leaders must lift up to the occasion, remember Winston Churchill's saying "never let a crisis go lost", follow the encouragement of the Italian Prime Minister and write the new page of the history of our European dream. Today more than ever, we need a more united, more solidarity and therefore a stronger Europe. We are now coming to our internal political stage. The government accepts a criticism - I think it is well-meaning - of the opposition to the package of measures it has taken. Civic Opposition calls for more money immediately and says forward. The answer, however, is simple: the coronary is not a 100-mile race. He's, unfortunately, a marathon. It requires strength and endurance, perseverance and patience. Measures are a function of time, are a function of the duration of the epidemic. We have to keep ammunition, win one - the battles, get the winners out, and at the end - I wish that is near - war. Today the ministers have reiterated our strategy in plenary. The government has unfolded a protection plan for the Greek economy of 6.8 billion only for the months of March and April. I will not go into the numbers, which have been sufficiently analysed. I will say, however, that there are still other programmes that the ministers will talk about when the time comes, if the crisis continues in the next few months, and of course the sectoral programmes for the individual sectors to which Mr Lover rightly referred, in shipping, tourism, primary production, transport and energy. In other words, it will do all that is necessary. We heard the Monday when we passed SYRIZA's financial proposals. These proposals have been vacant. They were costed at $26 billion. However, only the exemption from tax and insurance obligations for six months creates a 12 billion-dollar hole. We did not hear any response to this today or even yesterday in the interview of the former Prime Minister on a television channel. The multiplicity and impulse of counterpopulation can lead Greece to the slippery road and bring us back to a memorial. Mr Varoufakis came here today, breaking the embargo he had put into the way of the House during the crisis, just to atone for his past. Minutes were put on its existence. He called on the Greek Minister of Finance today to veto Eurogroup and to blow up the bank in the air if the Eurogroup does not decide the Eurogroup. The answer is clear. Reliable and creative Greece will fight today, as will constantly for solidarity, will fight for the right, but will never lead us to the lip of destruction, precisely where Mr Varoufakis and the government of SYRIZA led us in 2015. Mr Velopoulos, consistent with his practice, accused us of being allegedly politically improper about advertising the 11 million and postponing fees from the channels. I think he's breaking open doors again. Tomorrow, in the Greek Parliament, there will be the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, where the Minister responsible will come to say in detail how the contract is and where these expenses go and why it is at this speed. The second thing he's been lying to is that we're giving the channels the money. That can't be. We've answered that from this one before. These payments are simply postponed and will be offset by other payments over the next few years. He insulted us, because we do not monitor developments in Albania by transferring immigrants to our territory. On the contrary, the Ministry has been placed, we have made a statement about this and our position on the protection of our rights and their property is consistent. He also insulted us, for we do not want there to be loudspeakers outside the congregations. I mean, because it's important for next week. We want the churches to function, to watch it from our TVs, but we simply do not want, Mr. Velopole, to gather people out of the churches and to create the problem that would be created in there. We're trying to continue this race now that the weather's better and we're all going to want to pray. He also accused the government of doing all this to allegedly go to elections. If something needs to be said about this government is taking risks, taking strong measures, no matter what the political cost, making reforms, thinking just about the next generations. And just because he thinks about the next generations and does for the next generations, whenever the elections take place, he will win them. It also made a mistake, to which I must be placed. He identified modern Germany with the nazis. It is a dangerous simplification and a levelling-up to identifying the leadership of modern Germany with its nazi past. Greece is taking initiatives today, resisting pressure precisely to change Germany's opinion, to change Europe itself. But populism has only historically led to tragedies, and that is why all the political parties must be careful. The former President of the Parliament, which we honour, has caused us not to talk again about a deposit outflow in the first half of 2015. And he said that about 40 percent had gone to the Samara government. I would like, in order to keep the good tone and consistency of the political parties in this fight, not to get carried away. We cannot - no matter how much we want - and you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, rewrite it. You should be content with its interpretation. Whatever you did, you did in 2015. You've been judged for them and will be followed forever. SYRIZA's representative was placed wisely. But he made a review of doctors and nurses. The posts opened shall be renewed at all times. If I am not mistaken, two thousand tragedies have been hired and, as Mr Contozamanis has said, I imagine he will say it again - most of them and those who meet the needs of the National Health System will remain after the crisis. There are, of course, proposals for counter-population which are useful and correct. These governments are making use of them. That is why it is necessary to keep Parliament open and to hold discussions, as we are doing today. In other words, these discussions should be held and parliamentary scrutiny carried out. Legislative acts adopted, to come directly before the National Representation and to the Government to be accountable to it. Our democracy therefore also operates in this context some of the KINAL proposals, which we have listened with interest, could be included in the sectoral aid programmes which will be next and which will be analysed by the government in the next few days. We have also heard the anxiety of the representatives of KINAL about the real economy with all its branches, and we hope that we will be able to slowly put all these proposals, precisely in these sectoral programmes that the Minister for Finance has spoken about before. We also agree with SYRIZA and KINAL and all those who are concerned about the first residence. I think the position of the Minister of Finance was clear. As we gave the extension for four months last December, we are seeking to do the same and will take place in the next month than he told us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u274	You have the floor, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to reply to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. First of all, I would say that we had no doubt that he would not lift the glove and defend Germany. We were sure, Mr. Levane. We've brought you to Germany! But he did not speak or compare the Nazis with Germany. He said it was a Nazi mentality. So when you take the floor and politically want to hit the opponent, play with the right weapons and don't lie. He didn't compare modern Germany with the Nazis. He said mentality is such a thing, a life they only care about themselves. First of all, that. Secondly, with regard to the EUR 11 million, Mr Lebanese, which you shared on the channels, and which you are being played and lavished all day long, if we had not caused, but also the Civic Opposition, all that noise about this EUR 11 million scandal to play social messages in the middle of a pandemic - and they could have done so for free - there would have been no case at all tomorrow to discuss. So keep a little basket. Because of the noise we've raised, you're coming tomorrow to tell us where this money goes. So let it come tomorrow. Thirdly, as far as the loudspeakers are concerned, you should also understand that to a people who are locked up in their homes, and that is the people, Mr Levane, who keeps Greece standing, because you are managing a crisis. The Greek people, who are locked up in their homes, are dealing with the crisis and helping the curve fall. So this people, these citizens, sometimes also need psychological stimulus. And as a deep religious people and 99% Christian Orthodoxs, you could make them the concession to hear from the loudspeakers "as my sweet ear". And believe me, that with the same seriousness as faces the crisis and pandemic, the Greek people do not leave their homes, so they would not come out in this case. But, unfortunately, what reminds Greece and Orthodoxy, for some reason you fight it and I have no idea why. As far as the elections are concerned, Mr Levane, be a little patient, two to three months, a short psalm of each other!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much. The Minister, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief to finish the conversation. The House today endorses the fourth legislative act on the issues and actions of the Government to deal with the coronary and to minimise the consequences of this health crisis. I would like to stress once again that our priority is health for the whole population. The government and the state will do everything they can to ensure that no health service is missing from every citizen in this country and, of course, without any cost to our fellow citizens, free access to and provision of health services, without, of course, focusing on the economic consequences of this crisis, as the actions of the government are reflected in these legislative acts. I would like to ask once again for all the wings of this House, all the parties, because you are the representatives of the people to help all together in this effort. We've won a big fight so far. We have to get to the end. We all have to set an example, follow the experts' directives, decisions and be faithful to what the experts say to us, of course, in order to defeat this battle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, does the rapporteurs have a dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u280	We're done with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u281	I'm just asking you two minutes for the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u282	No, now I can't. The Minister spoke, we're done. You didn't raise your hand any further. You know I'm very relaxed in them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u283	We've lost an hour...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u284	No, please, you're embarrassing me. I have already heard Mr Voutsi's words. You know I'm too elastic, but the rest will be asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, only one proposal if I can. I believe, Mr President, that because there has been a great flexibility in the process today and no one has particularly protested because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u286	How, did Mr. Voutsis protest me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u287	Okay, but we do live unprecedented procedures. But because it is crucial that you give each rapporteur a minute to say a few words. Whoever wants to talk. Our rapporteur has put it that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u288	But let's take them in turn. The rapporteur first has the floor from New Democracy. Will you take the floor for a minute or will Mr. Lebanese from New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u289	In the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u290	You in the end. I'll go backwards. Mr. Villardo, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u291	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. We believe that following this debate, very important and serious issues have been heard. Of course, we are not happy with the fact that there has been no reply, even negative or even unconditionally, in relation to the amendment we have tabled, in order to integrate our health workers into the heavy and unhealthy professions and also to grant the allowance provided for by the health, security and defence bodies, the Armed Forces and civil protection. Mr President, we had to hear something. Unfortunately, we didn't hear. Now, what we want to say is that the next day will probably find neoliberalism with chopped wings, at least in the first phase and even long term. It's a one-way street, and we all have to understand it. One-way is the greatest interference by governments internationally in the regulation of the economy. It is a one-way street most of the welfare state that will include supporting all the weak. It is a one-way path to strengthen efforts for more effective public health. It is a one-way preparation for possible disasters. This fact has a sense of patriotic and social responsibility. The story speaks for itself and all that today is an institutional guarantee and a political guarantee to overcome the pandemic crisis is something that reminds us of. They remind us of the National Health System, remind us of the welfare state, remind us of social solidarity with the institutions. Something reminds us of who and when. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we continue to put political positions and proposals in this direction. Module required, sobriety required. But let this indictment also go away from the government and accept the well-founded, correct proposals of law or amendments to those we call heroes today. Heroes only in applause or words, he says nothing! Emracta, we need to do this. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, too. Mr. Tsipras from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as regards Article 3 of the bill, these other benefits should also apply to drivers of ambulances, as in Article 10, the liability allowance also applies to drivers of ambulances. It was an act that we would bring before 7 July, but it was planned for retrospectives from 2015 until today. On the substance of the matter now, you probably do not understand or are not interested - I do not want to believe - what is happening. Today's news: 'Other six million unemployed were added to the American unemployed.' A total of 15 million new unemployed in two weeks. Another package of 2.3 trillions has been added, apparently from the US Federal Bank to the already two trillion that existed so far. We are already over 20% of GDP. In my opinion, we are going to get a lot more than 30% of American GDP. A statement - again today - by the head of the IMF "a crisis which has not occurred since the 1930s, in which, for 2021, there will be only partial recovery". So no 'U-shape' said by Mr Stavros. Let's let him know, 'cause you're probably way behind. I'll just tell you. If you continue to face an economy in which there is already an economic pandemic of collapse, as things go internationally, when people get out of home good, it will starve. There will be thousands of people made redundant, thousands of closed businesses, thousands more poor people. There's no consensus on that if you've misunderstood it. Consensus exists in the restrictive measures, in certain necessary measures, because of the pandemic. You are not taking substantial measures to strengthen health and you are wondering whether two thousand will remain permanent. Much more, you don't take economic measures and lie. I'm sorry to say that. We have the smallest package from all over Europe. Do not compare only the budgets that are the ones. There are three categories of measures. Financial, deferral of taxes and contributions and loans - subsidies. We have 3.6% of us - I say 3.1%, but we will not spoil it there - and we have between 8.7% and 50% of GDP in the case of Germany.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u296	Finish, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u297	Other countries have a marathon in front of them. Don't say it again. But immediately we must avoid the cliff. If we hit the cliff on a marathon we're not going. And you need to take action now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, too. Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u299	Mr. President, SYRIZA is blaming us for liars. We can actually take that as an early April joke. But the early April passed. Apart from the measures taken, which have been known since March and which have been known to our fellow citizens, other provisions have been added which are very useful. I want to close today's debate, as I started and say it is an important day for Europe and for the country, obviously, from the developments in the Eurogroup. The rapporteur from the Civic Opposition invokes the example of the United States, which was first mentioned, with the bazuka of 2 trillion which threw up as a weapon to address the financial consequences of the pandemic. We want - and we all hope - Europe will work, respectively. In this context, I would like to say that the brave decisions will judge its future. We therefore hope that these decisions will be taken this evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u300	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is closed: "Start it from 20.3.20 B.C. "Assisting measures to address the consequences of the COVID -19 spread risk, support for society and entrepreneurship and ensure the smooth functioning of the market and public administration" (A'68) and other provisions." We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifteen articles, of three amendments, of the office article and of the entire bill. Make sure that you have voted for the principle, all the articles, amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u301	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u302	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, appear on the screens of the Chamber, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u303	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring it from 20.3.20 P.M.P. “Assisting measures to address the consequences of the risk of CVID -19 spreading, supporting society and entrepreneurship and ensuring the smooth functioning of the market and public administration” (A'68) and other provisions, a majority was accepted, in principle, of the articles, amendments and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u305	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-09-S1-commons.u306	With the consent of the House, 17.06. the sitting is closed.
