ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u2	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, while you have been on an international tour, in Spain our rural environment - farmers, farmers, regants, hunters - has had to be thrown out because your president does not take steps to keep their farms; they throw milk and sacrifice their animals. While he has dedicated himself in body and soul to travel, in Spain we have our fishing fleet tied up because its president does not act. And transporters are led to a limit situation that can cause shortages. Linears in supermarkets begin to be empty because their president does not approve decisions and solutions that allow fuel to be at reasonable prices. In short, we're talking about you asking them to pay for their work. There are six days left for the next 29th of March. You can tell me here and now: what steps are you going to take to build confidence among the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, of course, I share with you that we are living in an extraordinarily complex situation. This legislature is marked by a pandemic, which we have not yet overtaken. We are even managing the economic consequences of a natural phenomenon like a volcano on the island of La Palma or now a war... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u6	... in which in just over twenty-seven days there has been a never-seen refugee flow of four million people. And indeed, as you have rightly said, there are a number of economic consequences that need to be worked on both at European and Spanish level. What is the government doing, Your Honor? What the Government is doing is working through dialogue with the sectors. We are working at European level - I do not know why you blame us for that - so that, from a European point of view, we can give a common response to a common problem, which is the price of energy. We are also working at the Spanish level, we are doing it with your ladies and gentlemen, with all the parliamentary groups - today we are going to finish the round of contacts -. We are working with social partners, trade unions and entrepreneurs. We are also working with the transport sector. We have already reached an agreement on 21 December, Your Honor, and we will reach an agreement this week - I am convinced - with the transport sector to cushion many of the consequences of the rise in the price of petrol and diesel. And also, ladies and gentlemen, we are working with the autonomous communities. At the Conference of Presidents of the island of La Palma we reached an agreement to, among all, make a major plan to respond to the economic consequences of the war, which will be adopted on 29 March, as you have rightly indicated, in the Council of Ministers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are working, we are building a country agreement and we hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you too will join that agreement. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u7	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u8	Mr Sánchez, so far you have done nothing, and it is not an option to do anything. The Spaniards don't trust you anymore. We see how action is taken in countries in our environment, and instead here, in Spain, its president runs away, stops in the European Union to delay and is absolutely insensitive. Why did you summon us to the parliamentary groups? For the picture. You've lost track of what the reality of the street is. They simply call everyone who does not agree with you a right and, if anything, what has done has been to change Spain's foreign policy as delicate as it is the Sahara without bringing it to this Parliament and, as you know, betraying its own electoral programme. And it does so with a broken government and an absolute minority who learns from the Kingdom of Morocco about what's going on. Today you had to be here to appear and give explanations, but you despise this House and, with your pride, the Spanish. How are we going to trust you Spanish? To the many problems that we have in our country, indeed, the derivatives of the pandemic, of war, lack of supplies, inflation, desalination, joins one more: you yourself. Act now, react, take action, because Spain is in a state of collapse and you don't seem to know. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you have been on the same argument for two years, which can be summed up as there is a big problem here and a big solution. The great problem is called Pedro Sánchez and the great solution is Pablo Casado, but it turns out that two years later, Your Honor, to be with the baton that the only great solution for the country is Pablo Casado, you get rid of that only great solution and replace it with another great solution with 99% of the votes. Your Honor, we might think that maybe it wasn't such a good solution. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u12	Right now they are proposing a single great solution. Given what I saw and heard, Your Honor, the only thing I can say is that this new one great solution is just like the previous one. [[Rumors.-Applause.- Mr Ledesma Martín utters words that are not perceived.-A honourable Member: What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u13	Mr. Ledesma, I'm asking you to be quiet, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHO WILL PAY THE EFFECTS OF THIS WAR? [[File number 180/000843]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u14	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President. Who do you think is going to pay for the effects of this war, ultimately, of this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u16	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe that the first, refugees and refugees: 27 days of invasion, more than three and a half million refugees. For you to get an idea, in the two years of conflict in Syria there were one million displaced; today there are three and a half million displaced according to United Nations data. Firstly, what Spain is doing, precisely, is enabling three logistics reception centres in Barcelona, Madrid and Alicante, we will probably open a quarter, and trying to provide all the logistics, all the legal, social and health care, to the refugees who come to our country. Secondly, all that has to do with the economic consequences of the war. And here, Your Honor, what we are doing is talking to the social partners, talking to the affected sectors, talking also to their lordships and, logically, also talking and dialogue with the autonomous communities, as we did last Monday precisely at the sectoral conference. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am convinced that, as a result of the resolutions and conclusions that we reached at the European Council on 24 and 25 March, and also as a result of that dialogue with your parliamentary group and others, as well as with the autonomous communities, we will reach a good agreement so that, in fact, we can cushion the economic consequences of this war, protect the most vulnerable groups and distribute, from a social justice point of view, the economic burdens of the war among the population and among their businesses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u18	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u19	Mr. President, now you come when I tell you how bad everything is, how angry people are, and that these people are taking advantage of that rascal. The far right is coming, the wolf is coming! Now that comes, but aren't you tired? I'm talking about the whole bench on the left, questioning any left-wing lordship. Aren't you tired and tired of saying that the far right is coming? Are they not tired and tired of saying that someone like Abascal comes, that he has not worked in his life and that week by week he votes against the interests of the working class and that, instead, he goes through demonstrations of the working class? Aren't you tired? Do you know why this is happening? [[protests]] First, because on the left no one understands us. We can't explain ourselves. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u21	Second, because we're talking about issues that nobody cares about. It's hard, huh? It's hard. [[The Rumors Continue]] You know what people care about? Do you know what people understand? That the light has risen by 80% in the last year, that the butane has risen by 33% in the last year and that the gasoline has risen by 30% in the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, I too am tired and I am included. We have to stop military exclusively in morale and we have to start military in utility, also in utility. We have to get prices, we have to get prices... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u23	We must publicly control electricity and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, we must stop talking about taxes to the poor or to the poor; let us also talk about taxes to the rich, because the party of the rich will thus begin to suffer. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, the calm, the sand of the Sahara, still lasts, remains in Madrid. When you see it, remember the betrayal of the Saharan people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u24	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u25	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Rufián, I understand that you are addressing me, this is a control session for the government, not for the left-wing gentlemen. Anyway, I'll tell you a few things. First of all, on Western Sahara I will have the opportunity, next 30 of this month, to be able to appear and we will be able to talk about it long and extended. [[Rumors]] Secondly, I believe that his speech is precisely one that feeds the ultra-right, because he does not recognize what this Progressive Government is doing. You don't recognize him. [[Applauds]] For months, ladies and gentlemen, we have been lowering 60% of taxes, precisely from the price of light, so that consumers, especially the most vulnerable, are not as affected as others, more than 1 200000 households protected as a result of this government's commitment to a progressive coalition; we have lowered 80% tolls on electrically intensive consumers in the industry, thanks also to the commitment of this progressive government. And I say to you, Your Honor, that we will reach an agreement with the transport sector, we will reach an agreement with all the sectors affected by this increase that we have not caused but Putin. And finally, Your Honor, I hope to count on your support... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED GALVAN ERJON, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO FRONT THE ENERGY CRISIS DERIVED FROM WAR IN URANIA? [[File number 180/00842]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u27	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, how does the government intend to deal with the effects of the war crisis in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u29	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. In three respects, the first is the refugee crisis. We have moved to the set of European partners that Spain is going to set an example, which we are going to be an example of hosting these refugees. Secondly, at European level, what we are doing is trying to resolve a common problem from a common point of view, which is the rise in the price of gas and its coupling with the price of electricity, you have heard me on this long and long-standing issue. And thirdly, logically dialogue with all sectors to improve or have the best response plan to the economic consequences of the war. What we cannot criticize this government is, first of all, that it has done nothing during all these months; we have done a great deal, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, this Government cannot be criticized for dialogue in order to agree on the best of the plans. It cannot be said that if we do not dialogue we impose and if we dialogue we are late. No, ladies and gentlemen. We discussed, agreed and implemented policies on 29 March. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u31	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, although some are shouting at him, neither the pandemic nor the war is the responsibility of this Government; what is indeed the responsibility of this Government is to decide how the burdens and efforts resulting from the pandemic crisis and the crisis of war are distributed. I am going to say an obviousness, but it is an obviousness that we all know: in Spain the efforts are poorly distributed. The Spaniards watch every month at the end of the month with concern how the bill for light will arrive while some - the electric - are being lined up. When Mr. Feijoo was talking about those who were stuffing, he forgot to talk about the electrics. Only in the last year Naturg Y won 12 billion euros; Endesa, 19 billion euros and Iberdrola, 39 billion euros, while the Spaniards doubted if they could put the washing machine on Thursdays or had to wait on Saturdays. Mr Sánchez, we in this want to be honest and to speak clearly. When some groups need special aid, it is very important to say where the aid will come from and how it will be compensated. Here there are only two ways, or'these aids will come out of those who have more to contribute a little more - I have just quoted some who have a lot of room to tighten their belt -, or those aids will eventually come out of the cuts around the corner, which is the miraculous recipe of the right, to square the beads because they have one third of the Spaniards left. How come they won't have a third of the Spaniards if the other day Ayuso's spokesman laughed because he didn't see the poor? This is the economic miracle of the right. Faced with that, the Government cannot doubt, it cannot have doubts about priorities. We are convinced that we are at a time of bifurcation of the legislature. From now on, it will all depend on how the government answers the following question: who will pay for this crisis? We have preached in the desert for two years saying that health expenditure had to be shielded in the face of the pandemic; saying that minimum living income had to be reinforced for someone to pay for it; saying that resources had to be put into mental health, and we did not, but it took only a month of war, in which Spain did not even participate, to increase or increase military spending. The Government cannot be wrong about priorities because it has demonstrated - an increase in military spending - that when it is desired it can be done. Well, in this it is essential to have clear priorities. The government has to be at the side of the Spanish self-employed, workers and families, because that depends on their fate and that of all Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u33	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank you, Mr Errejón, for at least acknowledging that the war and, of course, the pandemic have nothing to do with this Government from the point of view of its cause. What this Government has done during these two years, in a very complex and very difficult context - I think we can all agree - is to give as fair a response as possible, based on social justice and territorial justice. We did so, for example, with the pandemic, with that social shield; with the deployment of ICO credits to small and medium-sized enterprises; with benefits to self-employed people precisely in the most difficult times of confinement. We also did so with the ERTE, which protected more than 3.5 million workers. They are all social advances that have also, in the end, been materialized in a labour reform agreed with the social partners. We will do the same, Your Honor, with the economic consequences of the war; a war that only wants one person, that does not want Ukraine, that does not want Europe and, of course, does not want Spain. We take care of the feeling of the citizenry, of his shambles, of his anguish. We are going to put in place all the mechanisms, but we must also recognise what we have done so far, Your Honor. We have reduced electricity prices by 60%; we have reduced tolls on the electrical industry by 80%; we have protected more than 1 200 000 households that are vulnerable to rising prices. We are also working at European level, Your Honor, to achieve a great deal of agreement on a common problem, which is that of rising gas prices, and we are going to reach an agreement with the transport sector, Your Honor. What is happening, Your Honor, is that we need to agree with everyone, with social actors, with autonomous communities and with parliamentary groups. We are called on to do so from the 29th of March. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHY HAVE THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT INCREASED DISABILITY BETWEEN THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/000846]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u35	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calviño, a recommendation: listen to Mr Rufián. Listen to Mr. Rufián when he says that the left has completely abandoned the workers, just as he has completely abandoned his independence ideology. Listen to me before I'm fired for ideological absenteeism, as he was fired from his only job for work absenteeism. [[Laughter and applause]] You have caused Europe's greatest job destruction, but you are still with the government of the twenty-two ministers and with the official positions intended to be the nanny of one of them. The Spaniards can't fill the deposit, but you continue with your brand-new official cars. The Spaniards don't have one of the aids, let alone the ones that need them most, but you allocate 335,000 euros to renew Mr Sánchez's summer palace. Thousands of SMEs, self-employed, merchants and hoteliers have stayed out of the distribution of European funds, but you give them to your IBEX friends who will then agree on their advice when they leave the government. You have broken equality between Spaniards, giving priority to those politicians who govern regions that are the least loyal to Spain and punishing those who have precisely been most loyal to Spain. And now, when the prices of energy, food and commodities are in the clouds, you are announcing new tax increases and giving 17 million euros to the unions, precisely, to say that now we have to lower them. Minister, for your government there are first and second Spaniards; among those second, the Spanish on foot, by the way, many of them voting for you. Minister, why are you and your entire government doing an economic policy that increases the inequality of the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u37	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u38	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I am very surprised that you dare to talk about inequality, for many reasons, but I will give you two. First, because the main lever to reduce inequality is obviously stable work, decent pay, reducing gender inequalities, supporting the most vulnerable families, promoting education and combating child poverty, and that is what this Government has been doing. And the second reason is because you have voted against all the proposals that have gone in that direction. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u39	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u40	Mrs Calviño, for your government, the only equality there is is that everyone who criticizes you is treated equally badly. So far in what you called ultra-right there was only VOX left, but it's now ultra-right everyone. If the transporters are on strike, the minister also calls them ultra-right; those who manifest themselves in the streets - livestock farmers, hunters, fishermen - all of them ultra-right; taxi drivers, traders, hoteliers, self-employed, gardeners, waiters, pharmacists, all who complain are ultra-right. I imagine the dependents of the overseas stores will be ultra-right for you. [[Laughter]] But do you know what the problem is? That you're deaf, that you're not listening to the street, minister, that people are having a really bad time out there. Madam Vice President, you are not knowing. Of course, vulnerable people who suffer the most are having a very bad time, but also middle and working classes, those who have been taxed, after denying it four times, are suffering a lot. We won't move forward, Minister, until we leave you behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u41	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u42	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you hide behind such comments, chascarrillos or slogans in order not to be clear with VOX's position with regard to all the projects that they have carried and that have a positive impact of reducing inequality: the labor reform, which is obviously already having a very positive impact not only in terms of affiliation, but of increasing indefinite recruitment - a stable job is the key to reducing inequality -; the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, which we have brought to 1000 euros and which improves the conditions justly of the young and the most vulnerable women; the vital minimum income, which fights against child poverty and supports families also in a more fragile position, as well as all gender equality measures. You have opposed all these measures, which are already having a positive impact. Let us talk about the reduction of unemployment, especially the reduction of youth unemployment; the improvement of the wage conditions of those who paid the lowest wages; the stability of employment, the reduction of contracts of less than one day, less than seven days, the most precarious contracts, which mainly affect young people in our country; the close to two hundred thousand places of vocational training, the reform of education and the promotion of the improvement and modernization of our education system; the reduction of the wage gap. All these are already positive results in terms of the protection of equality and, ultimately, of a response based on social justice to a situation as extraordinary and as harsh as that which we have experienced in these two years, first, with the pandemic, and now, with the economic and social consequences of the Putin war. Your Honor, the truth is that you have voted against everything that makes it possible to combat inequality, improve the living conditions of the Spaniards and, as much as you hide behind slogans and now do those who support the people, that is the raw reality. You do not support those measures that help the Spaniards, and this government is committed to social justice. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u43	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALDE EDMUND, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT CONCRETE ECONOMIC MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN GOING TO ADOPTE TO RELIEF THE UNBACKED PRICE TO WHICH THE SPAIN SHALL TAKE MESSES BETWEEN THE SPANISH? [[File number 180/000849]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u44	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u45	One more week, Mrs Calviño: what concrete measures will the Government take to alleviate the rise in open prices suffered by the Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u46	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u47	Thank you very much, President. Mr Bal, as you well know, because we also have an intense and constant dialogue with your parliamentary group, we are facing, after these two hard years of fighting the pandemic, a very important challenge arising from the economic and social impact of the Putin war. Although Spain is less exposed than others, it is clear that this conflict is already having an impact in terms of growth and, above all, in terms of inflation. We are working not only to deploy the measures that have already been agreed and that allowed us to stabilize the cost of electricity for Spanish families and companies last year, but also to have a coherent package of measures, a shock plan, a state plan that will enable us to tackle the causes, origins and consequences of this war, which is an attack not only from the point of view of security, but also an attack on our values and the very essence of Western democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u48	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u49	Well, similar to what you told me last week, the truth is that it's a little disappointing your inaccuracy. This causes the Spaniards to no longer believe in the Government of Spain, because we no longer have time or patience, and the only solution you offer to the Spaniards is to disqualify those who protest against the Government. Do not tell me that it takes time or consensus, because neither consensus nor time has taken you to change the traditional Spanish policy regarding Western Sahara. The President of the Government is leaving the Chamber, when today he would have to be here realizing why this shift in international politics, and not hide behind Mr Alvarez's back or wait for Morocco to inform us. Look, the government ministers apologize for the excuse, we saw it at the meeting with the transporters. Since last week, in Belgium they reduce taxes on electricity and fuels, give 200 euros for heating and extend the useful life of nuclear power 10 years; in France they lower 15 cents per litre of petrol for families and 35 cents for transporters; in Germany they promise fuel subsidies; in Italy they lower 25 cents of petrol and lower gas taxes; in Portugal they are giving checks already of 20 euros to buy fuel. And in Spain nothing, or worse than nothing, because the promised tax reduction of La Palma, no, that we are angry We can. Fighting inflation? Already after the European Council. Transporter solutions? We'll do the same next Friday. I mean, you're the government of coming back tomorrow. Besides, they seem to be laughing at us. The star measure of yesterday's Council of Ministers: the Spanish Space Agency. I tell you like the movie: Don ́t look up. Don't look up, we have the problems here, on earth. We have proposed a package of measures, we have told him to adjust the type of IRPF to inflation, we have told him to lower taxes on light and fuels, which constitute the energy table, as the countries in our environment do. Buy these measures because, of course, accomplices of their inaction, with our silence, will never find us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u50	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u51	Mr Bal, I do not disqualify anyone, because I understand very well the bleakness, sadness and uncertainty that Spanish citizens feel. After two years so hard, we are now facing an unprecedented situation, such as a war on European borders, and we have the utmost respect, the greatest empathy and the greatest commitment to responding in the most effective way to the concerns of Spanish citizens. But that means responding effectively, not with miraculous solutions, which, of course, do not solve the problems we are facing right now. Last year we reached the price of gas, extended the bonds for the most vulnerable families, lowered VAT and electricity taxes - which are already among the lowest in Europe and we have no room to reduce them - we strongly support the electro-intensive industry and are now working on a shock plan with a very clear priority objective: to stop the escalation, to lower electricity, gas and fuel prices. But this is not solved by lowering the IRPF - I think it is obvious - nor is it solved by lowering VAT, which the transporters themselves have told us does not solve their problems. Please, this is the time to be responsible, to act with moderation, with wisdom, with unity, to respond together to an unprecedented challenge facing our country and to try among all to articulate a shock plan that is truly effective: to reduce electricity prices, to protect the most vulnerable groups, to respond to the needs of the most affected sectors, to protect financial stability and to improve our situation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND MINISTER OF THE SECOND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHY DO YOU OFFEND TO BE SAYING THAT YOU HAVE SUBJECTED THE CLASS SIGNICATES TO BE CONVERSED IN THEIR PERSONAL PLATFORMS? [[File number 180/000847]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u53	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u54	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning. Why does it offend you to be told that you have bribed the class unions to become your personal platforms?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u55	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u56	Your Honor, I think you still have a problem with the Spanish Constitution and its Article 7, which defines trade unions and business associations as a central element in our democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u57	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u58	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, in order to have a problem with the Constitution, I recommend that you not miss the appearance that in a couple of hours I will make before the Constitutional Court to announce the appeal number 33 of VOX before the High Court, because in something affects you. [[Applauds]] In 1988, Nicolás Redondo, being secretary general of UGT, led a general strike against the socio-economic policy of the socialist government of Felipe González: eight million workers seconded it and that general strike paralyzed Spain. Today, with the price of electricity at 700 euros the megawatt/hour, with the price of gasoline at two euros per litre and with the price of the shopping basket 30% more expensive than just a year ago, the workers wonder where are the UGT class unions and Workers' Commissions, because the last time we saw them on the streets was precisely the 8th of January to demand the rapprochement and release of the prisoners etarras and today we will again see them on the streets of Catalonia to protest against the constitutional requirement of 25% Spanish education in this autonomous community. While in France over the past two years there have been up to nine general strikes, in Spain a Communist Labour Minister has tried to rob the people of their right to protest by bribed class unions with up to 87 million euros in the last decade; 56% increase since you, Lady Unemployed, are Communist Labour Minister, and just a few days ago the last 17 million euros. But hey, don't tell our communist labor minister that he bribed class unions to turn them into personal platforms because it offends us! Well, the last betrayal of these class unions we have seen on the occasion of the mobilization of the general strike called by our transporters, to which UGT and Workers' Commissions have again aligned themselves with the Government of Spain to demand that it be repressed harshly. First they said the strike was a bull, communist minister; then they said there were four; when the Spaniards saw the images of thousands of trucks protesting against the rise in prices, they already pulled the wild from the far right, the truckers were VOX and they were Putin, and the last justification for trying to delegitimize them is that they were trying to destabilize the government. Listen to me, members of the Government of Spain: They are not terrorists, they are carriers, and they have the absolute support of the Spanish. Go on! You've lost the streets. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u59	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u60	Your Honor, I'm going to give you an appointment: 'Workers' Commissions and UGT are enemies of Spain, we won't stop until we're done with them'. This appointment is from the chief of the chiringuito who set up Mr. Abascal. And look, Your Honor, I know very well who in our country put trade unions in jail, first because I know my country's history, and, secondly, because you talk about stealing, because my father also stole freedom from that dictatorship that put trade unionists in jail, that very dictatorship - which seems to you to emulate - that put so many men and so many women from Workers' Commissions, UGT and so many unions in prison in our country. But look, you only have one explanation for your allergy to unions, to some unions; allergy is given for a reason, Mrs Olona: because if we have strong unions in our country, obviously the work programme you defend will never be able to carry it out. [[Protests]] You were talking about the strike in the past. Indeed, Your Honor, today, by the way, the unions go out on the streets. But look, that election program that says it wants to reduce redundancy payments, that it wants to restrict the strike, that it wants a garbage contract for young people, that it wants to reduce public pensions, that it wants to end collective bargaining, with strong unions will never be able to carry it forward. But, look, there's a measure of your program that you can do, and it's that they say they want to end the public funding of political parties. They have a good opportunity to return the EUR 10 million each year received by VOX. They have the opportunity to do so and to stop deceiving the Spanish and the Spanish. [[Applauds]] - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHY DID YOU NOT KNOW HOW TO CONTAIN THE HIGH PRICE OF ENERGY IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/000852]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u61	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u62	How many truckers have to stop for not being able to pay for the diesel? How many farmers have to show up? How many shelves are empty in the supermarkets? How many have to be? How many Spaniards will have to turn off the heating or minimize electricity consumption? What has to happen, Mrs Ribera, in order to present an initiative, an immediate and effective proposal to reduce the energy bill in our country? They've been talking for 30 minutes and not a proposal, Mrs Ribera. He will tell me that they have lowered taxes, but prices are rising and their collection, that of his Government, is also rising. They make boxes. According to the AIReF, 3.5 billion since January only in VAT, energy, gas and light. Since January 2021 diesel has risen by 48%, petrol by 42% and electricity by 100%. A Spanish average family that paid 50 euros on the electricity bill now pays 100 euros. In February alone, light and gas have multiplied the price by four times compared to France and Germany. Your pride, Mrs Rivera, and your highly ideological energy policy prevent you from presenting solutions to the most important recent economic crisis in history. Tell us why you have not been able to contain the rise in energy prices in our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u63	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u64	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I note once again that the limited vision of the world, which is reduced to this seat space, prevents them from seeing that the energy crisis we are facing goes far beyond this Parliament and this country. In fact, it forms part of the core of the debate in Europe and at international level. This is the subject that we will be discussing this afternoon and tomorrow at the ministerial meeting and with the greats of the world of energy, including academics and companies, at the International Energy Agency in Paris. There are two major problems, security of supply and the availability of energy at reasonable prices, and it is not a matter that depends on Spain, because our country does not produce those raw materials that are behind the price increase, because moving one of the world's major producers is neither simple nor fast. And we are working on this, on reaching agreement at international level, at European level, and on doing so from the very beginning by taking measures and warning the former, which they have forgotten; they have forgotten because they also voted against all the measures that we have been taking since September and all the concerns that we have been transferring and negotiating in Brussels since September, never, by the way, ever with their help. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u65	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u66	Mrs Ribera, one example of your pride is to ignore our latest proposal to reduce the price of fuels. If you suspend the hydrocarbon tax and reduce the VAT to 4%, filling a gas tank will cost thirty-eight euros less and a diesel tank thirty-three euros less. Do you understand? Another example of its ultra ideology, for example, is what happened with the interconnection with France, which would increase our country's energy autonomy and enable European partners to help reduce dependence on Russian gas. After three years, President Sánchez has discovered that interconnection is positive, but you, ten days after Russia invaded Ukraine, responded to our parliamentary group that interconnection was not necessary, that is to say that it still does not understand, because it blinds them to their ideology, that more pipeline means cheaper gas and reduces our energy dependence and also gains influence in Europe because it makes it possible to reduce dependence on Russian gas. Madam Vice-President, introduce measures and, please, rectify your policy, because it leads us to the absolute collapse of both our economy and society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u67	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u68	Thank you very much. I told him before that, unfortunately, only with glasses for tired and close eyes, prevents him from seeing what the reality of the world is, including the weight that Spain is having in an extraordinarily complicated debate, in which Europe must address the two challenges simultaneously and in which, by the way, the Spanish proposals are present as part of the comprehensive solution. [[protests]] We cannot mark the price of gas, oil and coal in international markets, and lowering taxes alone does not solve the problem. We have to work on the regulatory side of markets both at national and European level, we have to take measures that are sustainable over time, we have to help ensure that the measures share the cost of doing so equitably, and we have to do so by paying particular attention to the vulnerable, which is precisely what we are doing. And in this context of a united response in Europe, the work in favour of a pooling of infrastructure and the coordination of measures and foreign policy on the joint purchase commitment will be some of the solutions discussed on Thursday and Friday, which will be present, depending on the outcome of the European Council... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u69	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - Mr Albert Butran PAHISSA, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Vice-President of the Commission for the ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: What measures will the Government adopt to address the consequences of the energy crisis? [[File number 180/000841]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u70	Question by Mr Albert Botran Pahissa, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u71	Minister, the increase in energy prices cannot be attributed solely to war, only to Putin, as he likes to do to his government - Mr President and Mrs Vice-President have done again today - it has to do with a structural crisis of the end of fossil fuels. So, beyond the urgent measures, which are necessary, what structural measures are being taken to deal with the energy crisis?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u72	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u73	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I thank you very much for the question, because you are right that this explosion, which leaves out of range any of the prices of the energy raw materials, has also some derivatives that are unfortunately competing at this time, and that is that there is an increase in the demand for gas, an acceleration of the processes of decarbonisation at the global level and an expectation of growth and economic prosperity in other parts of the world that are not Europe. Therefore, the best response is energy transition and decarbonisation package to 2030 accelerated, in line with electrification, the deployment of renewable energies and the search for maximum savings and efficiency, intelligent energy consumption, and it is also a great opportunity for an industrial deployment of innovation and employment not only in Europe, but, in particular, in our country and, in particular, if we do so in a coordinated and committed way, in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u74	Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u75	Minister, the emergency measures they have announced are strictly neoliberal, i.e., intervention in the public sphere while the private sector continues to reap benefits. For this reason, it does not intend to put an end to the marginalist energy market, nor does it intend to intervene in this market, for example, by setting a limit on megawatts/hours, a proposal which you yourself considered to be minimal last week - it was hardly questionable, he said -, nor does it intend to set a limit through taxes, for example, on the profits of large electricity companies or even to nationalise these companies, which again demonstrates the class power of IBEX vis-à-vis Spanish State society, and with regard to the energy crisis we are also seeing. Not by chance, former presidents, such as Mr González, Mr Aznar, Mr Montilla, more than twenty former ministers and other senior officials are or have been on the boards of directors of these companies, who have a huge responsibility in the energy crisis and yet continue to reap benefits. These are the urgent measures. And as far as strategic measures are concerned, we must foresee a reality that the International Energy Agency itself has been warning for years: by 2025 oil production will fall between 20 and 50 %, and oil and diesel are the blood of the economic system. Faced with this they will propose fleeing forward, as they are already hearing today, like going back to nuclear power and back to coal, but that is impossible, because not everything we do today with fossil energy can be electrified. Only a fair and planned decline - fair, that is, the one who has the most to decrease - can be the response to an energy crisis, which war has accentuated, but which already came from before and has to do with the limits of growth.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u76	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u77	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your comments I would like to spell out some of the things you have said. We were the first to warn of the complicated situation we were facing and to look for important, short-term solutions in Brussels, but also an advance in a substantive debate on how to make the functioning of the marginalist market evolve, and, in fact, it is part of the core of the proposals that we are still defending, how to prevent gas from contaminating the price of electricity. And together with that, we also take important steps in the private sphere, on which we will have to continue to work. It is obvious that a reasonable sharing of costs includes doing something that is now reflected by the Commission and the International Energy Agency in its recommendations, but which has only been implemented in our country for the time being, and it is reducing the excessive profits of companies as a result of the increase in the price of gas, on the one hand, by maintaining prices at pre-crisis levels and, secondly, by not incorporating in the revisions what would have been the most frequent, which are the prices associated with the spot market. In addition to this, we need to promote a tax system which, first of all, worked closely, most importantly, on electricity, but which today has to ask what other ways it can address the concern for the rest of energy consumption and the massive deployment of renewables, with regard to what, I would like to emphasise, both in terms of the replacement of the energy system in Catalonia and in terms of a much more efficient savings in energy consumption in Catalonia, we would greatly appreciate the contribution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA VALENTINA MARTINEZ RARO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT ARE THE GOVERNMENT'S NEXT STEPS TO SUPPORT URANIA? [[File number 180/000853]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u79	Questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. Question by María Valentina Martínez Ferro, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u80	Mr Albares, I have heard you say several times that you are Sánchez, and not you, who is responsible for foreign policy. So why are you, and not the President of the Government, the first to face up to this House to explain the biggest change in our foreign policy in forty-seven years of democracy? You know why? Because you've discovered that touring is the best escape from your responsibility. You have no respect for anything or anyone. They have managed to make Spain's foreign policy a sham, in which no one is represented: neither we nor half of his government nor his investiture partners nor even many of his party partners. A foreign policy discredited in the purest sanchist style: first they improvise, then they rectify, from there they pass to deception, they finish it all with a great lie and above them they carry the blame to another. So you denied that weapons will be sent to Ukraine, to deny yourself shortly afterwards. They claimed that Spanish troops would not be increased in NATO missions and soon thereafter increased. They promised to do everything in their power to support Ukraine, but they deny entry into the European Union. They proclaim the need for a state policy and we have to learn from a statement from the Moroccan Royal House and today from a leak that they have given a historical turn to a fundamental pillar of our foreign policy. Mr Albares, you have arrived to resolve the conflict in Morocco and all we know is that you have created us one, not less, with Algeria in full escalation of the price of gas. Tell us clearly: Did you or did you not warn Algeria in this historic turn of Spanish foreign policy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u81	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u82	Your Honor, this Government in Ukraine and the question of Sahara are at the same place, within the framework of the United Nations and defending international legality. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u83	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u84	In the case of Ukraine, all that this Government does has a single objective, all the measures it has taken - indeed, together with its partners in the European Union and its transatlantic allies - and is that the war of Vladimir Putin should end, that peace should return and that Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty should be respected. I also met on Monday for the fourth time with the personal envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations precisely to resolve the issue of Sahara, a conflict, Your Honor, which is now forty-six years long. It is too many years and, above all, Spain has been a spectator for too long, speaking internally, but without doing anything to support the special envoy. And that is what Spain wants to do, within the framework of the United Nations, in the Charter of the United Nations, with all that the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council say, also the last, Resolution 2602, in positions very similar to those of France and Germany, but behind the special envoy. Spain has to stop being a spectator and talk internally about the Sahara issue, and play internationally, together with the special envoy, to solve a question that lasts forty-six years, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u85	Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u86	Mr. Alvarez, you're not tired of lying. You have gone from supporting the decision of the parties within the framework of the United Nations to supporting the decision of one of the parties within the framework of the United Nations. I mean, even the subtlety of your diplomatic language doesn't allow you to camouflage the profound change that that means. This turn is neither state policy, because you have not counted on the PP, nor is it government policy, because you do not have its partners in Podemos, nor is it even party policy, because you do not have half of the PSOE with you; a turn that can have unpredictable consequences also in economic terms, in the midst of an uncertainty generated by the worst international crisis since the end of the Cold War. I once told her predecessor that she didn't stitch without a mess, but I was wrong: the one who doesn't stitch without a mess is Mr. Sánchez; that, inestimably, helped by you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u87	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u88	Your Honor, I understand that you have to oppose this, but really think of the Saharawi population in the camps, think of supporting the personal envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. [[Protests]] Spain's position is that of a mutually acceptable solution within the framework of the United Nations and in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. We must stop talking here within the Sahara issue and we must talk at the United Nations. Spain has been a spectator for many years, it has to be an actor, and that is clear. Today I saw the famous letter published in a media outlet. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u89	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u90	In the framework of the United Nations, mutually acceptable; you know that. Therefore, nothing new in Ukraine. And on the issue of Sahara, the United Nations framework. [[Applauds.-Protests]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT IS THE REASON FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO AMEND HIS POSITION ON THE OccidentAL SAHARA AGAINST THE MAJORITY CRITERIA OF THIS PARLIAMENTARY CAMERA? [[File number 180/000857]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u91	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u92	Good morning and thank you very much, President. Mr Albares, Spain, your Government, has changed its position on Western Sahara. It is true that you skillfully point out that this is a position within the framework of the United Nations, within the resolutions, and that you have met with Mr De Mistura, but the truth is that Spain, your Government, has abandoned that historic neutrality to explicitly support the Moroccan position. If that were not enough, this position had been taken unilaterally, without its government partners, with its investiture partners, without informing the opposition. In case it were little, society and the State have learned by a leak from the Moroccan Royal House of this change of position and today, five days later, by a leak you have made to the daily El País, which, as an exercise of transparency, is curious. You already know that from Euskal Herria Bildu we support the Saharan people and that it is they and they who freely decide their institutional future, and we also support them, we give them our solidarity after this despondency. But the question is why you have changed your position in this way and right now.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u93	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u94	Your Honor, I respect your opinion, such as that of the former Lordship and that of anyone else, but you say that I skillfully place the position of the Government of Spain within the framework of the United Nations. It cannot be conveniently placed, it is within the framework of the United Nations, it is in Resolution 2602, the last, which is the personal envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to resolve this conflict and which subsumes all of the above. You say there's a change of attitude. Look, Spain what I had before was an imposture, Spain was a spectator Spain on the issue of the Sahara was a spectator, to see what the others were doing. [[Protests]] Now Spain wants to be an actor. Besides, it's not a change of attitude. [[Protests]] President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero the same day I did my first press conference called me to ask myself, "Why is this riot...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u95	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u96	...if I, as President of the Government of Spain, received the autonomy plan, did I greet it and that was my position? And he's been saying it publicly these days. And the People's Party, with Mariano Rajoy at the front, in its minutes of the high-level meetings Spain-Morocco - you can see, I can send them - says'serious and credible efforts', the same language as today is criticized by the PP. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u97	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u98	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Albares, no acrid, but you're making Swedish. You, who often speak very clearly, on this question you have not answered me. There is a paradox that you are defending a position on behalf of the Government of Spain, on behalf of Spain, and it could be the case that the majority of this House was against it. Can you imagine the horn when you realize the recipients of it? I think this has been a political, communicative, diplomatic mishap, but I don't like it, because I have you for an intelligent person. Therefore, tell me what Morocco's commitment is, what they gain from this, because they have generated a triple crisis: a crisis with the Frente Polisario - I told you to abandon your position as an actor, which is true that you now have it, but as an actor of Moroccan distribution - a crisis with Algeria, with unpredictable consequences, and also an internal political crisis in the State, both with its government partners and with the partners of the investiture. Learn what you earn, what you have earned with this change of position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u99	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u100	Your Honor, as you know, I appear at my own request this afternoon and will speak long and hard about that. But it is not about Spain winning anything, it is about helping to unravel a conflict that lasts forty-six years and that, if we don't do something, it will last forty-six years longer. And it is a matter of that conflict being resolved - I say it once again; I have said it several times today - within the framework of the United Nations, within the Charter of the United Nations, in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and with a mutually acceptable and political solution. There must be Spain, with the special envoy, who has, by the way, been appointed for more or less four months, with whom I have met four times and who is travelling to the region on a plane of the Spanish Armed Forces. I believe that there, in unravelling a conflict of forty-six years, is any lordship of this House. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY DOES YOU NEVER REQUEST PUBLICLY FORGET THE VICTIMES OF TERRORISM AFTER YOU INSOLIDATE THE VICTIMES OF THE TERRORISM? [[File number 180/000848]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u101	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why do you refuse to apologize to the victims of terrorism after insulting them by accusing them of lying?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u103	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. The same question, I think, is the same answer. I will repeat this many times: the Government's policy with the victims of terrorism is a commitment to their dignity and to the example they have set for us. I therefore support partnerships with an increase in budget support and with an impetus to the construction of public memory, through, for example, the memorial centre and also the teaching units. And, of course, transparency, with all the resolutions being made in those matters that matter to them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u105	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, last week I gave you the opportunity to apologize to the victims of terrorism from here for insulting them by accusing them of lying, and you preferred to get involved in a fallacious and ridiculous speech to avoid the issue, as you have done again right now, in addition to being a completely useless speech, Minister. Because I told you once and I repeat: the difference between you and me is that I continue to defend the same principles that I have defended all my life and you who had passed them through the lining to remain a minister. In addition, Minister, stop being a hero, remembering that you were once threatened, like everyone else, because you yourself have recognized in many media that when you were no longer able to resist the pressure, you put dirt through it and came to Madrid. Here the only heroes, the real heroes, have been and are the victims and their families, those to whom you have insulted for saying how they feel. And, Minister, the victims have said, literally, that they feel deceived, betrayed, despised and abandoned by you, and have said, literally, that it is unbearable for them to see how ETA's criminal history is whitened. That is why they have announced that they will never meet again with you again, and that is why they will go out next Saturday to the street to tell this Government that everything is not right and to demand respect and justice for them. By the way, will you also accuse him of being troubled by the extreme right, as they have done with farmers, transporters and so many others? Minister, insulting the victims credit the total misappropriation of a minister of the interior politically... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u107	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u108	... Unworthy because it has preferred to become the servile shroud of Bildu's interests. And I tell you one thing, Minister, that's the synthesis of your failure and your shame and, therefore, you only have one alternative: ask forgiveness... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Gil. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Look, I'm going to call you for the first time something I've never told you before: you're indecent. I didn't come to Madrid for fear. Where did I come from? To the National Court, to fight in the front line, like other judges, against the terrorist organization ETA. [[Applauds]] And I'll tell you one thing, I didn't come to any chiringuito from the Basque Country to Madrid, I came to continue fighting against ETA at the National High Court, and my husband came to oppose without a job and gave him no chiringuito; he opposed and pulled the job here. [[Applauds]] We have professionalism. And I continued to fight against the terrorist organization ETA until the rule of law defeated it, the rule of law. What were you doing in the meantime? That's why I gave him the chance to apologize, I don't have to apologize. Didn't you get a chance to do it with those eight hundred transfers from the People's Party while ETA was killing? You were silent. Is that the brave one? You were brave? [[Applauds]] Look, I'm telling you by active and passive, you were the one who talked and went up to the doctrine of the Basque National Liberation Movement and the benefits to the ages, at that time you had to give them to him. This Government has not given any benefit to the ages, either before or now, but it is implementing prison legislation. I tell you again: you are using the victims of terrorism, a diverse and dignified group. You're not their spokesperson, don't stand up like one. You're the mouthpiece of the lie. You're the mouthpiece of hate. You're the mouthpiece of the insult. I tell you again that your indecency has reached levels that you may repeat next Wednesday. I came to Madrid and many of us fought against ETA, while you had been silent since 1984 in this House, and always insulting, always insulting. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government, stood up.-A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group speaks words that are not perceived.-A Member of the European Parliament: shameless!-The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u111	Quiet, please. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ANDRÉS LORITE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING TO GUARANTEE THE TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND GOODS TO THE PRICES OF FUELS? [[File number 180/000856]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u112	Question addressed to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Andrés Lorite Lorite, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u113	Minister, among transporters, drivers and truckers there are people of all ideologies, including socialist voters, although there are already quite fewer of them. Do you know why I know? Because I do listen to them, because we do talk to them, in front of you, that the only thing that has done has been to abandon them. [[rumors]] Disdain is what you have given them; and, by the way, something much worse, you have insulted them. Today I demand that you apologize publicly in this Chamber. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, it is indecent for you to call radical and violent those who sacrificed themselves so that we could eat during the confinement, those who are working at losses today, those who you make unfulfilled proposals one after another, those who only ask you to listen to them and that your arrogance and your pride make you not receive them. Madam Minister, last autumn from that rostrum I demanded measures to alleviate the price escalation of fuels - at that time it has risen by more than 30% -. Other European countries, such as Portugal and France, had already done so. We're in spring and you haven't done anything yet. But the worst is that the situation has increased and today fuels have increased by more than 40%. Take action now. Take action now. Lower your taxes. Give direct aid to the transport sector. And, when we say it now, we say it today, because the situation, Minister, is dramatic and every day that happens there are many left in the gutter. It is unacceptable, it is a frivolity on the part of you to delay decision-making until next 29 March. Mrs Sánchez, are you going to do something today or are you going to continue to let a key sector bleed out for the Spanish economy, such as transport? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u114	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u115	Thank you very much, President. Mr Lorite, we are fully aware of and sensitive to the situation of transporters and many other sectors in our country. An illegal invasion of Ukraine has been added to the rise in fuel, raw materials and energy prices. We have moved the citizens as a whole and also the transporters who are with them and who are going to work on a national plan to respond to the impact of the crisis. We're sensitive. Look, we have served on numerous occasions the National Road Transport Committee, so much so that we have reached historical agreements with them, agreements that had never been reached, agreements that were collected in a real decree-law that we validated with their vote in favor last week. The National Road Transport Committee tells us that transporters want to work and that this does not prevent them from legitimately reaffirming and expressing their demands. I also tell you that most carriers are working and that many of them were unable to work last week because violent incidents occurred: we observed how stones were thrown, how sticks were thrown, how trailers were burned, how wheels were pinned. That is not justified in any way. What we're doing is working with them. Last week we met and this week we are going to sit down again to resolve the implementation of the measures that benefit the sector. Look, we cannot talk here about measures that the transporters themselves have told us are not going to have effect. We have managed to agree with them on the monthly return of professional diesel fuel, to apply the general principles of the food chain law to the transport sector, and to publish the index of changes in fuel prices. All this is being achieved and has been ratified by the sector as historic agreements. We will not leave anyone in the gutter, because what differentiates us from you is that we do not move well in exaltation, we move well in dialogue, in agreement and in seeking solutions to the problems of citizenship. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u116	Mr. Lorite.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u117	Minister, it's urgent. It is in their hands to avoid the shortage of supplies, to avoid the bankruptcy of the primary sector, of our agriculture, of our livestock, of our fishing, and to avoid the bankruptcy of the transport sector. Be useful for once. Take measures of the vayase. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u118	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u119	Mr Lorite, with an unprecedented crisis in our country, raise your shoulder once and for all, raise your shoulder. Do not sow discord, confrontation... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u120	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAQÍN MARÍA GARCÍA DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ADOPTE TO GUARANTEE THE SUPPLY OF BASIC FOOD TO SPAIN? [[File number 180/000854]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u121	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mr Joaquín María García Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u122	Minister, I will remind you of some headlines these days: the fishing sector is going to bite with its tied fleet; the dairy industry is suspending its activity; farmers are warning that animals will die; the industry is talking about the state problem and the situation limit. You, who have all the powers in the fisheries, agriculture, livestock, agri-food industries, said in text - and I read -: I will use all the firmness necessary to restore the supply. What have you done so far and what are you going to do today? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u123	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u124	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, the Government is taking all the measures at its disposal to ensure the normal supply of all citizens with determination and firmness. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u125	Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u126	The first thing that is needed is for animals to be fed, for energy costs to be borne, for industries to collect milk on farms, for seafood to be transferred to fisheries, etc. But this is impossible without taking action today; today, not within a week; today. From the fisheries sector you have been told in writing that you are ineffective and ask them to act more effectively and more effectively. Of course, coordination is impossible with a government that here votes green or red on the same issue many of these weeks. While, in France, Italy, Portugal and other countries, the price of fuels is already falling, and here, all they do is look for culprits in every corner and, of course, the situation has been overwhelmed by lack of foresight and inaction, and they are blocked. To be the legislature of dialogue, it is very difficult for them to practice it. It has taken weeks to receive the fisheries sector; they will meet this afternoon after weeks. Nor do they want to sit with the representatives of the transporters, of those who are unemployed these days, or of the others, because they say that they are a minority and radical group and that they are blackmailing the country. But, of course, when what is at stake is to remain in power sitting on the blue bench, although they sit with other radical groups and minority groups, especially in Catalonia and the Basque Country, with whom they do sit, and know how to blackmail. [[a Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Well, today after listening to some of those speakers, they don't sit with them anymore. They gave everything to the Union's agreements. European, and you know better than the others that these agreements are going to be implemented in eight or twelve months, not next week. With their inaction they are getting rid of the shelves, and what is going to happen is that, when there are elections, the ballot boxes of those who swore not to leave anyone behind will be empty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u127	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr García Díez, this is a difficult time and I should also call you to responsibility. [[Rumors]] In the pandemic, under the worst conditions, the regular and normal supply of all citizens was ensured, and we are proud of that as a country, our primary sector and the whole food chain sector. Now we have war in Europe and you don't seem to know. We have the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Putin war, which has affected all markets, energy markets, cereals and oilseeds, and which is obviously breaking the supply chain very seriously. And in this country we have problems, of course, that we do; and this government is facing it, listening, dialogue and negotiating, and trying to respond to them in Brussels and Madrid. But, frankly, when we are trying to get maize imports, for example, so that the feed can be produced and our livestock can be provided, when I myself have managed to trigger the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund to support the fishermen and help them in all of this, I sincerely believe that, for their part, all this would deserve, not to my person, but to Spain, a more positive consideration. [[Applauds]] This is not the time to create conflicts, this is the time to give solutions, and I believe that the spirit, which is that of the Government, is to try to find solutions and support and, of course, to try to achieve them in every way, in the primary sector, with farmers and livestock and, of course, with fishermen, who have them very close, as you well know, and whom I love very much. In addition to all that, Your Honor, you could do something else, such as, for example, disallowing acts of violence and coercion that deprive us of the free movement of goods in our country. [[Applauds]] I haven't heard anything about it. Secondly, they could also have a more constructive position, so that, in fact, all citizens, as you want and I too, have a normal supply of food and drink. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF MR MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT REASONS IS THERE FOR NOT TO BE DEVELOPED, 43 YEARS AFTER THE APPROVAL OF THE SPANISH CONSTITUTION, A LAW RULES THE PROFESSIONAL SECRET IN THE EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION ON PERIODIC PROFESSIONAL PROFESSIONALS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000845]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u130	Questions to the Minister for Territorial Policy. Question by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u131	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, minister. You know that, despite the explicit constitutional recognition to keep in secret the identity of its sources by journalism and the mandate to an organic law that regulates it, this regulation is currently lacking, which causes shadows and uncertainties to persist and creates situations of great insecurity for professionals. That is why I ask you, Minister, what are the reasons for not having, forty-three years later, an organic law regulating freedom of information in relation to professional secrecy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u132	Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u133	Thank you, President. Your Honor, for us, as for you, freedom of expression and information is not only a constitutional right, but is part of the anchors of democracy in our country and, therefore, we understand that, without journalism, there is no democracy. UNESCO's latest report, in relation to global trends, said that journalism is a common good, and this is much more evident in a context like the one we are living in, in an international context in which many communication professionals are working on the ground in Ukraine following Russia's aggression, even putting their lives at risk. Therefore, yes, we share with you that all guarantees are necessary to give coverage to those who bring us true information in times like these. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u134	Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. When I was talking about the need for an organic law that dispels shadows and uncertainties, I didn't do it for an academicist. Their lack affects the formation of a free public opinion and also the interest of the profession when they are called as witnesses to reveal their sources or, worse still, when they are investigated, prosecuted or even convicted. There are quite a few cases: the trials for the filtering of the Rumasa judgement or for the publication of the papers of Bárcenas in the Gürtel case, which we will all remember; the prosecution for revealing data in connection with the master's degree of Cristina Cifuentes or for publishing summary information about the members of the Defence Committees of the Republic of Catalonia; more recently, the court order for registration in the headquarters of several whaler media, decommissioning computers and mobile phones in the investigation of the Cursach case, or the request to another means to identify the source that filtered the list of goods included in the Peace of Meirás, drawn up by technicians of National Heritage. Minister, the investigation into the circumstances surrounding the recent position on the Sahara also demands the vital role of the media and the protection of its sources as a public guardian for the formation of a free public opinion in a democratic society. That is why I ask you, Minister, when are you going to refer to the House a draft organic law on the professional secrecy of the journalistic profession? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u136	Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u137	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the interest of the Federation of Journalists' Associations of Spain, FAPE, and of the Forum of Journalists' Organizations in the development of the law of professional secrecy, because this has been made known to us by other parliamentary groups. This development is also supported by its code of ethics and also constitutionally protected in our country, and although not in that law which was provided for in the various jurisprudences of the Constitutional Court. In addition, there are some other rules that the Government is implementing, such as the Corruption Reporting Act, which will help strengthen information sources. The Criminal Prosecution Act will also exempt journalists from the obligation to declare when information from their sources must be preserved. But I agree with you that perhaps forty-three years later we would need to legislate on the matter. Of course, I am ready to listen to the federation of journalists and all of you, the parliamentary groups, which have something to say in terms of legislation, in order to move forward in these circumstances. Therefore, yes, if there is unity in this House, if there is parliamentary readiness for it to be carried out, if there is today - because it has not always been so around the profession - the need for this legislative development, the Government is prepared, as in so many other matters, to address and work on legislative development. But previously it would be good for us all to know the disposition of all groups. Without a doubt, ours is always to advance in democracy. As I told you, we understand that without journalism there is no democracy. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF THE BLACK TARNO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHY HAS THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS DECIDED AND AGENDA 2030 HER OPPOSITION TO INCREASE THE DEFENCE BUDGET? [[File number 180/000855]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u138	Question addressed to the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Ricardo Tarno Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u139	Thank you, Madam President. I'm giving it up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u140	Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u141	Thank you, President. Because I think Spain needs more vital minimum income, more checks help pay the bill for light, more doctors, more teachers and less tanks. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u142	Mrs. Tarno.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u143	Madam Minister, in recent weeks you have expressed yourself at least three times against the decisions of your Government. The first, by the decision to send offensive material to Ukraine, that is, weapons to try to stop the Russian invasion, which you described, with loyalty and respect, as error. But they remained in the Council of Ministers, without any change. The second is the announcement by the President of the Government to increase defence spending by up to 2%. This time you said: we have a difference with the PSOE; we are not in favour of an increase in the military budget. But they are still sitting there, endorsing this proposal of the Government to which they belong. Pure consistency. The third, for the change of position of the Government of Spain on the Sahara. You hear from the press and you say: we cannot share this proposal; it means abandoning the position of neutrality; any solution must pass through respect for the will of the Saharan people. And there they go, without dignity, but sitting in the minister's chair. They prefer to abandon one of their historic flags than to abandon the post. In a few months they will forget about the Sahara and the Saharawis. Mrs Belarra, do you know that the Council of Ministers is a collegiate body and that you are part of all these decisions? How many more humiliations are you going to consent to, Mrs. Belarus? Don't you have any principles left? Where's your election program? Is everything good for some ministries? Mr Iglesias Turrion said that Mr Sánchez was not to be trusted. It wasn't. It wasn't. Do you trust me, Mrs. Belarra? How long? For you, no war is over, the Saharan cause is over; you have nothing left. I'll tell you what you have left: some minister's portfolios, and nothing else. That's all. Mrs Belarra, if I may, I will recommend your next campaign slogan, the next election slogan: Unidad Podemos, forbidden to resign. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u144	Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u145	Thank you, President. Your Honor, it is my custom not to take advice from the People's Party, because I believe that neither this country nor its citizens nor, of course, my political party benefit. I believe that the People's Party is too comfortable in this context, in the discourse of war, in the discourse of increasing military spending, and you are doing something that I believe is not fair or consistent with the citizenship of our country, that is trying to make us swallow, again, economic and social policies that you have already implemented and that have been radically failed. I am aware that you would like to raise military spending - I would charm you - again to let our public health, our public education, attention to dependency or feminist policies, as you did in 2012. For, Your Honor, I will give you bad news: the work of this minister in this government is precisely to guarantee the opposite; and to guarantee the opposite I believe that is what the people of our country are waiting for at a time like this. I invite you to take a test. Whenever you want, you and I go to the neighborhood where I live, Vallecas, and we ask people if they prefer more doctors and doctors in the vacancies at the Vicente Soldevilla Health Centre or prefer more military spending as you propose. Let's see what people prefer. [[Applauds]] Spain is playing a lot in the next few weeks, I'm aware. That is why we are working within the government to build a new social shield that, for example, freezes rents, allows 300 euro help checks so that people can pay the bill for light and, above all - and most importantly - allows us to cut the unjustifiable and millionaire profits of electrics to lower the bill for light. I'm sure you'll prefer to talk about military spending. And why? Because you were for too long complicit in that scam, the electric market scam that makes the people of our country pay one of the most expensive bills of light. Change of mind... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u146	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u147	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the Government's plan for the economy in the face of the current geopolitical situation. For His defense, Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for a little silence and, if you want to have talks, I also ask you, please, to do so outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calviño, today you have seen in this control session that you have lost the pulse of real Spain. I sincerely believe that they do not know what is happening either in the streets or in the homes of the Spaniards and, I hope, they care very little. It bothers them that reality amends the fictional narrative that has been invented about what is happening in Spain. You still think we grew by 9.8% in 2021 and this year we are shot by 7%, as a few months ago you presented in your macroeconomic picture that you have not yet corrected a coma. Are you going to do it, Madam Vice President? Take advantage of this inquiry to correct and correct yourself, because your numbers don't even add up to hammering. Therefore, when farmers, livestock farmers, the hunting industry, transporters, taxi drivers or VTC are manifested, as has happened these days, their answer is to criminalise and insult them instead of recognizing that their demands respond to a real discomfort. Because today the Spaniards live much worse than in 2018 when they arrived at the government and, instead of reacting, live ensimism without presenting any initiative and trusting everything to the tours of a president who, like Fabricio in Waterloo, is lost on the battlefield without just allies and without knowing who is or where the enemy is. You yourself - who happens to be one of the Government's busiest - make the same mistakes in all crises. Do you remember when, on the occasion of the COVID crisis, you said that the economic impact would be transitory and insignificant? Well, last September you said that inflation at that time, just over 3%, was a temporary phenomenon and that it will be corrected at the end of the year. As a commentator of what is not going to happen there is no price. You have an unmatched record: in four years you haven't hit one of your predictions or one. Only Tezanos has a similar balance to his. In the background you think that things are solved by themselves, that without doing anything or inciting in the same policies and the same mistakes they have been repeating since 2018 would come forward. Well, what has happened is quite the opposite, and the Spanish can no longer do it. The country is on the verge of collapse and depletion and, if it seems to you that I exaggerate, pass through a supermarket and so you will not have to lie, as when asked about the rise of the receipt of the light and you came up with what you didn't know because you lived at your parents' house. Do you remember? For the Spaniards that we get up every morning the light that we light up costs us a hundred times more than a year ago; to put petrol to go to work, double; when we go to the supermarket, we see linear voids of essential products or that their price has risen by 30%; for the transporters it is more profitable to stop than to start the vehicle; the farmers face the dilemma of having to send their cattle to the slaughterhouse because the feed has been fired or has stopped them directly; the same happens to the cereal industry; a good part of the fishing fleet is tied; the SMEs and self-employed are suffocated because all the bill that depended on government regulation has been triggered. They have made it a luxury product for many families to survive, and for businesses and self-reliant, a miracle. That is the faithful image of the country which, in the ostrich hole where this Government has decided to put its head, is incapable of seeing. Not only do they do nothing, they commit themselves to doing what they fail to do. They committed a few weeks ago to the presidents of the autonomous communities in La Palma to lower taxes, but you said yesterday that lowering taxes does not solve any of the current problems. That is why in 2021 all tax figures rose: the IRPF, VAT, assets, companies, registration tax, social contributions, Google tax, Tobin tax and insurance premiums. Does that solve the problems of the Spanish, Mrs. Calviño? Moreover, both the Minister of Finance and Mrs Belarus present plans for massive tax increases to raise €35 billion more. Is that how the problems of the Spanish are solved, Mrs Calviño? There is no covenant that takes twenty-four hours to fail; they deceive and lie always, at all times and to everyone. They have been unable to end the gas interconnection project with France; it has been Sánchez's request to Macron and Von der Leyen and, at the same time, Mrs Rivera boasted that she was renouncing it. Who lied? Who's lying? Mr. Sánchez, Mrs. Ribera or both? I will not deny that we had never experienced such complex times before, but we have never suffered from a worse government; a government with an economic and foreign policy that goes hand in hand and that is erratic, improvised and chaotic. When we emerged from a financial crisis thanks to the policies and reforms of a PP government, you changed the policy and fired public spending. Next we have a pandemic, a war in eastern Europe with deep geopolitical and economic implications and, as a dot, an improvised shift in our neighbourhood policy with undoubted consequences in terms of energy supply. These are undoubtedly events that are more similar to biblical plagues than to the sweetness of living that Talleyrand longed for at a time also very convulsive in European history. Now the argumentary that they handle responsibility for the current economic situation to the war in Putin. If Putin is unreliable - which he is not -, why has his government decided since 2018 to increase Spain's dependence on Russian gas and move from zero to 10%? You have made us more vulnerable, your energy policies have brought us here. That is why, while in Spain inflation is almost 8%, in Portugal and in France it is half. Don't you realize, Mrs. Calviño, that the problem is you? And what about Algeria now? It is a country that has called for consultations with its ambassador because the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alvarez, lied and said that he had informed Algeria of his negotiation with Morocco. Then, already with the outgoing ambassador, he had to rectify. We have already lost gas interconnection with Algeria and have now organized the biggest crisis in decades. Ask me a question, Mrs Calviño: is our energy security more or less solid today than last Friday, when the Moroccan Royal House announced the change of the position of Spain on the Sahara issue? They have taken the wrong foreign policy decisions and, instead of taking advantage of the opportunities that the European Commission has opened with regard to energy that is compatible with our climate change commitments, they have been reducing them. In short, they have achieved the impossible: putting the supply of our main supplier at risk, reducing national energy sources and not being able to boost new ones. The result is known by any first-rate student in Economics: if supply is reduced and demand is maintained, the price rises. Instead of seeking to increase the supply, they now intend to operate on the price while they have not stopped increasing tax collection. It is you who have received benefits from the sky in the form of tax revenues, it is Sánchez who benefits most from this escalation at the cost of families' pockets, at the cost of transporters, at the cost of farmers, at the cost of the self-employed and at the cost of Spanish companies. With the bill of light we pay for the waste of his government mastodontics, which even leads them to double flights because Sánchez bothers to share aircraft with his ministers. Mrs. Calviño, stop looking for excuses and start looking for solutions. Lower taxes on electricity and hydrocarbons, deflate the IRPF rate, make reforms that increase our competitiveness, take advantage of the window of opportunity that the Commission has opened to boost nuclear energy... In short, Mrs. Calviño, get to rule. Dismiss what we all think, which is that what depends on you is either chaos or it goes wrong or directly doesn't work. What we Spaniards are living today are the consequences of their economic policies; and that is not what I say, all international studies say. I'll talk to you about one. The Economist published in December 2021 a report on the economic evolution of the twenty-three most developed nations during the pandemic. The result is that the Spanish economy has been the world's worst managed in recent years. Of the twenty-three countries analysed, Spain occupies the place twenty-three. In particular, the Spanish economy was the most depressed during the pandemic, 6.6%, while the rest of the major economies by the end of 2012 had recovered pre-pandemic GDP levels. Spanish households have suffered the most loss of income, 6.3%; that's what their propaganda calls a social shield and not leaving anyone behind. Our listed companies were the ones that suffered the biggest fall in the markets, 7.2%; that may be for their Podemos partners, but not for the Spaniards. Spain was the third country of the analyzed where the investment fell the most, 6.5%. Spain has the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, heads the youth unemployment rate and is the second most unemployed European country for women. And what brought us here, Mrs. Calviño? Well, the Calvinian doctrine of economic policy. I will tell you what it is: the biggest increase in the OECD-wide fiscal pressure, the biggest regulatory chaos in the whole of the European Union, the largest increase in debt and deficit in the whole of the European Union - twice the average - and a structural deficit of more than 5%. You haven't even been able to start the COVID application that you presented to a drum and dish and that you have detected only 1% of the cases. It still does not sign the partnership agreement to receive European development funds and has promoted the slowest, most limited and discretionary policy of business support. Yes, Mrs Calviño, the economic collapse of 2020 and the escalated recovery of 2021 were not due to Putin's war, were due to his unforeseeability, not taking advantage of the funds, sectarianism and his clamorous mistakes. While tens of thousands of companies had to close, their support for SMEs and self-employed people was rachytic, the most rachytic in the European Union. And when the European Union has rolled with us with EUR 140 billion through the Next Generation funds, its management is being chaotic, slow and opaque, because of the PERTE needed for the growth and modernisation of our economy and for the supply of components of our industry there is nothing at all. More than a year ago they published the one about the car and have not yet been able to move a euro; and that is what ambitious business projects exist, like the one to be announced today. Despite you, the industry is moving. Mrs Calviño, it is disgusting the invasion of Ukraine and all that it entails, but you accumulate responsibilities to do something, not to make a commentator of reality. It was your government that took the most time to arm the Ukrainians and, while other countries - like Italy - have announced that they support their entry into the European Union, you continue to block it. There's no easy time coming. The European Central Bank will stop making massive purchases of debt with the intention that the rise in interest rates will contain inflation. The European Commission announced the return to tax rules. We do not know the consequences of the conflict in Ukraine, but the second cold war can be a mild term to qualify them and its policy has made our country one of the most vulnerable nations and will suffer the most consequences, as with COVID. The PP has offered its support to the Government to commit itself to the Ukraine crisis in full and we have demanded explanations of what they have offered Morocco and in exchange for what. This group has presented initiatives to deal with these difficult times. The government of Pedro Sánchez may be overwhelmed by the crisis, but surely the Spaniards can count on a People's Party prepared to govern. While you offer excuses, the People's Party offers proposals, answers and solutions. His Government was increasingly divided and weakened, when a strong, strong and united Government was needed most. The Spaniards can't wait any longer and you offer less every day. It's time for change. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u150	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan. The truth is that I am grateful to have the opportunity to explain in this Chamber the situation of the Spanish economy and also the components of that national plan to respond to the economic and social impact of the attack on Ukraine. The truth is that the only thing I share about what you have said is that citizens feel uncomfortable. We in the Government are very aware of this public unrest and understand it perfectly. We understand their uncertainty, their gloomyness and their pain in the face of the images we are seeing of war on Europe's borders, and we are working with the utmost dedication, with the utmost empathy, with dialogue and in an effective way, as we have done since the beginning of the pandemic - certainly without their support - to respond effectively and decisively to the challenges ahead, because the truth is that what we have seen today in this Chamber is the same maximum disloyalty with which they have been behaving since our country has faced this very difficult situation. I fully understand the Spanish citizens that, after two years of such a severe pandemic, they are now faced with a scenario of uncertainty, a scenario in which I frankly believe that we should all be working together and thinking about the general interest. Before I enter that response plan, I will refer briefly to the macroeconomic situation, because, of course, after those two years of response to the pandemic we are now facing the challenge of the economic and social impact of that aggression on Ukraine. Although Spain is less exposed than other European Union countries, it is clear that the war is already having a negative impact on growth and inflation. We need to be clear on this point, Your Honor: all agencies are planning a slowdown in economic growth, but without jeopardising the rapid recovery of activity and employment that is already under way and which is in fact consistent with the evolution of the labour market, which continues to be very positive in this first quarter of the year. In particular, we are seeing the positive impact of labour reform on the percentage of indefinite contracts and on the reduction of the most precarious contracts of very short duration. This, Your Honor, is very good news - I hope you share my opinion - because it confirms that the recovery is coming to all households, to all citizens, thanks to the creation of quality jobs. In this context, it is surprising that the rating agencies, which have drawn economic forecasts in recent days, expect our country to grow by around 5% during 2022. This is a message that has to give us confidence, beyond the dungeon and pain of the images of war that, of course, mark our days. In April, as every year, we will publish the revised macroeconomic framework which will serve as the basis for the stability programme to be forwarded to the European Commission for the preparation of the budgets for next year, which, as we have done in these two years marked by uncertainty, will follow the principle of prudence. Naturally, the Government's forecasts will incorporate - despite the uncertainty we are currently in - all the information available on the global economy, economic activity and prices, but will also reflect the strength of our country's economic foundations, the foundations of a recovery that is very different from that of previous crises. I hope you will also agree with me that the economic scenario would be very different if we had not given a strong, decisive and effective response to the pandemic in health, but also in economic and social terms since March 2020. All the measures taken since then - the public guarantees, the aid for solvency, the ERTE and the provision of self-employed - have made it possible to protect the productive fabric and have allowed us to have a rapid recovery that has nothing to do with the ten or twelve years that we have taken to get out of the financial crisis to which you referred in the inquiry. And there is no doubt that the very different European response has been key; indeed, a response in which President Sánchez has played a key role in maintaining financial stability and driving these measures that we have been implementing. In the short term I have already mentioned them, but also highlighted the European funds Next Generation EU. Undoubtedly, the recovery plan has already had a clear impact on expectations and private investment, on job creation and, above all, on the prospects for the future and on our ability to now face this new challenge that is coming to us. Before you go on to respond to the war, a point on the fiscal situation, because you also mentioned it. The evolution of tax revenues exceeded all expectations by 2021 without a rise in taxes. Let us make it clear: we have not raised taxes and increased collection by economic recovery. [[Applauds]] These days we will know the closing date of 2021, but everything points to that it will close with a deficit clearly below the government's objective, as well as the debt-to-GDP ratio has been below the government's forecast of 118.7% of GDP. That is to say, we have met the fiscal targets of deficit and debt reduction, we have resumed the path of fiscal consolidation on which we have been since we arrived at the Government and which was truncated, as in all countries, with the arrival of the pandemic. Your Honor, it is a responsible economic and fiscal policy that, frankly, you should be supporting. We are faced with the challenge of the economic impact of the war. All the forecasts of public and private bodies point to a continued growth of the European Union in a scenario of greater inflation and it is a time when Spain has a lower exposure than that of the rest of the countries because, Your Honor, we have a secure position in the supply of gas, a lower financial exposure and also a limited commercial exposure. In any case, what happens from now on will depend, as happened in March 2020, on the decisions we take and the actions we take. It is important to learn the lessons of history and avoid seemingly easy solutions that actually aggravate problems. The truth is that all economic history books agree that the decisions taken in response to the first oil shock in 1973 delayed the adjustment, worsening the impact on activity and inflation. Even the Moncloa Pacts, the measures were eminently compensatory and of demand. And since you have spoken of supply, demand and prices, no one escapes that a widespread tax reduction has just the opposite impact to which we have to pursue at this time. The truth is that we are facing a supply shock and we need quick and effective measures that contain the impact on the economy, while acting on supply at European and national level, opening the way in the medium term towards the strategic autonomy of our country in the energy field. It is clear that our country is particularly sensitive to the evolution of the gas market and that the priority must be to decouple the evolution of our electricity market from the rise of gas in international markets. Since last year we have been addressing measures to stabilise energy price developments, in particular to cushion the impact of rising prices on international markets on the monthly bill of citizens and businesses. All these measures - the peak of the evolution of gas prices, the reduction of charges on electricity markets, the reduction of VAT and excise duties on energy - have served in a first phase, but of course they are not enough in the face of the worsening situation. In this situation, the spirit of European cooperation has again been demonstrated. Unity, determination and solidarity are the three principles that are guiding the European response and, frankly, should also be the principles that will guide us at national level, acting with loyalty, unity, solidarity and determination to put an end to the rise in energy prices. In this context, very pending from the outcome of the European Council today and tomorrow, we are working on that national plan and we are doing so with the political groups, with the social actors, with the most affected sectors and with the autonomous communities in order to achieve eight objectives. The first is, of course, to lower the price of energy. There are many different options here, and we are still waiting for the European Union's margin for action. Secondly, to support businesses in the most affected sectors and the most vulnerable groups. We have already discussed the reduction of tolls for the electro-intensive industry. We are working intensively with road transport to give it effective solutions, which do not go through a fall in VAT or fuel taxes. We are going to return the diesel industry monthly and we are working on the rest of the measures in this sector. In the agri-food sector, the Minister for Agriculture has been able to increase CAP aid from the fisheries fund. We are also extending support measures to the most vulnerable groups and families. The third objective is to strengthen price stability. Here the social partners are working responsibly on a collective bargaining agreement that could be a key piece for an income pact that brings stability and trust to workers and businesses and avoids an inflationary spiral like the one we live in in the 1970s with measures inspired by the ideas of the People's Party at this time. Fourthly, ensure supplies. The Minister of Agriculture has also been strengthening supplies in the agri-food sector, which is the one most affected in this regard. Fifthly, to protect financial stability. It is essential to continue to maintain an environment of financial stability and, therefore, I would like to point out that within the national plan of response to the war, together with all measures to reduce prices and aid to the most affected sectors, the real decree-law of next week will take the possibility that the companies and the autonomous most affected by the current situation can extend the maturity of the loans with the endorsement of the ICO. In addition, we will launch a new line of ICO guarantees to ensure liquidity for the whole economy and we are working with the Banco de España to also extend the deadlines of deficiency. Sixthly, the deployment of the recovery plan needs to be accelerated. By the way, today's news that a giant factory is going to be established in Spain is essential for the deployment of the strategic project of the electric and connected vehicle and responds to the work that we have been doing for many months by the Government, to the intense work to launch a set of strategic projects that allow us to address the double digital and green transition with confidence. Energy efficiency must be boosted and cybersecurity strengthened. These are the eight objectives we have to pursue with that royal decree-law in which we are working with maximum loyalty and dialogue with all political and social actors. I believe that any citizen knows that we are facing a complex situation that is not resolved by miraculous solutions, but rather requires behaviour based on moderation, temperance, responsibility, loyalty and unity in order to identify among all effective measures that truly respond to the concerns and needs of the citizens, the self-employed, the businesses and the sectors most affected. This is where our government is. I hope I can count on your support when we bring that response plan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u151	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Calviño, take this house seriously. How can you say that it is a good thing that rating agencies put Spain's growth at 5% when you placed it at 7% just three months ago? Do you know what a correction of more than EUR 20 billion means? [[Applauds]] Stop fooling this House and the Spanish. They fix you 20 billion euros in three months, almost 10 billion euros a month, and you say everything's fine. Mrs. Calviño, you haven't raised taxes? All the tax figures and, moreover, promise to keep them up, in that they are consistent. Mrs Calviño, can you guarantee the supply of gas, as you have just said, after the serious diplomatic crisis we are having with Algeria? Can you guarantee it? They've already closed one of the gas ducts. There is one thing I do recognize that has been consistent in these four years: you have always said that lowering taxes is bad; at all times your recipe has been to shoot public spending. He did it when he arrived at the government in 2018, 20 billion euros, and cost him a letter from Mr Moscovici, remember? There has already been a warning from the European Union about its waste policy and its failure to comply with containment policies. It did so during the OVID crisis and it is now announced also during the crisis as a result of the war in Eastern Europe. That is consistent, to raise taxes and waste. He has done so always and at all times and, moreover, insists that he will repeat it. Mrs Calviño, the same policies are going to have the same results. If we have behaved worse as a country during the COVID crisis, if Spain has been the country in which the economy has sunk the most and later recovered, the same policies will have the same consequences, the same effects. Its measures have triggered the energy cost. Whether the cost of energy in Spain is much higher than in France or Portugal is not due to the Putin war, it is the consequence of its measures, the consequence of its prejudices. That's the reality. Mrs Calviño, you have not answered any of the questions, you have not corrected any of the data, you have been unable to justify why in the face of the different crises the Spanish economy has behaved worse than the rest of the economies in our environment. The rise in prices is caused by you, just like the economic fall. Why is there a lack of supply in Spain at the linear level? Why is the fishing sector suffering in Spain? Why in Spain do they have the rural sector on the street? Why in Spain do they have the street transport sector? Why does that not happen in the rest of Europe? It is his Government; it is the policies, the prejudices of his Government that have caused this situation. [[Applauds]] You have to be aware of that, won't you do anything? People are suffocated, they ask for measures and their government president has been unable to say anything. You have come to this question and have been unable to announce a single measure to alleviate the situation of the Spaniards. You're not gonna do anything? Your Honor, I demand that you rectify. Today in Spain there is more poverty, more inequality and more uncertainty. Why don't they do like France, Italy or the rest of the European countries? The rest of the European countries dropped taxes during COMED and fell less and have recovered before; the rest of the European countries are lowering taxes today, all of them, to hydrocarbons, to families... You're the only ones who raise taxes, you're the only ones who say they're going to collect more. Don't you realize that it is you who are going in the opposite direction to the rest of the world? That's why Spain's recovery is slower, that's why the fall is bigger and that's why we're getting worse. What's happening to us is not heaven's evil, it's its policies, that's what's affecting it. Putin's war affects the whole of Europe, but where prices rise the most is in Spain, don't you realize that? You speak of proposals, of securing the shoulder, but you, what have you presented to this group? You, what have you presented at the meetings? A blank paper, same as today. That's the problem, that you don't present anything, you don't have measures, you don't have solutions. He only has prejudices and an ideological recipe, which is waste, raise taxes and do nothing. And that's how it works. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u153	Thank you, Mr. Hispan. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u154	Thank you very much, President. Mr Hispan, I have four elements to answer the questions you raised in the inquiry. First of all, you have made many unfounded statements here, which always try to give that catastrophic view of the situation and catastrophic view of the prospects. At a time of so much uncertainty and so much concern for the population, I think it is very important to give them the figures that are being discussed at European level. Not for Spain, but for the European Union as a whole, growth forecasts for 2022 are between 2 and 3.5% on average; inflation forecasts are in the range of 5 to 7 % this year. I think it is very important to keep the figures in mind. We are talking about a solid recovery, strong economic growth, accompanied by inflation, yes. So, I think this is important to have the framework in which we are developing, a framework in which the forecasts are that Spain will grow more than the European average, will grow more than the rest of the countries in our environment, as all the publications of public and private bodies are confirming these days, which I believe are not suspicious from the point of view of their independence. I've already talked about the lowest exposure and the safe position in the gas supply. Secondly, let me emphasize that this Government has been the first to point out concern about the rise in gas prices last year. Now we know that Putin was already preparing his war and financing his war, that we have called for action by the European Union from the very beginning, and that we are also taking urgent measures that have been effective in stabilizing the bill of light for families and businesses. Apart from all those measures deployed to support citizens in the context of the pandemic, those more than three million jobs that have been protected, those more than one million self-employed who have had a benefit that had never existed in our country, not to mention the millions of companies that have been protected by these financial support measures, last year we put in place effective measures that have benefited some 1.2 million vulnerable families with this social electric bonus, we have lowered energy taxes by 60%, we have lowered the charges for the electro-intensive industry, we have also lowered the costs that we have been able to limit to ensure that electricity bill prices are stabilised for all Spanish citizens. I believe that all these measures should be put into practice, although, of course, they are not enough at the moment, and that is why we are deploying this response plan. I just end with this constant reference to prejudice - I have been very drawn to it - because our Government's economic policy for four years - as we have shown by the facts - is guided by three principles: fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms. They are data, facts, measures and actions, no prejudices, precisely they are measures that are allowing us to reduce unemployment, reduce youth unemployment, improve the conditions of recruitment of workers, raise wages - on this depends the reduction of inequality -, set in motion a minimum vital income that already protects 800,000 people, set in motion an entire safety net that guarantees that we can face the best conditions to all the challenges ahead, at this moment the challenges arising from the invasion of Ukraine. All these measures, in the end, respond coherently to the challenges, because what, of course, does not respond to all the challenges is a measure that serves just as well as what happens: Does the economy grow? Lower your taxes. Are we facing a pandemic? Lower your taxes. Russia invades Ukraine? Lower your taxes. Your Honor, it is clear to you that what you want is to cut off education, health and the welfare state. [[Applauds]] You, in the face of any problems - in the transport sector, the rise in the price of electricity, the attack on Russia, commercial tensions - have the miraculous solution: that balm of Fierarás that you, in fact, applied in the past and led us to a fiscal imbalance that we have had to fix since we arrived at the government. These are the miraculous solutions that the People's Party is proposing. [[Rumors]] I really hope that, when we bring the package of measures here next Tuesday and when we start having parliamentary debates, we can count on an attitude on the part of your party - which is said to be a state party and a government party in our country - that it is more responsible, that it is more empathetic, that it is more mature and that it is up to the circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO SATISFACTURE THE APPLICATIONS OF THE SPANISH TRANSPORTISTS. [[File number 172/000187]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u156	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government to meet the demands of Spanish carriers. For your defence, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, the VOX Parliamentary Group launches an urgent appeal to the Government - to the Minister of Transport in particular - and the question is quite simple: we want to know what you are going to do - it seems that the Minister has no interest in the transport sector - to solve the transport crisis in Spain, the transport crisis. The first question to be introduced is who the carriers are. In Spain there are around 200,000 trucks providing public freight services. Of these 200 000 trucks, 45 to 50 % are operated by self-employed persons; yes, by self-employed persons. While the government - your government, minister - locked up all the Spaniards during the VID - illegally, by the way, as the Constitutional Court has declared - these autonomous, these transporters continued to function and allowed all our supermarkets and all our pantry to be full, complete, and we had food while you had locked us up. Those are the transporters, these are them. [[Applauds]] And it is important to underline it, because at that time you applauded them. They applauded them, but then came the crisis of the Brexit, the passage through the Channel Tunnel and, there, our truckers were stuck; they were stuck by a diplomatic negligence of their Government precisely. And his government, to those whom he had previously applauded, left them at the stake, abandoned in the tunnel of the channel of La Mancha. Then - a few months later - the drunken Filomena arrived and, again, the negligence of his government caught Spain with low guard. Spain took the risk and glimpsed the risk of food shortages. There we have seen a first warning of what can happen if there is indeed a shortage. Well, those truckers, those transporters, again, as heroes, fought for Spain and in the worst weather conditions allowed our refrigerators and pantry to remain full. And you, again, stood idly by. They're the ones who gave the bosom do. And those truckers, those more than 100,000 self-employed, 200,000 trucks, suffer serious problems that do not come from today, are problems that come from far away and that have added to that cocktail machine that today we are seeing both the Socialist Party and the People's Party, because - do not forget - the problem of transport comes from far away. And he spoke of the question of security on roads and at rest points, a question due precisely to the insecurity of the citizen and the lack of funding of our forces and state security forces that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have been feeding for years. [[Applauds]] I am talking about the logistics platforms that operate in Spain by somehow taking away this profit margin from our trucks, logistic platforms that actually come from third countries, from abroad, in those countries operate with tax rules, with social norms different from those of Spain and benefit in the end from operating in those regimes and actually billing in Spain. And that system has been promoted by both the People's Party and the Socialist Party. I am, of course, talking about the system of module taxation and cooperatives, which again take part of that margin from our carriers and which have also promoted the People's Party and the Socialist Party; that tax system which obliges our transporters, Minister, to live more of that tax regime than they really do from their work. This very specific problem has been brewing for years, and you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have preferred to look away from the problem. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] I hear laughs on the socialist bench, it must be that the transport sector causes them hilariousness. [[Applauds]] Sadly, the current situation in the VOX Parliamentary Group is only causing sadness and concern. [[Protests]] Yes, don't protest; if you laugh, then don't protest. And the crayon of the cake, the price of the fuels, which have doubled their price in just a few months. This issue is also being fraught with from far away because it is an obvious consequence of what its climate policies were, of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, and today we see the consequences of all the problems that you have been avoiding for many years, today we see. And it is that the transport sector is tired and is not able to resist even one more day, because when the costs of the actual transport of a truck are around 1 euro per kilometre, the current market prices are around 70, 75 cents per kilometre, and this is the result of all the problems that I have been listing, problems that come from afar, that could have been solved one by one and that has not been done. Today we find the perfect storm, and when the sector goes out to protest in that perfect storm, the only excuse that the Minister of Transport and her Government find is that the truckers are fascists, that the truckers are from VOX, that Putin is very bad and that things are fatal, and from there they shrug their shoulders and look back on the other side. [[Applauds]] And in yesterday's speeches on this issue tangentially, representatives came out, among others, the representative of Podemos, a gentleman who comfortably summers in San Sebastián, hunts or goes to hunting farms in Burgos and Castile and then comes and tells us, looking into our eyes, that we have to make an effort for climate change. And the problem, Minister, is that those who are making this effort are precisely our truckers, our farmers and all those who are at the dawn of the gift of national sovereignty that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have made over the years, because they come from outside companies and sell agricultural products, livestock products, at half the price of the Spanish; they come from outside companies and provide logistics systems or services at half the price of the Spanish; they come from their climate standards and increase the price of fuels, which impacts on transport, impacts on agriculture, impacts on fisheries and impacts on all these sectors. [[Applauds]] And those who suffer the consequences of their energy, climate and sovereignty policies are precisely those who work for Spain, those who fight every day for Spain, those who work during the Filomena storm, who are stuck in the Channel Tunnel. Those are the shoulders that carry with their climate policies, so that then you comfortably sit in your banks, quietly in your homes and in your official cars, without knowing how much the price of light costs, without knowing what the price of fuel is, come and tell us, with seemingly serious and gloomy, that you have to make an effort for climate change, when the effort is doing it exactly the ones below. [[applause]] And that's what, Minister, can't continue to happen. That is why we tell them that Spain must regain its energy and food sovereignty as soon as possible. We must return to the maximum possible degree of control over resources that are essential for the survival of the Spaniards. [[Rumors.-Mr. Serrano Martínez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u158	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u159	I ask the Socialist Group, even if it does not like what I am saying, do not interrupt me while I speak, please. [[Applauds]] Because you are filled with democracy, but when you hear something you don't like quickly, you strike the opposite of a fascist, interrupt him, insult him and even throw stones at him. And that is what has to stop happening, because you have to look into the eyes of those who work for Spain and tell them that from now on the effort will be done by you, that it will not be the shoulders of the weak who will carry with their climate dogmas. [[Applauds]] That is why we repeat that Spain must return to the maximum degree of sovereignty possible. And you laugh and say: you want to go back to the autarchy. Obviously not. What we want is for the measures that are taken to be taken with common sense and for you to understand that our farmers, our transporters, our fishermen suffer and suffer the consequences of the decisions that you close in the offices. And that if in Spain 100,000 truckers go to rest for the decisions you make, it is they who will carry with that climate dogma and not you, who will continue to sit comfortably in their seats, who will continue to circulate in their official cars. [[Rumors]] Keep interrupting!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u160	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u161	In short, the successive governments of Spain have put the Spanish on their knees and at the dawn of the decisions of third countries, of third bodies to which they have not voted and to which they do not control. That is why we have to reverse this situation as soon as possible, because the Spaniards are suffering and their measures, or the measures they have implemented so far, are not working. That is why, Minister, we ask you, in a concrete and specific way, to tell us what you are going to do to improve the lives of the Spaniards. And not only on a temporary basis in the face of the current war and the invasion of Ukraine, but on a permanent basis, because this crisis is not something of today, Putin has not decided it, but it is something that has been brewing for years. So please tell us what measures they are going to take. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u162	Thank you, Mr. Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to start by reiterating, as I have done in all my previous speeches, that we are aware of the importance of a strategic sector for our country, such as road freight transport, and of the specific challenges it faces, both at national and European level, which are now compounded by the short-term aspects of the current situation that we all know. In this sense, we in the Ministry, as one of the main lines of action, have a firm commitment to address together with the actors involved the challenges of road transport, both structural and cyclical, to strengthen the sector. The transport sector, Mr Figaredo, is facing major challenges such as the increase in the price of fuels, raw materials, supply, which, I insist, has been aggravated by the Russian aggression against Ukraine. However, we already know that this is a great thing for your parliamentary group, because it is not up to the historical moment that Europe is experiencing. [[Rumors]] And, of course, a global crisis cannot be solved only with local recipes, and less with measures agreed with Le Pen, with Salvini or with Putin. [[Applauds]] The sum of the above has resulted in a series of mobilizations initially convened by the so-called platform for the defence of the national and international road freight transport sector. I would like to stress once again that the Ministry's dialogue with the road haulage sector is articulated through the National Road Transport Committee. This committee is composed of representatives of professional transport associations under a guarantee process based on the accredited representativeness of these associations. In short, the committee is the voice of the road freight transport sector, the representative of the whole sector, including from the autonomous to the small, medium and large enterprises, with representations obtained after a regulated and transparent process. Precisely, its composition has been renewed in the same year, without the platform for defending the transport calling for unemployment having obtained any representation. But, of course, we already know this from the democratic and guaranteed processes that you have left, that it sounds like Chinese and is very alien to you; you prefer the order and command and tone of other regimes. [[The Lord]] We, with our successes and our mistakes, will be able to see us at a table talking, talking and negotiating. With you this will be a little more difficult, because you are established in irresponsibility and in permanent anger. For this reason, because we are not like you, in the ministry we maintain continuous and stable contacts with the national committee, which is our interlocutor in the sector, and whose president has repeatedly proved contrary to the mobilizations called by the platform. With the national committee we reached in December an agreement of measures to improve the sustainability of the transport of goods by road, which in part materialized in the Royal Decree-Law 3/2022, which has been validated in this House last 17 March, last week, without any vote against; without any vote against, but with your abstention. That is to say, they are raised overnight in defenders of the transporters and abstain in the decree law that requires all transport contracts to include the price review clause for the variation of the price of the fuel or that prohibits the loading and unloading by the drivers. Does anyone understand that? I'll explain. You are never on the side of the weakest, on the side of the transporters, but only on the side of agitation. When you've seen agitation, you've seen your chance. Since the beginning of unemployment, we have held various meetings with the committee in which we have moved our commitment to speed up the measures included in the December agreement, as well as to analyse the new measures that could be included in the National Plan for the Response to the Impact of War. The Committee asked us to take steps to ensure that carriers wishing to do so could work without coercion and with the necessary protection. Therefore, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior also attended the first of these meetings, which transmitted their commitment to provide protection to transporters so that they could carry out their task. We respect, as it cannot be otherwise, the transporters who decide to stop; in fact, we know that the vast majority of mobilizations are peaceful and without political connotation, but we must also respect and, above all, protect those who decide to work so that they can do so, as well as that they provide and guarantee essential services. It would be good if you would also explain why you support that platform, that radical minority, and not the remaining 90% of the sector. For patriotism? Are you no longer asking to limit the right to strike so as not to harm the rights and freedoms of the rest of the citizens and ban pickets so that no one feels coerced, as you have claimed? It will be because you are patriots, yes, but disaster and destitution. [[Applauds]] Look, let's be serious. I want to extend myself especially to the claims made by the platform, because I want to make it clear that the vast majority are already reflected in the agreement of the committee last December and, in particular, in Royal Decree-Law 3/2022, which seems that you have not even read, neither the agreement nor the Royal Decree-Law. [[Applauds]] Among the measures claimed by the platform, which have been approved in the Royal Decree-Law, are the prohibition of cargo loading and unloading operations by drivers; the one-hour limitation of waiting times in the loading and unloading areas; the strengthening of the transport inspection, which will have more means to combat fraud, unfair competition and the defence of drivers' working conditions; the mandatory inclusion in all transport contracts of the price review clause by varying the price of fuel by applying the formula approved by the Administration; the legal provision for the establishment of a code of good business practices; the mandate of the Ministry to approve a standard of loading and unloading area in relation to the facilities and services available, both physical and digital, to promote the best conditions and endowments for the well-being of drivers and the best operation. As regards the fixing of minimum transport prices, the agreement with the committee last December envisaged a study which we are going to speed up, and we also committed ourselves last week to analysing the feasibility of applying in the road haulage sector the principles set out in the Food Chain Act in relation to its production costs. In addition, the agreement reached with the committee last December includes the Ministry's push for subsidies for the construction and adaptation of safe and serviced parking spaces available to drivers, with at least EUR 20 million. Therefore, their arguments have no basis. Read, Mr Figaredo, the December agreement, read Royal Decree-Law 3/2022, which was adopted with the abstention of your group. Of course, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has placed us in a particularly delicate situation in the case of the fixing of energy and electricity prices, and we need measures to be taken from the leadership, from the unity and strength with which we also need to respond from the European Union to this current challenge. Transport is particularly sensitive to these effects, as it is the activity that consumes the most final energy in Spain, followed by industry, and that is why we have transmitted to the sector represented in its committee the road map of the Government to deal with this crisis in the National Plan of Response to the Impact of the War, and more specifically in the measures envisaged for the road haulage sector. At the meeting held on 21 March, the Committee was announced that measures were to be implemented that entailed an effective reduction in the price of diesel for carriers. It has also been pointed out that these measures will not be fiscal in nature, since Spain applies minimum taxation to the professional transport sector and, therefore, this measure would not be effective and would not apply to the sector. We are also committed, starting with the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law to be adopted on 29 March, to follow a model similar to that which has been followed in France and other countries in our environment - as I told you - to improve the price of fuel. This measure will amount to around EUR 500 million for the sector and will also ensure that this measure is not neutralized and reaches the sector in the form of lower prices. We have also committed ourselves to advancing the monthly return of professional diesel, which is currently quarterly. Also, the weekly publication of the rate of change in the price of diesel fuel, which was also requested by the sector, has already begun. Finally, I also announce that I have just convened a new meeting with the transport sector tomorrow, with which the Executive is fully committed to responding to the difficulties they are facing. At this new meeting, we will address the solution in concrete and definite terms. We'll be as long as it takes, as long as it takes, until we reach an agreement, and I'm sure we'll get it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u165	Madam Minister, sadly, your answer is absolutely unsatisfactory. [[Laughter]] I asked what they were going to do and what you said was what they did, and you say that what they did is entirely satisfactory for the sector and that if the sector interprets it in another way, because they read the rule, because it seems to me that you do not know if you think they have not read it, that they do not know how to read it or that they have not interpreted it. His answer contains all the essential elements that the Socialist Party and Podemos answers contain by definition. You have spoken of Franco, you have spoken of Putin and, of course, you have spoken of the far right, the fascists and so on. [[Applauds]] And that's your answer, because it comes and it tells us: no, it's that you are more orderly and commanding, from other regimes, pointing to VOX. Madam Minister, it is you, your Government, who illegally locked up all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] It was his Government that violated the Constitution up to three times, with two illegal states of alarm and a closure of the illegal Congress, declared by the Constitutional Court. So, by order and command you are and you are for that which interests you. [[Applauds]] Because when you don't know what to do, what you announce are meetings, committees, talks, etc., and you believe that sharing kisses and hugs will solve the problem of transport in Spain. You come here and you tell us: no, it is that we close an agreement with the transport committee, which represents 90% of the carriers. Surrealist; either you lie or you lie to them, because the transport committee is supporting the ninth sector unemployment today. [[Applauds]] And if, supposedly, you have reached agreements with 90% of the sector, it must be that 10% of the sector is very strong, because it is paralysing and collapsing the large areas of Spain. [[Applauds]] So either lie to reality, or lie to you, but you don't explain the situation. I tell you that today precisely Fenadismer, Fetransa and Feintra, which are the three main platforms of the sector - all of which are part of the committee - have announced that they support and maintain the ninth day of unemployment. So either lie to them in their statements or lie to you when you come up to this rostrum. You say: we are perfectly conscious. No, Minister, you are absolutely unconscious and you do not know what situation you are bringing to the country. All of Spain can tremble to its foundations for this transport crisis that you have caused. And their hugs, understanding and understanding will not help solve problems until they take concrete action. [[Applauds]] Those concrete measures which you say you had agreed with the sector had been agreed upon in November, and you did not pass the royal decree-law in the Council of Ministers - you do not need a majority, it is the Council of Ministers - until March. In these measures - which you have included - there is indeed the indexation of contracts to fuel prices, but it is a three-month indexation. And if you had passed the royal decree when the agreement was adopted in November, it could have been satisfactory, but we are in a situation where fuel prices are rising day by day. On the same day there are increases in fuel prices and you come and tell our truckers that the price will be indicated at three months? I mean, do you have to put up with them for three months, with your pocket, the rising fuel prices that you PP and PSOE, with their climate policies, have caused, with the criminalization of hydrocarbons and CO2 emissions? [[applause]] With rules on CO2 emissions restrictions which have been increasing year by year since 1990, when the Commission adopted the first plan for reducing CO2 emissions, you, rather than establishing a secure and stable framework at every year, are increasing it every year, and you support it. That is precisely the problem of the sector, which you have installed in Spain in legal uncertainty, which offers hugs and understanding but does not establish any concrete measures, despite the fact that you are in the government and that you have the BOE. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u166	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Figaredo, I do not know whether you should have been in a different response to the inquiry or have listened to what you have been interested in; I am more content with that second opinion. I have told you very clearly and succinctly the content of all the agreements that we have reached with the carriers in this country and that they themselves - they themselves! - have described as historical; that they resolve a complex situation, derived and dragged for many years, and that - I insist - the carriers themselves have described as historical; that they contribute to giving dignity to the profession, to improving their working conditions, to ensuring them and to protecting them. Because we do, this government is on the side of those who work, it is always on the side of those below, of the weakest. You are only on the side of the powerful. You always act with the sole aim of destabilising, and not only in the transport sector, but in absolutely everyone. They ask to intervene the price of electricity while they vote against cutting off the extraordinary benefits of electricity companies. They speak of defending the countryside and oppose with their vows the law of the food chain, which prohibits farmers and farmers from selling at a loss. They say they support families and abstain from the minimum vital income vote, after calling it 'paguita'. They say they support pensioners and vote against the upgrading of pensions. They say they support workers and vote against ERTs or abstain from minimum wage increases. You stir up discontent, but always act on the side of the powerful and vote against the weakest. [[Applauds]] That's what you do, and you use populism, demagoguery, lying, Mr. Figaredo. They are the kings of hypocrisy and cynicism. The Government was firmly committed to the road freight sector and was aware of its difficulties. We meet, talk and dialogue; we seek and adopt solutions. Moreover, it is the committee itself that has claimed its legitimacy, it is the committee that is applauding these measures. I attended the other day, together with the chairman of the National Road Transport Committee, to ratify the agreement. Find out much better than who and how many represent Fenadismer, Fetransa and Feinsa. They represent the self-governing, the small self-governing, with whom this Government is also with, and those who are also going to implement measures that will really impact them. The Government will work to accelerate the implementation of all the measures agreed with the national committee last December and also those that we have maintained over the past few days. Let's work - I insist - whatever it takes. We're gonna meet as many hours as we need. Tomorrow, I insist, I have convened a meeting to be able to resolve and get out of this crisis, which, of course, worries us. We are sure that the measures we have taken will be useful. They are useful and will be effective for the transport sector, not only for the transport sector, but also for society as a whole, for citizenship and for the productive fabric. We are working all ministries to put forward a national plan to respond to the impact of the crisis. As always, you will criticize him, you will be the first to disqualify yourself, to disqualify this government, but it gives us the same thing: we will continue to work for the well-being of the citizenry. And I ask the people and I ask the transporters not to be carried away by their insulting tone, by the exaltation, by the agitation to which you want to subject this country. We are here to ensure that this is not the case. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH ON THE ELIMINATION OF THE OBLIGATION OF THE USE OF INLAND MASKS. [[File number 172/000188]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u169	Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Health, on the elimination of the compulsory use of masks in previous years. For your defense, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u170	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. The prevalence of fact propaganda is common throughout history. From Cyrus the Great to the Protocols of the Sages of Zion, from The Armored Potemkin to The triumph of will, propaganda has worked to create lies, basically what some today call the story. With the arrival of democracy and its immediate daughter, the press, propaganda spent a few complicated years imposing their stories on the truth. But today, with the arrival of social networks, the rise of various types of populism to the left and right and the assumption of their methods by nationalism, propaganda and stories have gained strength. In a world where it is difficult to expose a more complicated idea than a tweet or where attention devoted to a topic has waned alarmingly, the teachers of the story can make their August. In a political class where childishness and postmodernism have taken hold, we have entered an escalation that can have serious consequences. In addition to the risk to our system of rights and freedoms, which is constant and against it, we must all work, from the opposition to the government, during a pandemic, the risk to health is added. The best way to deal with those who sow the world of doubts is to work always to strengthen the trust of the citizenry. The cemetery of propaganda and antiscience in this pandemic was undoubtedly scientific evidence, because a virus and the rules of its behavior do not obey accounts, because they neither read nor influence them. Therefore, it was vital that the Government always act with the best scientific evidence in hand, removing any propaganda or electoral temptation from health management. The Government had to build confidence in the citizenry, but unfortunately there had been bad times for the credibility of the Government. One of the worst was he 'we have overcome the virus', which the president of the government said in the equator of the worst moments of the pandemic; the eagerness to communicate something good was paid with tons of credibility. Then, government stickers on vaccines or, for example, the spiral of attribution of deaths to political opponents. This was one of the moments of greatest national shame; with almost 1,000 daily deaths, the political parties in this House, almost all, wanted to scratch something. We heard some say that he had died in Spain because Madrid was in Spain, others say that people died to the Government of Spain. I admit that I never heard it from Salvador Illa and I never heard it from you; they never entered this spiral, but they did speak for the parliamentary groups that support the Government and also for the opposition. You know - as Salvador Illa knows - where Citizens have been in this matter and in these circumstances and that we have never accused anyone of what, unfortunately, came from the hand of a pandemic. Then came another bad time for the Government's credibility, which was the so-called new normality, another communicative artifact, or the time to return smiles, because neither normality returned and smiles were for a short time. Because when the contagion increases in the second half of December, someone in the government decided it had to look like something was done. And I'm getting closer to the masks. To give an aesthetic handshake, on December 23, 2021 they announced the return of the obligatory mask on the outside. My parliamentary group then asked for reports with scientific evidence that this measure was useful for something, because, from what we knew, it was completely useless. Here is an important methodological issue, Minister. Anyone who wants to impose a restriction is the one who has to prove that the restriction works, it is not the restricted who have to prove the opposite. On 27 December, the Government, to the citizens' question - we asked them about the data on the imposition of the mask on the outside and its effect on the pandemic - told us that they did not have disaggregated data between external and internal infections. This is important. On February 1, they came to Congress and defended the validation of the royal decree that forced the masks on the outside. We opposed that February 1st. Three days later, 72 hours after defending in this rostrum the necessity and necessity of the mask on the outside said it was no longer mandatory. What changed in 72 hours? I tell you, the widespread response of the population against something they knew was based on nothing but the need for gestures. Sometimes the decisions of the Council of Ministers seem to be taken in a chamber of ministers. On 6 March, the President of the Government announced that the mask inside would cease to be mandatory very soon, given the epidemiological conditions to do so. Very soon. What's this for? What's the announcement of something that's going to happen in such an inconcrete way when we're talking about a restriction that has negative effects? On March 13 you yourself said that the mask inside would no longer be mandatory - I open quotes - 'as soon as I'm late' - I close quotes. But what is this? What's soon? What's late? What way to advertise things is this? Very soon, sooner rather than later... No, Minister, you have two alternatives: you can say that the mask inside is still mandatory for this fact, for this other fact and for this one, and if you can't prove that it generates more benefits than damages, what you have to do is remove the mandatory mask inside. You have the burden of proof for your maintenance, because you also told us yesterday that quarantines are over, that widespread tests are also going to stop - diagnostic tests - and that COVID is going to resemble the treatment of a flu. It was said yesterday by press release from the Ministry of Health. But if they can't discern between the contagions inside and outside, it's unlikely they can prove anything. The key is not to avoid some contagion, which, as we know, is much less after vaccination campaigns, but - above all and most importantly - we know that, thanks to the vaccine, again, the disease is mild in most people. You have already adapted the sanitary protocols to this lightness yesterday - with a date of March 24th. It makes no sense for them not to remove the restrictions that are based on this very foundation. I believe that if the Spaniards wear the mandatory mask inside today it is because the government is waiting for an opportune moment to announce the elimination of the ban, and we will know that. I'll give you some examples. Denmark removed all restrictions on 1 February, with vaccination rates lower than ours, and there have been no harmful effects. In Norway, too, with less vaccinated than Denmark even. And I assure you that both Norway and Denmark make more life inside than the Spanish. United Kingdom, 27 January. France, on 11 February, relaxed the use of masks inside. Sweden never made it mandatory. Finland recommended it only. In the United States, those States that made it compulsory are removing it. Madam Minister, one of the best ways we have to demonstrate the effectiveness of vaccines is to make a joint campaign that says: Spaniards, as we know about the effectiveness of vaccines, we can remove the mask inside. One thing is a consequence of the other. It would be one of the greatest favors we could do to communicate the enormous effectiveness of vaccines. In addition, you are already transferring to doctors the individualized decision for serious cases of COVID and vulnerable patients for quarantines and tests. Can't it be a doctor who individually advises - as he does in all these processes - a person to wear the mask? By the way, anyone who wants to keep wearing the mask, if they feel safer or more comfortable, can keep doing it. The removal of the mask inside would also have positive effects on the economy: in gyms, in the hotel shop, in the schools... yes, minister, also in the schools. But, for example, there is a situation that we have experienced all the people in this House and almost all the people who are going to listen to my words: how do they explain to someone who is sitting in a restaurant, eating and drinking without a mask, that when going to the bathroom you have to put on the mask, make use of the bathroom with a mask, go back to the seat, take off the mask and keep eating and drinking? What is this? That's magic. Don't they contaminate the virus on that path? It doesn't make any sense, Minister. Let us rationalize all this, make the measures more reliable and understandable. I also want to talk about mental health. The feeling of the endless pandemic has wreaked havoc on the mental health of the population, you know, and we have dealt with this issue both here and in the Health Commission many times. Removing the mask from the usual landscape will have a positive effect, and I want to stop at the mask and the children. In the smaller ones it generates many more problems than benefits. It is not normal that two-year-olds have not seen most of the people in their environment, only their parents. It is not normal that they have only seen for two years half their face, at an age when they are learning to interpret gestures, at an age when imitation is fundamental to learning. We have said many times that restrictions must be the last resort, Minister. The compulsoryness of the mask inside is not the last resort today; the only criterion that maintains it today is political opportunity, not scientific opportunity. I know you've been worried about the boom of conspiracy theories and anti-vacuum movements, and you've fought them relatively effectively, and I recognize that. I have asked you many times here and you have faced them, and there have been effective campaigns. But never forget that science and science are the two black beasts of the dark parties. See how those who timidly wanted to lead the anti-vacuum movements did not dare in Spain to lead them. In fact, most of them were vaccinated. Look how those who played the control of the population through the vaccine returned to their burrow to cover with a blanket the costume of sorcerers. Madam Minister, for all that I have said, because you are more reliable, the vaccine has proved to be much more effective than other issues that the government makes, such as generating or inventing language. Science is much more effective than propaganda. For all the above, now remove the mandatory mask inside. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u171	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Díaz, two years have passed since the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 pandemic, the biggest health crisis in the last hundred years. It has been two intense years, two tremendously difficult years, that have undoubtedly impacted on the lives of all of us and also on the health systems of the whole world, but it is also true that during this time of difficulty science has managed to pave the way for doubling a virus that has changed our lives. As I have stated on different occasions from this rostrum, we enter this bloody pandemic without navigation letters, and it is true that throughout this time we have been using different measures to give at every moment a strategic response in the fight against COVID, and all this according to the epidemiological situation at every moment. From the outset, the experts have done their best and allowed the health authorities to take action in the light of the situation. One of these most identifiable, most recognizable measures has been the use of masks; an element of protection, as expressed by various national and international bodies in the field of health. They will remember that in our country it was approved mandatory, first by a ministerial order in the year 2020 and subsequently in Law 2/2021, through that law of urgent preventive measures. Since then, the use of it has been mandatory, I insist, as a protective element in each of the different waves we have been going through, and we have been regulating its use according to the level of transmission of the virus in each of them. Thus, in June last year, the Council of Ministers approved, through a royal decree-law, since it was the legal rank, the flexibility of the use of masks in outer spaces, and their use, therefore, ceased to be mandatory, except in those exceptional cases in which their obligation was maintained, as could be in agglomerations, crowd events or when they were not accompanied by convivial persons. This measure at the time was possible because all the indicators related to the pandemic were evolving in a favourable way, especially the vaccination campaign, Mr Díaz. In this context, the decision was adopted with the proposal of the alerts of the Inter-Territorial Council of the Health System. The situation, as honourable Members know, remained in our country until December last year, on the occasion of the sixth epidemic wave. The reports of CCAES, the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, showed that, in the face of exponential growth, its use was important for its barrier effect and for its collaboration, therefore, in reducing the transmission of the virus. Also the ECDC reports, which establish as an appropriate public health policy the use of masks in public spaces in areas with high community transmission, when the public health objective is to limit such community transmission. And that, ladies and gentlemen, as you will recall, is what has happened since the second half of last December, a high Community transmission motivated by the Omicron variant. Faced with this, the President of the Government, as I have said in this rostrum, convened the Conference of Presidents, to assess the situation and take action since co-governance, and one of them was this. Your group, Mr Díaz, has so far not identified itself as going against the autonomous communities - so far - and I think it will continue to do so. It was a measure called for by virtually all the presidents of almost all the autonomous communities and endorsed by us as well. [[applause]] Why? Because following the CCAES and ECDC reports was a further barrier to stopping it from having higher Community transmission in each of the areas. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we did, to follow the advice of the experts and the agencies that advise the Government. You have said: propaganda; it seems to me like another regime, very alien to yours and mine, at least to the one with whom I share some things with you and your group, because I recognize the important work you have done in this pandemic. And on the basis of that, Your Honor, the day after that Conference of Presidents, in the Council of Ministers we adopted Royal Decree-Law 30/2021, where we established the mandatoryness of masks - I recall - for absolutely essential time. That was what we wanted, Mr Díaz, not because I came three days later and announced it, but because of the very parliamentary dynamics that you must know better than I do, Your Honor. And when the epidemiological indicators advised that we were already at the time of eliminating that obligation, it was what we did, because strictly complying with the constitutional provision I submitted to this House, as can be no other way, validation. Moreover, you will remember that in the said royal decree-law - which, by the way, is now being treated as a bill in this House and I am convinced that it will improve the text that the Government has presented, or at least I hope that your ladies and gentlemen are in it and I know that this is also an important enabler, Mr Díaz, because the legal rank gave a rigidity that even the warning statement itself said was contrary to the very variable situation of the epidemic. Every time we had to change, we had to go to a law and, therefore, established an authorization whereby the Government of Spain, by royal decree-law, could modify the compulsoryness of the masks, relying on the Interterritorial Council, to provide us with such flexibility. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, we approved Royal Decree 115/2022, by which we amended the mandatory use of masks on the outside, because all epidemiological indicators said so. Furthermore, I have to say that in this sixth wave, for some reason, and not for propaganda, but for facts, Mr Díaz, Spain has been recognized by international bodies in the management of the pandemic and also in the vaccination of this country. And for reasons that you will also share, Spain entered later in the sixth wave and is coming out of it before any country in our environment. Some reasons, some facts will have to do with that result, Mr. Díaz. And on the basis of that positive development, what we have done, by unanimity of those who make up the interterritorial council, is to establish a new horizon, Mr Díaz; a new horizon regarding the new surveillance that will take place in the first quarter of 2023, unanimously in the Zaragoza Declaration, where we will go to a sentinel surveillance through the IRAs, known as acute respiratory infections, both mild and severe. It is a system for the monitoring of communicable and non-communicable diseases which, of course, I will also be pleased to share with your ladies and gentlemen, because it seems to me to be an important element of progress that we have communicated to the ECDC and have asked us to share it with the rest of the European environment, because Spain continues to mark positive and favourable trends in the evolution of the pandemic and how to control it. And this point, ladies and gentlemen, was reached yesterday by the Committee on Public Health what it did was to approve this new transitional system until we reached this sentinel surveillance system in relation to COVID. That is what was done yesterday, where we are going to follow - and I want to make it clear to this House - by monitoring the incidence of COVID-19 but, now, focused and directed at those people who present vulnerability factors: immunocompromised, over sixty years old, pregnant women, those people who are in vulnerable environments, let's say health or social health environments, and serious cases. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still moving forward. The use of the masks inside will be another element of advancement, progressively and gradually. Because I know that you care about when, so do I, and all citizens understand that you care about when. This Government is tremendously sensitive to when, but being important when, how is very important, how is very important. When we scaled up in the use of mandatory masks in June 2021, we did so with the proposal of the alerts of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, and we will do it again when we have the proposal and how of the alerts of the Interterritorial Council, Mr Díaz. [[Applauds]] You will understand that in such an important decision, we will do so. Mr. Díaz, we are aware of the time that has passed. We are aware of the exemplary behavior that Spanish citizens have had, as we publicly acknowledge. We are also aware of the work that this House has done, and they know that this minister always recognizes it, even with groups that disagree, that they are in their legitimate right to do so, and I think that is enriching. But, of course, some terms that you have used, such as propaganda and fact, do not seem acceptable to me. Look, Milton Friedman said that one of the biggest mistakes is judging politicians for their intentions rather than their facts. What I've been talking about here is facts. Recognition by WHO Europe of the role that Spain has played, are facts; recognition by the European Commission, through President Von der Leyen, of what we have done in Spain, are facts; recognition and proposal by the ECDC for us to apply our monitoring models, are facts, ladies and gentlemen, and that, at the moment, with a new increase in incidence in most countries in our environment, in Spain is not increasing, are also facts, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, beyond legitimate criticism - which, of course, this minister respects and, of course, tries to face through dialectics and debate - I believe that we have a common goal, and that is to continue safeguarding lives. This minister and this Government will continue to do so by the hands of the experts and, above all, by the hand of co-governance with the autonomous communities, seeking unanimity and consensus, as this minister always does and always will do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u173	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u174	Madam Minister, Mrs Darias, one of the most time-consuming issues I use when I prepare these interventions is the rigour of the substantives and adjectives that you used because I am a great follower of Josep Pla, and I think we should be right, especially with the adjective, but in this case I will focus on a substantive: propaganda. Propaganda is not pejorative. According to the RAE, propaganda is the action and effect of making something known in order to attract followers. Another thing is that you bend to the pejorative use that others do, but your party and mine send election propaganda to people's mailboxes. When I say that you are based on propaganda, it is contrary to the criterion of data and the support of scientific evidence in the decisions you make. At the moment when I perceive, or my parliamentary group perceives, that there are elements that are alien to the scientific need and the judgement of experts and doctors, that there is something else that influences decisions on health or restrictions, it is when I say that there is propaganda after the action of the Government. It's no more serious or less serious. What is serious is that the propaganda permeates the action of the Government, the parliamentary groups and the Spanish political action, today, unfortunately, many times, much more than the circumstances recommend. I look very carefully for the terms I use. The Government has also been doing this from the outset. I remind you that we already knew that masks at a given time could avoid infection, especially at the time when there were no vaccines, and the Government did not recognize that they were necessary until there were masks. They adapted the need for masks to their availability. That, what is it? That is acting on criteria other than what scientific evidence dictated to us. I make an affirmation here and, moreover, time will give me reason. Mrs Darias, if you're waiting for a report that one day tells you that masks don't prevent contagion, I'll tell you when they're going to take away our masks: never. And I'll explain myself. The question is not whether or not the mask avoids contagion, the question is how the disease runs; the question is whether the mildness of the disease in the vast majority of Spaniards allows us to change the protocols and restrictions that the political authorities, based on the health criteria, must dictate to the population. If you expect a diabolical test, as it is called in legal terms, that says that a mask no longer avoids a contagion, we will never remove the mask because it will prevent us from COVID, flu, colds, allergy and smoke from cars. Obviously, it avoids these issues. The issue is how seriously the disease runs or whether the mask generates more harm than benefits, and I am convinced that we are at this point. But I tell you more, Minister, I am convinced, I am very convinced that without changing the epidemiological situation in Spain today, without changing significantly, you will announce the elimination of the mandatory mask inside. What's the most troubling thing about me? Two sides. The most important, that we impose a restriction on the Spaniards with a scientific basis, today, poor. That's what worries me the most. But the second aspect is that do not forget that they stalk those who have not yet become independent of religion and magic. What do you think that postmodernism, relativism and the creatures who have given birth to the left and right pretend that science is another point of view, and reality is testurious, science is not objective because scientists are objective, science is objective because the scientific method is objective. Madam Minister, on the basis of all this I say to you, please remove today the obligation of the mask inside. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u175	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Díaz, one of my leading philosophers, Adela Cortina, says that words not only say, but words also do. I usually agree a lot in the interventions you make; today I do not agree with the term you have used. Today, that rigor you say, at least I do not share it; I respect it, but I do not share it. Because I've talked about facts, I've talked about recognition, I've talked about positions, agency reports. I understand that you do not have to rely on this minister, it is your right not to do so, but if I talk to you about CCAES, with those experts, technicians of the ministry or an international body, such as the ECDC, who talks about the barrier effect? Especially when we talk about a high transmission, I think at least you would have to listen to them and not me. The truth is that I would like to tell you that we have been changing and taking steps as the pandemic has evolved. I have repeated many times, and I do so again in this rostrum, which has become more and more endemic without it still being, and therefore we are adapting our response. The Zaragoza Declaration has been a very important statement, in which we draw a new horizon from which public health surveillance is integrally. Indeed, a mandate of the Public Health Act of 2011, a mandate of the Reconstruction Commission of this Congress and a mandate that we are fulfilling with the public consultation of the royal decree on surveillance, with the creation of a state surveillance network, with the State Public Health Centre, which I hope will soon also be able to bring to this House and, of course, with a new surveillance system. Meanwhile, as we arrive at this new system for the surveillance of communicable and non-communicable diseases - hence the importance of this system - we will have a transitional period. Why a transitional period? Because it is not going to be necessary to continue counting on a case-by-case basis, on the assumption that the indicators are still as they are, because there is also provision for reversibility - I hope this does not happen - in case we are in other indicators. We have been adapting the response at every moment and we have been moving ahead with that response even in our European environments. These are facts, Mr. Díaz; they are facts and not propaganda that this Government does at the hands of the autonomous communities, from co-governance and from the maximum consensus. [[Applauds]] We're moving on. I think the next step is to eliminate the mandatory use of masks inside. When I say we're close, sooner rather than later - as I also said - it's because we're all taking steps in that direction. What are we missing? What do Citizens say? No, no, Let the warning paper make the proposal of how. Because when that time comes, Mr Díaz, there will be spaces where it will remain mandatory, or perhaps it should remain mandatory, and that is the proposal we want from the experts. Should it continue to be compulsory in public transport? Should it continue to be mandatory - inside, I mean - in events or agglomerations? Should it continue to be in vulnerable environments? Should it continue to be in other areas? That's what we want to know to take the step, and I assure you it will be sooner than later. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u177	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the meeting, to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to report on the demands of the calls to the 20M event, the Government's response to the same, the planned actions to address the crisis affecting the primary sector and the whole of the agricultural system, exacerbated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the destabilization of the international markets in raw materials, and the impact on the Spanish agricultural system. [[File number 172/000189]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u178	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, to report on the demands of the callers for the 20M demonstration, the response of the Government to them, the actions planned to deal with the crisis that is facing the primary sector and the whole agri-food system, aggravated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the destabilization of the international markets in raw materials, and the impact on the Spanish agri-food system. For her defence, Mrs González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u179	Thank you, President. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in 1759 Voltaire wrote one of his masterpieces, a philosophical tale entitled Cándido or optimism. In him, a young man educated by a philosopher is convinced by him that everything that happens in the world is for good and, although he lives a series of misfortunes and misfortunes, he remains in the conviction of his teacher that everything that happens is best possible. After many avatars, Candido finally realizes that the foundation of his master's theory, obstinacy in defending vehemently that everything is magnificent when in reality everything is bad, is not the best approach. You have been coming to this House, over and over again, to tell us the kindness of a sector and the effectiveness of the measures of your ministry. Minister, do not delay so much as Candido to realize that the situation is terrible and that it is up to you and the rest of the Government to take the necessary steps to correct it. That's what you're the minister for, that's what you're the government for. Nothing happened until two weeks ago, and now, all of a sudden, everything happens. This is not true. Mr. Minister, you are faced with the perfect storm: your paralysis, coupled with the gross measures contrary to the survival of a productive rural and maritime environment of your government partner, the Minister of Ecological Transition, such as, for example, the amendment of the Coast Law, the prohibition of the hunting of the wolf in the north of the Duero or the absence of a policy of irrigation with zero budget; the childish but harmful occurrences of your partner, but noamigo, the Minister of Consumers, around issues such as the quality of Spanish meat, the suitability of diet or sugar products; a preliminary draft deeply erroneous law on animal welfare advocated by the Ministry of Social Rights, which directly impacts on livestock activities and the uses of the field; the erroneous decisions of the Minister of Labour, with its repeated rise of the interprofessional minimum wage and its impact, of course, on the wage of the field, and with the elimination of the temporality in sectors where it is impossible to consecrate the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the wasteful, the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the government, the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the waste of the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the wastefulness of the waste. [[Applauds]] The rural environment, Minister, requires respect. Minister, I'm sure you weren't at the Sunday demonstration, I am. [[Show a picture]] This is just a very contained and respectful image of rural desperation, which by 2020 employed three million people, 11.7% of the national total, which contributed EUR 100 billion in billing and 9.7% of GDP. Farmers, farmers, hunters and bullfighters concentrated, without any incident, without any burnt containers, on a demonstration which, according to the organisers, brought together 400,000 people. [[The Lord]] To this we can also add the very delicate situation of the people of the sea, with a very similar problem. A sector on the verge of bankruptcy, if not broken already, to which you receive, by the way, this afternoon; a sector that exported last year worth 3815 million euros and which employed directly 30,000 people. With much of the bassura fleet tied by the prices of diesel and the other without being able to give way to their catches due to the transport strike - to which you have ordered to call it - their profit margin is null and void and their alternative, none, just ruin. For this reason, the two hundred Spanish confreres called this Monday a three-day stoppage to which they are obliged, because, due to the closure and incompetence of their Government, of their ministry, the impossibility of transferring their catches to distribution and to consumers is total. It is a sector which has already stated that it cannot wait for the activation of the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, announced yesterday by the European Commissioner, to materialise in aid, since it takes eight to twelve months for it to be released. My partner, Joaquín García Díez, told you a few minutes ago. For this reason, the Spanish Confederation of Fisheries and the Federation of Brotherhoods require you, Minister, to take concrete and urgent measures that can be implemented immediately, such as those agreed in France, with subsidies on diesel oil, the reduction or temporary exemption of social security contributions, the reduction of VAT on fishery products to 4% or the reduction of port tariffs and charges for ports that depend on the General Administration of the State. Although the President of the Government, with the development and lack of rigour that is his own, tried last Wednesday to blame everything that is happening to the invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin, who said that he has been preparing himself for a year, what is really being prepared by you - and applying itself also to conscience in this - is the demolition of the primary sector. [[Applauds]] They've been in this for over a year; they've been in the whole legislature. Minister, you will remember that a few days after the confinement of the COVID-19, exactly two years ago, you had before the ministry farmers and livestock farmers with their tractors manifesting themselves by the same problems that continue to leave them in 2022, but greatly aggravated by their inaction. In view of the rise in production costs - particularly fuels and energy - of 96% on an annual basis, which has led to inflation which you described as timely and which already amounts to 7.6 percentage points; in view of the rise in raw material prices - fertilizers 150% more expensive than last year and feed 35 % - and the impossibility of impacting such increases on product prices, with the consequent imbalance and loss of income for businesses and self-employed workers; in view of the failure to fulfil their own commitments to the sector, such as the creation of a negotiating table on taxation and energy, which has never met since they agreed to its creation in February 2020; for its fiscal avidity, since it is not only the People's Parliamentary Group - my group - which suspects that this is the reason why certain decisions are being delayed by it, and finally, in recent weeks, by the outbreak of the Russian war against Ukraine and its consequences for the Spanish market - we cannot see that the 40 % of oil imported into the whole of the cereals is now imported into the Community. And all this with the colophon of the transport strike, to which you do not even seek solution because you deny legitimacy to the platform that summons it and that has given the dot to a sector sick of gravity preventing its products - milk, fruit, meat, fish - from reaching their final destination and, at the same time, hinders the farms from receiving the necessary products, for example, for the feeding of livestock. Minister, we are facing a real hecatombe. You have managed to regain the original meaning of this word: the sacrifice of cattle, which in this case is not due to an offering to the gods, but will be a consequence of the bad policies for which you, together with your government colleagues, are responsible. Your commendable optimism cannot make up the reality, which forces you to make decisions today, Minister, without waiting for another day, even if it is already late for the survival of many companies and your calls to unity sound a desperate regret that you have not followed the examples of Italy, Portugal, Poland, France or Germany and have not implemented measures unilaterally even though you could have done so. France has limited the rise in electricity prices to 4 %. Reduces the price of fuel to farmers, farmers, transporters and other self-employed. In a deposit of 60 euros will be saved 9, Minister. Portugal launched subsidies for the purchase of fuel already last October. Ireland announced last week a reduction in the excise duty on fuel to lower petrol and diesel prices. What has Spain done? He hasn't done anything. It has been shielded from the need to wait for decisions for the Union as a whole, filling the patience of farmers, farmers and fishermen with their inaction, and it brings further, to the Council of Ministers next day 29, the announcement of the measures that we really hope they will take, but that we already doubt their effectiveness. Perhaps you were waiting for a photo: the photo of the triumphant president of the government after a tour of European capitals and a story, also victorious, that has collapsed. By that picture and by that blurry account they accept that every day many companies close their doors and an even greater number of self-employed people are ruined, Minister. You are faced with the ghost of the global desalination of food and basic necessities after the Spanish society had conjured you up during the pandemic thanks to the sector, which bravely drew all the obstacles and allowed the Spanish population to have food in quantity and quality. At the moment, we cannot resort to the argument of a cause of force majeure, as was the global epidemic, but rather to the situation of enormous tensions resulting from the lack of dialogue of a Government that lives behind citizens and their demands, which it describes as radical when it makes use of its right to disagree, in a peaceful but noisy manner, because of its inoperability. You have not made any predictions, you have not presented or prepared any contingency plans, even if the President of the Government says you have been predicting the war for a year. Without going further, you yourself on 27 January considered it very premature to make assessments or make decisions about the consequences of a possible conflict in Ukraine. Minister, these are images of my hometown, Santiago de Compostela; supermarket lines without milk, without eggs, pasta, chicken, fish, tomatoes and other vegetables, limitation of the purchase of sunflower oil and seeds and prices fired on the rest of the products; milk spilled in origin, fish wasted in the port and cattle about to perish for lack of food. All this has been aggravated by the strike of transporters, whose organizers you continue to discredit with all kinds of disqualifications without responding not only to the transport sector, but also to the agri-food sector, which is the main one affected in this week and a half.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u180	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u181	I'm done, Mr. President. It is the sector on its own that is looking for solutions, they are sitting with the transporters to seek agreements of minimums in the face of their abandonment of functions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u182	Your Honor, finish; as you know, you have a second turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u183	It's over now. Minister, you can continue to take refuge in your alternate reality and say to the Spaniards, like Candido: let's go to another universe, that universe in which everything is good. But reality, which is stubborn, is also very difficult; in our universe, bills are not paid with ether, but with euros, and companies are ruined. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u184	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Then, on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u185	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Gonzalez, I am very pleased to come up to this rostrum to answer the People's Group's question about the present moment of our rural world, of the agri-food sector and of the food supply, and, as always, I have heard the intervention of the spokesman of the People's Group with great attention and respect, and the truth is that his intervention is summed up in an idea: either the PP, or the apocalypse, but the problem is that the apocalypse is you, it is you in your metaverse, in your alternative reality, in which you claim that the day will be dark and so have a slight opportunity. [[rumors]] [[applause]] Sincerely, this Government is not in this task, it is obviously working for the whole of our primary sector, for our farmers, for our farmers, for our rural world and for our fishermen. And last Sunday a demonstration took place in Madrid, in fact, the right to demonstrate is a constitutional right to which this Government and this party are proud, we are parents of the Constitution and that is why we fully respect it. By the way, a demonstration whose date was known since last autumn and in which a number of organizations of our rural world - farmers, farmers, hunters, lidia bulls, regents - manifested themselves, and I believe that the conclusion - and I have already said it - was very evident: the rural world wants to be heard and to make its voice heard. And, of course, this government has taken good note because it is a government of listening, dialogue and negotiation. And I even go further, the convoking organizations themselves have different positions within them, I would say, around the issues raised; let's leave it there. Obviously, it is up to the Government of Spain to have a position and to respond to it. I see that you have nothing to worry about the war in Ukraine. You just mentioned a statement from me, supposedly from January 17. The war had not begun, we did not know if it would actually take place; unfortunately, it has been confirmed this way and I must say that we have honestly had no war in Europe in my generation or in its own. This is a tremendously inhuman, unjust, painful situation, contrary to international law, to the principles of the United Nations and to the Helsinki Act, which obviously shock not only Europe but the planet, and which has consequences I believe are obvious. I do not know if you live out of reality, but the increase in energy, diesel or gas prices, or the increase in raw materials, cereals or oilseeds is there. Since when have we had a price, for example, for rapeseed exceeding EUR 600 per tonne? Or wheat, in terms of more than EUR 400 per tonne? Or corn, in more than 350 euros per ton? Of course, whoever cultivates it benefits from it and I am very happy, but also from inputs that grow very important - our fertilizers - in really important figures. All that marks the moment. I therefore believe that two aspects must be taken into account. Firstly, a structural aspect: where we are heading and what this Government is doing. And, secondly, an issue that is short-term, that is, how we respond to the present moment. Let me say briefly, on the structural front, that this Government has taken measures of the greatest significance and the greatest positive weight for the sector in the time of its mandate. For example, the reform of the food chain law - which you do not like to talk about at all, but if you want to talk about it - to guarantee decent prices to our farmers and livestock farmers. Today, the Minister of Transport mentioned this precedent in relation to a complaint, now from the transport sector, check whether this legislative measure is positive, and the sector has acknowledged it. Or the largest allocation of European funds in history for this period from now to the year 2027, EUR 47 724 million, which is with national and autonomous funding more than 50 billion for the CAP. Or the allocation of the programme of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, 1051 million as regards, first, the coordinated actions from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, or more than 1 billion -1003 million - in the case of the agri-food loss. Therefore, a higher allocation of financial means to support the sector during this period. Or bet on sustainable watering. You said a moment ago nothing for watering. What do you mean, nothing for watering? It is 800 million euros between financing the recovery plan, plus co-financing of the communities of regents and more than 200 million euros, including those of the budget and co-financing. Therefore, more than EUR 1 billion, the largest figure dedicated to the sustainable irrigation that we have had in this century in the history of our country. Or, to mention just a few links that I think are most relevant, the bet on agricultural insurance, which this year stands at more than EUR 257 million. But, in fact, this is a time of particular problems and last week we adopted in the Council of Ministers a very important decree law on drought for an overall amount of EUR 450 million, which I will present to you in plenary next week for validation, where measures of such scope are included as a horizontal decrease of 20% of the amount of the IRPF in the system of singular objective estimation of the modules, or the cancellation of the IBI to those farms that have decreased their yield by more than 30%, or liquidity measures, with 10 million euros for the sector, which in the mechanism that we have established can reach the 100 million for the whole of the credits for it, or 2.4 million in terms of guarantees, or 11 million in terms of agricultural insurance to strengthen them in the face of drought, plus social measures, or in terms of water, of exemption of canons or of reduction of desalination rates, which are so important for our farmers. And indeed, the war in Ukraine also has far more significant and important consequences on agricultural markets at Community level. The recent extraordinary Council of Heads of State and Government, held in Versailles, once again emphasises the importance of the European Union's food autonomy, and this Monday we obtained in Brussels an important package of demands which I myself had defended at the extraordinary Council on 2 March and which was the script of the decision taken by the European Council of Ministers. The first is the activation by the European Commission of Article 219 of the Common Market Organisation, which means that Spain will receive EUR 64.5 million of new Community aid, which can be increased by the national budget and the autonomous budgets, and we are working on that. Secondly, the activation of private storage in the pig sector at a time of price fluctuations has made the situation in the pig sector difficult, particularly in Europe, at least in Spain, but we certainly also benefit from it. Also, temporary exemption from the compulsory beard from areas of ecological interest. We have 21.5 million hectares of useful agricultural land in Spain and we apply a minimum of 5%, but sometimes it reaches up to 10%; that is, we have 2 million hectares that we are going to put into production for our farmers - basically I am thinking of sunflower and maize - thanks to the decision we have taken at European level. As well as the increase in CAP advances for next October; the revision of the public aid framework or, very important, the relaxation of the waste limit, which allows us to import maize necessary for our feed production - we are the first feed manufacturer in the European Union - in view of our livestock sector. Therefore, a set of measures which prepare and articulate a very strong European response together with that which, of course, will also be given by the activation of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund. By the way, Spain was the only country that asked for it and twelve joined us, and the European Commission followed Spain's approach. That doesn't matter to you at all. [[Applauds]] But let them know, they reflect it even in the newspapers of their autonomous community. Read them, please, they reflect it to the newspapers of your autonomous community; therefore, you will know very well what that situation is. In conclusion, we are faced with an extraordinary situation in which an extraordinary response is needed, which is tremendously difficult and where this Government, with the President at the head, is committed to providing a response to all the sectors affected by this economic situation resulting from the Russian invasion of Ukraine, giving each of them the response that is necessary and deserves. And, of course, I am absolutely convinced that we will continue to work for the primary sector, farmers, farmers, fishermen and, of course, the agri-food industry, of which I understand and understand. We will continue to work for this agri-food sector, which we want to make it modern and competitive, for farmers and farmers who receive a fair and dignified remuneration for their work, where value is created and distributed equitably throughout the chain and where citizens have the necessary food in quantity, desired in quality, sufficient and at an appropriate price. So simple and so important. Therefore, the Government is going to work on this, and we hope to count, although I certainly do not take it from his words, also with his cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u186	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u187	Thank you, President. Minister, in general we all try to continually reaffirm what we believe in by seeking opinions that support our ideas. These unquestioned beliefs are a problem, because they often do not have much to do with the reality of the environment. Maybe you're the wrong one, sometimes at least. That is what the sector thinks, which was massively manifested last Sunday. If you have no answers to your problems, listen at least to what the sector is asking for; the People's Parliamentary Group has grouped them together, registered them and will say it again in the motion accompanying this inquiry. Minister, if the date of the demonstration was known last autumn, why did you not put in place measures to support the sector and wait for last week, precisely the week of the demonstration, to take those first measures? This is not a problem of the present moment, this is only happening here in Spain. The chain law, which you mentioned, has not been the solution. Minister, we are waiting for more measures. Do not ask the opposition for a blank cheque or unconditional accession. The opposition in a democratic regime is not for that, but to highlight the problems and propose solutions, which you are not implementing. [[Applauds]] Minister, we are delighted that you have asked the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries to activate the European Maritime Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture. Looks like you think we're not happy. No, that is not what we are telling you, what we are telling you is that aid will not come as soon as possible until the end of the year and, of course, that is not a solution for a dying sector, Minister. The sector therefore calls for measures of all kinds, but immediate, some of a structural and other short-term nature. [[The lady]] Among the first, and in the face of this very serious crisis situation, it is necessary to prioritise food sovereignty, which implies the revision of the proposed CAP strategic plan which you sent to Brussels last December, updating itself to the current circumstances with the participation, of course, of agricultural professional organisations and of the autonomous communities. The revision of the European Green Pact and Community strategies to protect both the profitability of producers and Spanish food sovereignty. The review of LEPRE, once again allowing the wolf to be hunted, the protection of livestock and new investments in water, Minister. And between the times we wanted to highlight some. Firstly, the use of the European funds from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to take the necessary measures for the sector, although these funds for agriculture and fisheries are only 0.75% of the funds that Spain receives, when the sector contributes 12% of GDP. [[Applauds]] Are you satisfied, Minister, with that distribution and with the part which has been allocated to agriculture and fisheries? We need subsidies on gas oil, plastics and fertilizer bills for the activities of all operators in the chain, a measure that is also included in the law and is not being implemented. We need the advance of the CAP to provide liquidity to the sector, which is indebted to impossible limits, to extraordinary limits. The creation of a credit line that also helps to provide liquidity in the face of open payments that they face, and even a moratorium on outstanding payments. The reduction of VAT on fishery products to 4%. The reduction of VAT on basic products to 4% has now been authorised by Brussels. Minister, tell us if it is going to be launched immediately in Spain or if it is not going to be so. The reduction of VAT on purchases of means of production by agricultural producers to 4%. Immediate search for new markets in origin to ensure the supply of food, especially for livestock. To regulate contracts for access to the transmission and distribution networks for irrigation, establishing the availability of two different powers. Minister, it's in the law and it's not being enforced. The implementation of the Special Drought Control Fund provided for in Law 1/2018, incorporating not only drought losses, but also those linked to increases in production prices or market misadjustments. This measure was left to you by the People's Party government, why don't you use it now? And finally, the reduction of income tax for agricultural, livestock and fishing activities affected by market imbalances by 2021.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u188	Mrs. González, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u189	I'm on my way, President. Mr Planas, 400 000 people on the street told you last Sunday that they can't do it anymore. Three dramatic days have already passed when the situation has become even worse. He cannot continue to happily lock himself in the ivory tower of the ministry, while around him the sector collapses. If there are no immediate measures, the incapacity and inaction in the countries of our environment, Minister, receive a single answer: cessation or resignation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u190	Thank you, Mrs. González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the problem with making a reply that is written is that, logically, you have not listened to me. So, as you have not listened to me, for many of the things I have said you have later claimed. It seems very good to me, that shows the fixed pinion logic that you have in your political argument. But there is something that seems infinitely more serious to me, and it is how you have the face to put yourself in the lead and try to politicize a demonstration of farmers and livestock farmers when you have done absolutely nothing for the primary sector in Spain. [[Applauds]] You haven't done anything, and I'll start by telling you what you don't want to tell. The law of the food chain: written contracts for operations of more than 1000 euros and that the selling price is always higher than the production costs. The People's Party has not supported it and farmers and farmers remember that. And if not, we will remind you, because you have not been able to support what when you were in government you were not able to do for the sector, a claim that was historic and that is absolutely fundamental. Look how it now reappears in other sectors as a breakthrough. The European Commissioner told me: the next reform of the directive will be based on what Spain has included as a result of its transposition. Therefore, we are in the lead and you, as always, are trying to stop. Secondly, European funds. But let's see, how do you talk about percentages? If this is the period when the primary sector, since 1986, will have greater European funds, thanks to a CAP that exceeds its 2014-2020 period in the negotiation and, in addition, to the recovery funds! How can you say that? There are, in total, more than €54 billion, including co-financing. Therefore, funds will not be lacking. By the way, national strategic plan negotiated with all the autonomous communities, with consensus - I am sorry - even with theirs, which have not followed the guidelines of Genoa. [[Applauds]] I'm so sorry, but you do understand me. They were understood in July 2020 in relation to the national strategic plan; they have been understood in the national kinegetic strategy. This week I went to Brussels with the support of all the autonomous communities, including those of the People's Party, and I am proud. [[Applauds]] You here have used the word collapse before, and I understand it, but it is you who are in collapse and therefore have a difficulty in the very big speech. Let's see if you get it back on 3 April - sorry, I correct, on 2 April; I like to be exact - because this opposition, of opposition to everything, in which you are calmly, as if it were not with you, with all the problems that Spanish society has, simply trying to put sticks on the wheels and creating difficulties, does not help anyone. [[Protests.-A lady MP: The 2]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u192	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u193	Regadío, I've told you: more than a billion euros. You say zero, but ask your partner, Mrs. Marcos. Castilla y León is the first autonomous community with more funds than ever in investment, irrigation and modernization or insurance. Look, when the Socialist Party of the Government came out it was 290 million; we have recovered 210 and we are already going for 257 million euros of support for agricultural insurance, which is so important to our country. There is one issue which I do not think is at all minor and which has not appeared in this debate, but which I read yesterday in the press of Castile and León. If agriculture and livestock are so important to you, why are you going to hand over the Agriculture Council to the extreme right? [[Applauds]] Why are they going to turn it over to the extreme right, to a party that questions parts of our Constitution, that considers the principles of the United Nations to be ideology and that the European Union is a globalist structure that oppresses us? That is why Mrs Merkel left the post, so that the infamy of them entering the Government of Thuringia would not be committed, and you have set up a bridge for them to enter. Frankly, it seems to me to be an unanalysable fact and that is why I mention it, not just for agriculture, but for Spain. You've called me optimistic and I am. I am optimistic because in Spain we have a sector that in the last year produced 32.5 billion euros, which is the second figure in the historical series of Spain, and 60 billion euros of exports.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u194	Minister, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u195	It's over. In the meantime, we will continue to work with that sector, which has a future, close to it, alongside it and working for it. Join in this and do not put obstacles at a time as difficult as this country has. This minister and this government hold hands with you, but you also have to be and respond positively. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, some of whom have stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u196	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u197	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group into the measures envisaged by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism in the face of the resurgence of the pre-existing energy crisis and raw materials caused by the invasion of Ukraine. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. Unzetabarrenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u198	Thank you, President. Today I come to defend the motion following my group's questioning the Minister of Industry for the high energy costs of last week. We said it then: the main energy cost that industries have to face is the result of electricity consumption. Predictability, stability and competitiveness of electricity prices are therefore essential to facilitate industrial activity. This is not because industry accounts for 13% of GDP in the state and 24% in the case of Euskadi and yet it is now hit by such high energy costs that it cannot transfer customers or suppliers. To this, we must add the bottlenecks, the shortage of raw materials and supplies and the war in Ukraine, which has highlighted energy dependence and made gas increase in price. Industry is news today because it cannot keep up with current prices. It is news for production stops, for having to go to ERTE, and even talk about some relocations to countries with lower energy costs. In addition, it is news because the industry is asking for help and it is up to the government to give an effective, decisive, immediate and, of course, non-vacillating response. [[Rumors]] We cannot announce measures that in less than forty-eight hours fall apart or withdraw, because this creates greater insecurity; we cannot be loosing the margarita until day 29 leaving all the decisions to Europe, at a crucial time when the government is also falling apart. Ladies and gentlemen of the groups that are part of the government... [[the rumors continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u199	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Ladies and gentlemen, those in the hall, the plenary is on its way. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. A little education!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u200	He said that the margarita could not be being emptied until day 29 at a crucial time when the Government, moreover - and forgive me for saying so - is falling apart. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen of the groups that are part of the government, do not realize that famous phrase which said that the best industry is the one that does not exist, because it seems that we are on our way to achieving it: industry in shell, damaged agricultural sector, transport on strike, fishing fleet stopped. For this reason, the Basque Parliamentary Group is going to propose a series of measures to alleviate these energy costs of industry, to boost renewable energy projects and reduce this energy dependence in the medium term, as well as to call for the impetus of projects linked to energy and productive transformation. Industry, electricity consumers, need to get more competitive electricity prices than they do today because the wholesale market price is fixed in a marginal market where the most expensive technology is marking the price for all generators and also for traders. It is gas, a gas that has also increased its price in recent months, and that is why it is necessary to decouple the price of natural gas in the daily market. For this reason, what we propose is to limit the gas price of combined cycles to a maximum of a reference price to be established, so that that reference price marks the marginal, and since the marginal is the one setting the price of the pool, it is already low. What is the main barrier to your application? A financing solution must be found to compensate for the extra cost of gas that this generation assumes for the difference between the actual daily price of the gas market and the established reference price. The easy thing here would be to say nothing about how to finance that difference or to say that the financing was borne by the electricity system - tariff deficit - or general state budgets, but this meant increasing the deficit and the debt, and we do not think we should go that way. What we are going to propose is to finance this difference through a time charge to electric consumers, but as the cost overrun, that difference only affects part of the generation, which is gas, and which accounts for 15% of the entire generation, its effect is diluted and that charge would be reduced. Depending on the reference for that gas price, the pool price can be lowered by between 25% and 55%. In short, what we are proposing is a self-sustaining system, so that the closer the real price of gas is to the lowest reference price, the more the charge will be. We also propose to allocate the maximum revenue from emission allowances auctions to indirect CO2 compensation, as allowed by the European Commission, and to implement a compensation system throughout the debt year itself, rather than the year immediately thereafter. It is a measure which Europe allows, and which, in fact, other governments are implementing for their industries, and which has been implemented here in the last year, but with reluctance and far from the maximum permitted. In addition, we propose amending the Statute for Electrointensive Consumers because, on the one hand, it is being inefficient, because at this juncture we are experiencing the benefits that can be derived from it have been yafagocited by high prices, and on the other hand, because it is necessary to open it to more companies, eliminating the additional requirements or requirements that limit the number of companies that have the consideration of electrointensive, as Europe has been allowing, and also responding to what is being demanded by industry and also to the parliaments of Asturias, Cantabria and Galicia. We also propose that the tariff schedule be revised to encourage the management of night demand for the industry, establishing a P-7 period of night shift; a measure that was approved, of course, in a motion in the Senate by almost all parliamentary groups. It is a measure that is in line with the European regulation and that the government can push even though it is the responsibility of the CNMC. We call for a series of measures to accelerate renewable projects to minimize energy dependence in the medium term and move from a centralized generation model to a distributed generation model. We also propose to launch once and for all the calls of the PERTE to bring the money to the industry, as well as a measure to guarantee the supply or disposal of raw materials that are no longer considered essential, but strategic for key technological products and to carry on those PERTE as the VEC loss. Finally, we call for a response to industries that export industrial equipment - machinery, tools or others - that are affected by the sanctions imposed on Russia and that affect their order portfolio. I would like to thank the political groups that have proposed amendments. We are not going to accept them because we want our proposals to be voted on point by point and because many of the proposals they put forward, such as tax measures, have already been announced by the Government in this income pact, others because they are much more generic than those we are presenting and others because they cover beyond industry. But I would like to respond to the amendments of the two groups that are part of the Government. On the one hand, União Podemos proposes to decouple the price of gas and set the price at 75 euros. We understand that that price could be discussed, because we would have to study all the price scenarios, their impacts, and we should come to an agreement in that regard. And, on the other hand, they are presenting a fiscal proposal that we believe could be considered within that fiscal reform pact that they are establishing together with the Government. With regard to the PSOE amendments, genuinely and lovingly, they are lukewarm, unconcrete amendments, because they are left at dawn to certain circumstances and we see no concretion. For example, in the decoupling of gas, they do not get wet, they pose us a generic transaction: concrete measures to work to eliminate the contagion of gas. What are they? It is that, moreover, this has already been announced.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u201	Mrs. Sagastizabal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u202	The corporal. They have already proposed it in Europe, so are they not going to continue to carry it there now? Finally, on the issue of indirect costs of CO2, we have not just understood this. They will have to explain why they tell us not when Europe is doing it. They limit us to budgetary availability, they have applied 179 million in the budget this year when they should apply at least four hundred and ten million more. Do so and show that you are with the industry; show clear and forceful concreteness and measures. It's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u204	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are debating this motion as a result of an urgent inquiry by the Basque Nationalist Party into measures to be taken in the face of the energy and raw materials crisis resulting from the invasion of Ukraine. These are proposals with which we are basically in favour, and I have forwarded it to the spokesman. But it is true that we would like to make some clarifications and that is why we have tabled amendments to this motion. Firstly, and in relation to the idea of catching up on the price of gas, this is a measure which could perhaps have an undesirable effect. Nor can we support the proposal to subsidise combined cycle plants, basically because it would be a fossil subsidy and send the wrong market signal. It would be a nonsense to subsidize natural gas while it is abandoned to technology, for example nuclear or hydroelectric, when none of it emits carbon and is covered by the Community taxonomy of green investments. For many months now, we have been proposing to the Government that a power table be set up to deal with the extension of the useful life of nuclear power plants in Spain and to draw up a plan of measures to facilitate the response of nuclear technology, including the removal of regulatory barriers and the political risk of allowing companies to invest in the construction of new power plants. And not only that, all these issues that are emerging today, we have been asking for it for months, and if this energy table had been created at the time when we proposed it for the first time, we would have had a breast where the people who have to talk about it and who have to make decisions had so many more ideas, such as the one proposed now by the Basque Nationalist Party or which other parties have proposed during all these months. But the Government only wants to wait for that revolutionary idea that will solve everything, but it may not reach them or, at least, today has not reached them. In a single year - combining the effects of the price escalation of gas after the pandemic and the war in Ukraine - natural gas has gone from costing 17.36 euros the megawatt hour, in March last year, to over 200. To respond to the emergency price situation from Citizens we argue that the best option would possibly be to take the natural gas out of the pool by uncoupling its electricity prices. As regards the revenue from emission allowances auctions for indirect CO2 compensation, we support any measure that is intended to use such revenue to reduce the electricity bill. In this regard, as we amended in the 2022 State General Budgets, we believe that the optimal solution would be, from the entry into force of the law - which is still waiting in the drawer of the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system - to allocate the credit generated to the financial endowment of the fund under the conditions provided for in article 3 of the bill. What is true is that we are seeing that this fund is not being dealt with because perhaps it is not trusted enough that it can help in times of crisis as serious as the ones we are suffering right now. We also support, as it could not otherwise be, measures in favour of the electro-intensive industry, particularly affected since last year by the tremendous impact of cost escalation as its main supply. We continue to ask the Government to be more ambitious in the development of the Statute for Electrically Intensified Consumers, with exemptions from tolls similar to those enjoyed by the long-standing German and French industries, as well as the Portuguese, which will have a 94% reduction in their access rates by 2022. So our industry, of course, makes it much less competitive. Spain's electro-intensive companies generate half of the gross industrial product of industrial exports and R & D & i, in addition to 2.8 million jobs. I do not know what this Government is waiting for to solve this problem. On tolls and charges, from Citizens we have repeatedly called on the Government to reverse the removal of the extra 96% reduction in electricity bill charges and to prolong the reduction in VAT, the excise duty on electricity and the tax on the value of electricity production. It is a motion for a law that we very much agree with on many points, and that is why we believe that, although some of the amendments have not been accepted, the point vote will allow us to support many of the proposals made by this party. In short, from Citizens we will always push for measures aimed at alleviating the economic impact that families are suffering from inflation, as we have been doing since September and now much more with the crisis in Ukraine, and when a bill or motion comes that does, we will support it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comuno.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u206	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs. The invasion of Ukraine has triggered a huge humanitarian crisis, a war that has shaken us and whose economic impacts we are beginning to see. The first is the severe energy crisis. The common sense of the majority of citizens tells us that the cost of this energy crisis cannot fall on the people, tells us that it is time for the big electricity companies, which have not had or suffered any hardship during these two long years of pandemic - it is more, they have, as we know, obtained huge profits in the last year - to provide what is theirs, to be co-responsible for the exit from the crisis. The Government is, as we know, developing a national plan to respond to the invasion of Ukraine. This plan must contain courageous and effective measures, which send a clear message of support to families and of support to industry, which connects with this sense of majority citizenship. As for the motion submitted by the Basque Nationalist Party, we share the fundamental argument. On the one hand, it is true that the high price of gas and its impact on the formation of the price of electricity in the wholesale market are wasting our industry, whose costs are rising. Similarly, the problems of global raw material supply circuits are contributing to aggravating this problem in our industry. We also share some of the proposals that appear in the operative part. It is necessary and urgent to reform the electricity market. Strong measures must be taken in the electricity market to decouple the impact of the increase in the price of gas on the price of electricity, which is fixed on the wholesale market. But for the United States, it is a priority to put an end to the extraordinary benefits of electricity companies. These fallen profits from the sky are the other side of the coin of the problem that plagues our industry, that is, the overpayment of electrics becomes a cost overrun for our industrial fabric. In this respect, we have proposed in our amendments to set a maximum gas price of EUR 75 megawatt/hour. We do not share what is proposed in point 1 of the operative part, that is, that the State must subsidise electricians the high price of gas in order to make it possible to reduce their price. We believe that it is a mistake for the State to help sustain benefits that have no economic justification and more at a time, as we know, of a serious economic crisis and a lack of public resources. We are going in the opposite direction, we are proposing a 10% surcharge on the tax on electric companies, which is also said by the OECD. If we want to continue to maintain our welfare state with public services for all and for all, we must invest in its maintenance. Either we have the resources to maintain these public services or we will have more cuts. There are no more roads. With regard to this proposal, the Basque Nationalist Party, which governs in Euskadi, would ask you to use our self-government there for the benefit of the social majority. It is now when it comes to taking breasts, I believe, of our self-government, when it comes to using this self-government for the benefit of the citizenry, which is suffering many hardships. For this we must invoke right now the regulatory power that we have in Euskadi and also our economic concert, not to give more tax holidays, not to do favors to the big energy companies to keep their tax domicile in Euskadi with a tax of light companies and, of course, not to continue to maintain revolving doors. I would like to remind you that the Basque Parliament has the capacity, in extraordinary times, to put in place extraordinary measures, to put in place surcharges. We've already used it at some difficult times. Well, perhaps the time has come to establish an extraordinary surcharge to the electric oligopoly. It must be a priority that the consequences of this crisis do not fall, I repeat, on the shoulders of the usual workers, of those paid by the IRPF, VAT or indirect taxes. It is up to you to pay those who have made a lot of money during this pandemic. It's justice. It is therefore time to protect Basque families, young people, the Basque industry, and to make the electric oligopoly pay its share, both in Madrid and Bilbao. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we are debating a motion for urgent questioning by the Basque Nationalist Party, which proposes a set of measures to alleviate the situation in which we are at very high energy prices in Spain. And I say conjuncture, because it does propose short-term measures; it does not propose structural measures, which are what Spain really needs, because the energy situation does not respond only to Putin's circumstances, despite the fact that the PSOE lies go in that direction. No, it responds to a structural situation in which we are stuck for many years, and the problem is that the People's Party and PSOE, as well as the right-wing gentlemen, have forgotten about the workers on the left-wing side. They forgot those workers in the field, those workers in the industry and in the steel industry, and the proof is that, without going any further, last week they had to stop one of the high furnaces in Sestao without the PNV even changing here, because they have forgotten what the real reasons are and what the real impact of the measures they have been taking for many years. [[applause]] And it is necessary to include in this cocktail the Veleta party, Citizens, which says here today expressly that it opposes some of the measures proposed in this initiative because it is not frontal enough opposed to CO2 emissions, when that is precisely the nuclear issue that has caused the short-term situation in Spain. And it is that all the climate measures that the People's Party and PSOE have been supporting for years have brought us to where we are today, and today we are in that energy has multiplied by ten times its price. What cost 70 in January last year, now costs 700; gas, has increased by 800 %; fuel, by 25 %; copper, by 45 % - and this comes from November -; nickel, by 250 %; maize, by 20 %; wheat, by 26 %; barley, by 21 %. And all this, why? Because Community policies relating to energy and food, all the planning that has been carried out, have failed. [[Applauds]] It has failed because its climate policies have increased energy and production to such an extent that it has been expelled from Spain, Europe and our environment, and we have launched it to third countries on which we now rely exclusively. So, now bringing barley costs us more, bringing wheat costs us more because it is no longer profitable to grow it and produce it here. That's why we have to import aluminum; that's why energy is at these deorbited prices; that's why our carriers suffer; that's why our cattle farmers suffer and that's why the high furnace of Sestao, lords of the PNV, has had to close; that's why. And you of this nuclear and essential question that has caused the structural situation in which we are not saying a single word, because you have forgotten the left margin, because you no longer understand what the real needs of the workers are and you do not understand that if we really want to take care of our environment and our environment, we need to maintain and preserve Europe's industry, agriculture, livestock and transport. It is necessary and urgent that we take concrete action on this; you do not mention it and Citizens specifically attack it. In short, what makes no sense is that here in Europe, and in Spain in particular, we are killing our industry and our transport, agriculture, and so on, when Germany emits about 8 tonnes of CO2 per capita per year or China, which is the monster of CO2, emits about 9 or 10 tonnes of CO2 per capita per year. You see it's not that different? Spain, today, is broadcasting around 4. We have sacrificed ourselves, we have cut off the feet and hands of our farmers, of our industry, of our carriers to give it up to third parties who continue to pollute and who continue with the CO2 emission policies that we have renounced, and for this we have renounced our industry. We must take reasonable measures and not the unreasonable measures proposed here. The short-term measures are not enough, we must take structural measures, so please take them already. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u209	Thank you, Mr. Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Redondo Calvillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u210	Thank you, President. I want to say one thing before I start my intervention. Mr Figaredo, the autarchy was an economic model of the 1950s, it would have to evolve. [[Applauds]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This motion cannot be more topical or necessary, although it could have won a lot if some of our amendments had been accepted. As you know, the prices of electricity, natural gas, petrol or diesel are generating a social alarm in Spain because every day, when we believe they cannot get worse, they are once again reaching record prices, greatly affecting the productivity of companies, competitiveness as a country and, of course, the economy of families, even if that is not the case in this motion. We have tabled amendments in two respects, amending and adding. With our amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4 we want the sector to be included in this possible agreement to mitigate the effects on the electricity price market; we call for a new status for hypertensive consumers of gas and electricity; a revision of the current tariff schedule which would entail a real possibility of managing demand, also for small consumers, not only for large consumers; and finally, a solution for those industries that have affected their exports by the sanctions imposed on Russia. But this is still insufficient, because we are facing an unsustainable situation of an energy emergency that needs exceptional and urgent measures in a clear direction. Tell me, what measures is the Government taking? How is the government relieving the Spanish? With the tax reform of the expert committee? According to Gregorio Izquierdo, this reform will increase the fiscal pressure by 50 billion, lead to a contraction in economic activity of six points of GDP and destroy a million jobs. And this is what the Director General of the Economic Studies Institute of the CEOE says that - I believe - it is reliable. Tax advisors and independent experts ask for tax rebates and say that it is not time to raise taxes, but to lower some. You know that there is a transport strike out there that is already causing shortages and that is going to get more and more every day. In Andalusia there are more than 280,000 agricultural, livestock, fishing and food industry productions which do not receive raw materials to produce, but which cannot produce their products either, and therefore cannot distribute to the 52 000 hotels and 35 000 food shops we have. Invoicing is falling and the most affected products are the basics such as milk, water and oil. This is stated by Sara's director, who manages more than two hundred small supermarkets in Córdoba. The headlines in my province four days ago were: 'Cordobese companies warn of the collapse of the transport strike and announce production stops in the industry'. There are no raw materials to produce and what is produced is left unchecked. Today's headlines of my people, the headlines of Pedro Sánchez, the ones you are getting are: 'The cold and furniture of Lucena are already studying the closure of companies and the return of ERTE', more than 4000 jobs would be affected by the situation between the lack of raw materials and the energy car. Do not get confused, with your poor management of the situation and of the war of Ukraine is not that you are going to literally charge the industry, it is that you are going to take forward also to the middle classes, and another thing not, but that should take your dream away from you. That is why we have proposed an additional amendment, which would give real relief to industry, but also to all the ultra-rightists, who, according to Mr Sánchez, are farmers, farmers, traders, taxi drivers, truck drivers, and so on, all those who do not applaud or praise the government. At this stage, some ultra-rightists will end up in those seats as well. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] In our amendment, what we are proposing is a clear tax reduction: the reduction of the value of electricity production tax for all consumers, the reduction of the excise duty on electricity 0.5%, the reduction of VAT to 4% in electricity, gas, heating and fuels, and the reduction of the excise duty on hydrocarbons, among other things. The State has the most scope to reduce prices immediately. Don't look elsewhere, that's where the resources are. On the one hand, it has a higher tax collection, as a result of the price nonsense that we all Spanish people suffer, not only industry, but, on the other hand, according to the latest report of the Institute of Economic Studies, improving the efficiency of Spanish public spending could result in savings of up to €60 billion, and this has already been done in 2019. Today, that amount could be even higher, because over the past year there has been a deterioration in the efficiency of public spending. So, Your Honor, we don't ask so much. Lower taxes on fuels, electricity, gas, stop infusing the government, and not so much aid will be needed. Learn to manage, what resources you have, and you won't need so many grants, although we already know that you like that of distributing aid to you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Redondo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Soler Mur has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that this debate arises here because we are experiencing an illegal, unjustifiable and unjustifiable war, initiated by a dictator who has already caused thousands of deaths, thousands of injuries, ten million people who have had to leave their homes and three and a half million who have had to leave their country. Therefore, my first words must be of solidarity, support, affection and affection with the Ukrainian people. [[Applauds]] We are talking about the economic consequences, as a result of this PNV motion, on the increase of energy and, also, on the supply of raw materials. And I want to say that, only from the European Union, can we take political and economic measures that are effective, lasting and robust in combating this crisis. So what is the Government of Spain doing? On 2 March, the President of the Government, appeared here in Congress and announced the national response plan. Since then there has been a great deal of activity that is taking place. On the 5th the President met with the President of the European Commission, Ursula Von der Leyen, and spoke about energy, and the President highlighted Spain's efforts in renewable energy and the role that this can play not only for the supply of Spain but for the whole of the European Union. On 10 and 11 March, at the European Council, the need for concrete, urgent and immediate measures to limit energy prices, which the President of the Government had already requested at the European Council on 21 and 22 October, prior to the invasion of Ukraine, was expressed on Spain's fundamental proposal. After that, the president met on the 13th with all the presidents of the autonomous communities who unanimously supported the strategy by the government. Since then, the President of the Government has been going through the countries of the European Union to ensure that at this European Council to be held this week - 24 and 25 - the price of electricity gas is decommissioned, that the price is limited on the markets and, ultimately, that effective measures are taken that are important and that, depending on them, the Council of Ministers next Tuesday 29 March can develop the national response plan. So, first, Europe, and then, the Council of Ministers. What have we done so far? It is true that electricity prices have been rising since before. The electricity tax - something fundamental, without its support in addition - has been lowered from 5,1 % to 0,5 %; the electricity production value tax has also been suspended by 7 %; VAT has been reduced from 21 % to 10 %; EUR 900 million has been set aside for auctions to reduce energy charges by 80 %; the electricity efficiency of companies has been contributed to 300 million and 200 million for long-term business contracts; the most vulnerable consumers have been protected from being cut off from unpaid energy and the bill is cheaper; a Patch has been put on a Renewable Energy Loss; also a law, the RECAPI law, to take advantage of this country's strategic reserves. All this, gentlemen, has been done without the support of the PP and without the support of VOX, who propose here that measures be taken, propose that taxes be lowered, but that when the government approves them - it has been four real decrees to lower energy prices that have been approved here - it does so without the support of the PP and without the support of Voz. [[applause]] Because you really think that every crisis in this country is an opportunity for you, that the worse it goes to Spain, the better it can go to you. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you say that this is the worst possible government at the worst possible time, but you are the worst possible opposition that has ever had any government. [[Applauds]] As long as you still do not work for the Spaniards - as happened with the COVID, because the government had to carry out only the ICOs and ERTEs that protected more than 100,000 companies and 3,600,000 workers - this government, which has no solutions for everything, will continue to work on everything to find solutions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Soler. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. This isn't just war, Mr. Soler Mur, this is ancient. More than three and a half years after his arrival in Moncloa, the government's record of industrial policy is desolating. The minister in charge is paralyzed after a mockery from which she tries to justify her inefficiency and that of other colleagues in the blue bank through a wide variety of pretexts to camouflage and justify the continuous and alarming fall of the weight of the industry in the domestic gross domestic product and in employment. Paulatinally, Spain is moving away from the EU average. Ladies and gentlemen, like the Basque Group and other parliamentary groups, I have also repeatedly denounced here, in this rostrum, a disturbing situation which, as reflected in the ten points of this motion, needs concrete and urgent actions which have a common characteristic: they are all within the reach of the Government, either through the Official Gazette of the State or through decrees and resolutions. That is to say, for emergency solutions, it is not necessary to go on a journey through Europe to seek support, to reform laws, to enable new budgetary appropriations, or to wait for what diagnoses, it is to attend diligently to the calls for aid that, repeatedly and without rodeos, have been making all the different industrial sectors and also the autonomous communities themselves, the case of Asturias, which more than a year ago formalized, with great support, a so-called Alliance for Industry that has resulted in a huge fiasco due to the incomparencies of the government of Pedro Sánchez and his autonomic counterpart, Mr Barbón, necessary cooperator in the industrial dismantling of the Principality. In short, I will support this initiative, which involves a whole motion of censure for the disastrous management of the ministries of Industry and Energy Transition that today have Spain, together with the rest of the Government, on the verge of socio-economic collapse. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u216	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after this morning's sitting, and all these days' sitting, this motion is a good review of the executive's outstanding tasks. The Government knows them, but sometimes it is good to remember the obvious. In the PRC we share most of the motion's proposals, but I miss a special mention to the industry in general, because they seem to want to include it in the same bag as the electro-intensive ones, which need specific treatment. This is very urgent, before they leave Spain and do not come back because in Cantabria they are at the limit, as it is also very urgent for the entire productive and commercial chain to end the transport strike. That is why it is essential to meet with the callers, because it is not understood that they do not represent them when there are thousands of carriers following them throughout Spain. They are also adding more associations that have been in place for years, although, of course, they do not say they are going on strike, but they say they have ceased their activity. With regard to concrete measures, yesterday I repeated a measure for small consumers, limiting the price of the first kilowatt hours of the invoice, which is a social measure and which is necessary to reduce consumption that is not essential in the circumstances in which we are. That is why I would also like to insist on a measure for all administrations, which is a plan to save energy consumption in the public sphere. As an example, I can put the public lighting, which in Spain is far superior to most European countries, or the waste of light and heating in many public buildings. Any amount to improve the situation, but the Government has to act on everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Finally, also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that I think what has already become clear at this point is that there is a majority in Congress that we think the government is not aware of what is happening on the street. There were some that we had said for a long time, but Esquerra and PNV, common partners of the Government, have already joined, and they are also aware that the Government is absolutely far from the reality of the street. When we have the country as we have - there's the issue of transporters, people can't put petrol, they don't know what's in the supermarkets, they're closing companies because they don't have the raw material, because they don't have the numbers with electricity, etc. - the government's response is that the president takes the Falcon, takes walks around, spends the days, spends the days and says they'll already take action. He announces a measure, then says otherwise, and creates chaos. We'll see, we'll talk on March 29. And on March 29th, what are you going to announce? That I don't know what day it's going to be put on, I don't know what's going on, that companies then ask for it, that citizens ask for it, and that never comes? And what do people do while they're at it? Well, it closes business and it doesn't come to the end of the month. But that's right. Guilt doesn't know who has it. Proposals are brought here, but if they are the government does not amend a GNP, do things, take the newsletter. But not that, because that is more complicated, we see that here today between the two partners have discrepancies. As long as you disagree, citizens do not arrive at the end of the month, shut down businesses, all transport is collapsing, and you see the president strolling through the different points of Europe and saying what great social work he is doing. And what do people do while they're at it? Not arriving at the end of the month? Is that what you do? So, the top line is that Podemos comes out and says he doesn't know how to solve Spain, but they tell the PNV, that they are the ones who govern the Basque Country, that solve the Basque Country. Hey, give solutions for the whole of Spain. Give solutions, which are government. When you're in the government, you rule, when you're in the government, you don't oppose the government...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u219	Mr. García, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u220	When you're in government, you have to rule. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u221	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u222	President, ladies and gentlemen, I left on. Last week we warned about what's going on now. We already said that three companies - Arcelor ACB and Sidenor - were closing or stopping their production by the cost of energy. Today, unfortunately, we can add more companies, we can add companies as tractors of the Basque economy, as the CAF or as Mercedes. And this is going to continue, so it is up to us to put a solution to it now, and a firm and determined solution. In politics one can act in two ways: by principle or by interest. Needless to say, we and we, the people of the independenceist left, believe that we must do so by principle, but at this point it would serve us until they act for interests, for their own interests, but act. Because if not, in the face of the growing climate of social tension, what we will see is what we are already looking at: to the liberal right, to the autarchical right or to the right turbocapitalism to brag as a cap in its cochiquera, even daring to dislate itself as the voice of the working people of Ezkerraldea, on the left bank. Accompany me anyone in this review with concrete data on what Ezkerraldea is, so as not to make mistakes as simple as the ones we have had to listen to here. In Ezkerraldea there are few field people, that is more in Meatzaldea and in Enkarterri, Encartaciones and mining area. Talking about Ezkerraldea's field people is, at least, a little strange. Ezkerraldea is more than that. Ezkerraldea is plural, it is true, but he is very aware of what the extreme right stands for. You are aware that the vizcaine oligarchy in Neguri, on the right bank, is very connected to the extreme right, that to the extreme right, to you, to Ezkerraldea - to you, to the lords of VOX in Ezkerraldea -, stands for the distinguished representation of zero representatives. You have zero representatives in Ezkerraldea; moreover, you know that you are not welcome, you know that you are not welcome, because when you come to Ezkerraldea you only do so for two reasons: by mistake or by provocation. They have no other business. Understand why you have no representation and why you are neither welcome nor will be. Because Ezkerraldea has memory, and has a working and anti-fascist memory, and there you don't fit, you don't have a hole and you won't have it, while Euskal Herria Bildu depends, however much you provoke some kind of sympathy, but you won't have a hole in Ezkerraldea. Focusing on the issue, I told them that we have to act, that I don't care whether they do it for interests or for principles because what people don't understand is that there is a president of a Basque electric company, for example, who wins 12,000 euros a day, which is as much as a milleurist wins in a year, and that that person, who wins 365 times more than the milleurist, is the one who puts the conditions on this government about what it can and can't do. And I say put the conditions in place, because when this government decided to implement a tax on the fallen profits from the sky, this director of a Basque company, Iberdrola, decided that we had to scream in the sky and press, and his initiative lasted six weeks. That was the government's pulse towards electrics, and that's a bad example. We don't just want to appear in this rostrum to make a wish for bad omens, but that's what it is if you don't do anything but lower taxes. Because lowering taxes is all it does is cut or thin the public coffers and then make policies of all kinds, social, educational, health care, etc. People need to know that gasoline, in 2019, cost 55 cents less than now, but that of those 55 cents less than now, what actually exists are 5 cents of taxes and 50 cents of profit for Repsol, Cepsa and other gasoline companies. Therefore, those who are taking the money are those who are preventing this Government from making policies that defend women workers. And they can do much more, they can de-index the gas from the energy pricing system; they can set a peak in the electricity price in the wholesale market that is approaching the 2021 rise; they can do specific measures like those that we are dealing with today, and that we will support to some extent, for electrically intensive industrial consumers; they can also make fuel bonds so that they do not have to be solemnly poor in order to be able to opt for some kind of aid; they can restore and extend the impact of the cut to the fallen benefits of the sky. Because the right has already taken sides, because the economic elites have already taken sides on the right, and because you will waste time if you try to appease the desire to amass the benefits of the right, because they, the economic elites, have decided that you are already expendable, so plant your face, make a shock plan, and defend the workers, those of Euskal Herria and those of any place in the Spanish State, because if not, we will have to continue listening to the spokesmen of chaos and the horror of fascism tell us here that they represent us above.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u223	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Cañadell Salvia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u224	Thank you, President. The energy price scandal is a problem of tremendous topicality that comes from afar. This high price, together with that of raw materials, is putting many companies in trouble. According to statements by the Minister of Industry, Mrs Reyes Maroto, carried out last November, were priorities that the government's agenda: industrial competitiveness and guarantee a competitive energy price. Unfortunately, the objectives have not been achieved. Regarding the price of light, they play several factors. The most structural is that of price formation in the wholesale market. As is well known, the price offered by gas-using plants greatly increases the price that we end up paying consumers, both industries and households. The change in the form of the wholesale price depends on Europe. What should be done is that electricity from hydroelectric, hydraulic and nuclear power plants, whose constructions are already amortised, receives a remuneration based on their production costs. On the one hand, the Government has proposed to the European Union to decouple the price of electricity from the price of gas, as well as to reduce the price of light in the wholesale market to 180 euros and to buy gas jointly between the different countries of the European Union. On the other hand, the Government has adopted a number of measures to lower the price of light, especially through the lowering of taxes. In our view, the measures proposed by the Government to the European Union and the lowering of the price of light through the lowering of taxes are measures that go in the right direction, but are insufficient. More action must be taken, such as the proposals in the motion by the Basque Nationalist Party, which is why we are voting in favour. And since we are talking about industry and as a Member of the Lleida demarcation, I cannot finish my intervention without referring to the serious situation facing the food industry, which is of great relevance in my territory and fundamental pillar during the crisis of the coronavirus, which is now suffering first hand from the shortage and the increase in raw materials prices as a result of the war, as well as the severe increase in other costs due to the increase in the price of energy and hydrocarbons, which seriously threatens the viability of many companies and family farms. The Government announces measures from next day 29, which we hope will be real and not be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u226	Thank you, President. On 24 February Russia began its special operation in Ukraine. Since then we have seen the light spraying all the records: March 8th, price of 544 euros megawatt/hour; between seven and eight in the afternoon, 700 euros. One month after the start of the Putin war, the Government has hardly implemented measures to address the hyperscale of energy prices. They announced a cap of 180 euros per kilowatt hour, but it has remained on a loose cable, like the rise of taxes to the big electrics. The first direct aid to the transporters, who have been emptied of the deposit of patience with the rise of the fuel, comes late, in the second week of unemployment: fund of 500 million euros. They should not have great confidence that they will be able to solve the problem when many of them have maintained the unemployment, which is beginning to have its domino effect. Danone has stopped its production and it will be followed by other companies. In crisis situations, therefore, urgent measures. Tens of thousands of consumers will become vulnerable because they cannot afford the light, despite the advice Josep Borrell gave to Europeans saying that we spend less; I wonder what time he puts the washing machine. Thousands of SMEs and self-employed are not going to resist and the small and large industry are also threatened. Seventy-five % of companies cannot have an impact on the price of products or services. More than a third is in loss and, separating the activity, it will be hundreds of thousands of workers who go to the street. And in the meantime, large energy companies are enriched by the fall in profits from the air, or we should say the fall in gas, a gas that if it comes from Algeria we will pay more because they will take the turn of this government in international policy towards the Sahara. They are meeting with all parties to reach consensus on solutions. Welcome to the meetings, but they're also late. On 3 September, in full price escalation, PSOE and United Nations Podemos announced the creation of a parliamentary forum to study light prices: it has not yet met. That same month a real decree was validated with various measures to adjust prices and help small traders to offer correct prices, prices that could keep industries and consumers in business: three months later this auction has not been held. Fets, don't talk. We vote yes because it is a way of saying no to the Government's inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u227	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u228	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, President. In the face of certain speeches between the dramatic and the guerrillas who recount ambitious measures to be taken in the face of the escalation of energy prices brought us by the war of occupation of Ukraine, one cannot help but think that in the background they are only the recognition of outstanding duties, of lists of what should have been undertaken already in the 1990s, and I am not referring to Mrs Sagastizabal's speech. Therefore, I understand that they are more part of the diagnosis of why today we find ourselves in the midst of a marabunta and inflation and prices triggered and insurmountable of energy. One cannot avoid thinking that, with regard to the list of measures proposed by the PNV in its motion - there are many that we share - although the speeches that I mentioned to them do not add up to nothing or an assumption of my guilt, many of them should have been applied for years, and we would surely be less dependent on satrapies and oligopolies. [[Applauds]] Let no one forget: There are many structural reforms that, for the sake of one's interests, or for the sake of others, have never been carried out, and now we are faced with the perfect storm, with an unsustainable increase in the price of raw materials and energy costs, which affects, unprecedentedly, final consumers and an industrial sector that already suffered multiple structural problems. Last week I received a letter, of which I read a fragment: 'I contact you again to tell you that from today the glass packaging industry is proceeding to closures of lines, and that, to follow the situation as hitherto regarding the increase of the price of the energy and the strike of the transport, will inevitably be followed by closures of furnaces next week'. They also sent this letter to the Minister of Industry on the 17th, and we wait for the 29th to give some answer: for the ovens will have already stopped, and so with so many sectors, many of them already mentioned. The situation is critical, and we do not doubt the goodness of the measures that Mr Soler Mur has announced, to which Esquerra has often given his support, but markets and prices show that they have been insufficient. In the face of a problem of such magnitude, it is necessary to seek solutions. That is why we welcome the PNV motion for rigourous, because, beyond populist pamphlets, this motion proposes concrete measures, many of which are well known to our parliamentary group. So let's apply how many measures help us control the symptoms, but let's learn the lesson. If we had built a more democratic and sustainable electricity system, we would be in a better position to deal with the price crisis, and if we did not direct the system towards this, this can be repeated and we will be rightly accused of negligence for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-23-CD220323.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mrs Sagastizabal, I understand that you want to put the motion to the vote separately by points. [[Consent]] That's how it's gonna be done. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
