ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's resume the session. Please take a seat. We begin with the opinion of the draft law on explosives precursors. To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already warned the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups, today I will be strict in the fulfillment of time. So when you're 30 seconds away, I'll let you know and when the time is up, I'll close the microphone. Therefore, I ask all of you, please be strict over time because I will close the microphone when the time is up. Thank you. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This item on the agenda is the draft law on explosives precursors. We have already commented on this at the time when we are considering it, and the fact is that the work that has been done in the relevant Commission and in the Commission must be highlighted. On the part of PeCAT we had a number of amendments which, as you will have seen, were aimed at improving coordination between the different police groups. As you know, the Mossos d'Esquadra have competence in the field of Catalonia and the amendments we tabled to this project at the time were designed to ensure coordination and to share information in this area concerning those substances that are purchased individually may be harmless, but which pose a risk to terrorist activities that may culminate in the mixing of these purchases. The truth is that we are positive about the project and we are also making some amendments aimed at fine-tuning the information sharing between the different security forces. We are left with some that we sincerely believe - they are the ones that are still alive right now - that could further improve the coordination between the Ministry of the Interior and the bodies of the autonomous communities as regards the coordination of police forces, forms, web pages, i.e. information to be given on these issues. That is why we maintain Amendments 22, 23 and 24 to this bill. Without further ado, ladies and gentlemen, we maintain these amendments by appealing to the need, on such a complex and cross-cutting issue as this, for coordination between autonomous communities and security forces - especially the Mossos d'Esquadra, which have the powers in Catalonia - to be as optimal as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u3	It wasn't that bad, Mr. Boadella, you've had plenty of time. Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u4	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. This bill sets a precedent for negotiation: it has been possible to agree on many. In our view, we have achieved a historic claim on a subject that is very sensitive to the powers of the State, as sensitive as the inspection of explosives precursors by the police of the autonomous communities. A claim that has cost a lot, we've been asking for skills for a long time. Obviously, the ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the ladies and gentlemen of the right and also of the far right have constantly denied it. The bench on the right has always denied it. So, we ask why so much fear. It seems that the ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE have been brave, so we think that such a serious matter would not be the subject. It really wasn't that serious because in almost two days an agreement was reached. Following the entry into force of the new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the Marketing and Use of Explosive Precursors, the current rule, Law 8/2017, obviously needed to be updated. The purpose of the draft Act on Explosive Precursors is to regulate the licensing system for the making available, introduction, possession and use of precursors of explosives restricted to individuals in Spain, as well as to ensure the proper communication of suspected abductions, disappearances and transactions of precursors of regulated explosives. It also includes the sanctioning procedure to be applied in the event of non-compliance... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u5	One moment, Your Honor, one second. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u6	It also includes the sanctioning procedure to be applied in the event of non-compliance with the provisions referred to therein. The Republican Group recorded the amendment to the whole that I myself defended here a while ago since the demand of various parliamentary groups was not met that we raise the imperative need to delegate the powers of inspection of explosives precursors to the police forces of the autonomous communities that have competence in the prevention and protection of citizens' security. So this function was left exclusively to the central authority alone. We believe that it is more than anything that makes the development of police activities on the ground very difficult. In particular, in the case of the Generalitat police, the cosde los Mossos d'Esquadra de Catalunya, which acts as an integral police force in the territorial sphere of our country, has repeatedly seen difficulties in accessing information to coordinating bodies in the field of counter-terrorism, putting its task of prevention and citizen security at serious risk in the face of such major threats as international terrorism. We believe that it is vital that, both from the point of view of administrative control and from the point of view of prevention and counter-terrorism investigation, the Mossos d'Esquadra de Catalunya cos can exercise the competence of inspection authority, is absolutely essential; the inspection authority is a historical claim of the autonomous communities. It is also a historic claim that we have transferred competences in the field of citizen security, I repeat. In fact, it is a huge anomaly precisely that the police forces that have this competence for citizen security - and therefore the ability to act on the ground and are overly prepared in this area - do not have access to databases and sufficient coordination in the area of counter-terrorism with all guarantees and tools. It is absurd that the police with these powers cannot fully deploy their potential because the State has always denied them these powers. Having the necessary information is absolutely vital to develop competition in citizen security at 100 per cent. The body of the Mossos d'Esquadra de Catalunya is a police force that is well prepared to carry out these functions, and has proved it a thousand times. Without going any further, the action and the immediate response to the attacks of August 17, 2017 show that it has contrasted solvency. Therefore, welcome be that the text of the law can be improved by incorporating a transactional that is not all that the Republican Group would obviously want, but it is clear that it substantially improves what we have had so far. That is why we have also maintained Amendment No 27 and have negotiated our Amendments Nos 26 and 28 with other parliamentary groups, in this case with the PSOE, the Union Podemos, the PeCAT and the PNV. We have withdrawn, as I said before, the rest of our amendments. We believe that it is a great achievement that the police of the Mossos d'Esquadra de Catalunya can have this power to inspect explosives precursors, because one cannot think otherwise. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u7	Thank you. Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, new transposition of European legislation into Spanish law, on this occasion on precursors of explosives, which are those chemicals that could be used in combination with others to make an illegal but simple homemade explosive; but this government, as we shall see later, is unable to transpose a single norm without introducing any discordant elements. Despite being legal products, such as ammonium nitrate used in fertilizers but mixed with diesel, it gives rise to nagolite, which is the simplest explosive used in mining and which has caused some of the biggest chemical explosions in history, such as that of the port of Beirut in August 2020, or oxygenated water or acetone or battery acid, used in construction, industry, pool cleaning or wind-modelling, in due percentages and mixed with other substances are precursors of explosives and can be used for the manufacture of artifacts. The jihadist attacks of recent years in Europe and the world have shown the need to raise the level of security and limit private access to precursors, whose controls had proved ineffective by not sufficiently preventing their easy acquisition. But if there is a nation that is suffering from jihadist and separatist terrorism like no other is Spain. Let's see. Ripoll's jihadist cell easily purchased large quantities of chlorine, sulphuric acid and acetone substances to manufacture 300 kilos of homemade explosives known as the'mother of Satan', whose build-up blew up on August 16, 2017 his Alcanar villa in Tarragona with several terrorists inside. The next day, members of the cell killed 14 people with a van and injured dozens who were walking through Las Ramblas de Barcelona. Nine CDRs were arrested while attempting to attack explosives in Catalonia, coinciding with the coup judgement on 1 October. Sulphuric acid, aluminium powder, industrial pickling, gasoline and paraffin were involved. They also had termite, a relatively easy to elaborate component that reaches high temperatures, giving it great incendiary power. Come on, peaceful people, really peaceful. [[Applauds]] In November 2021, the Civil Guard seized 350 kilos of potassium chloride in Reus, a substance used as an explosive precursor, denouncing its owner who was attempting to sell it illegally over the Internet. A recent report by the Civil Guard sees coincidences in the manufacture, manipulation and logistical aspects of explosive material and precursors found in 2019 in a series of ETA bars in France with the attack perpetrated on 30 July in Palmanova, Calvià, Mallorca, the last terrorist action with victims that ETA committed in Spain and that ended the life of two members of the Benemerita, one of them the son of my bank companion, Toni Salvá. [[Applauds]] The aim is to determine the identity of ETA militants related to terrorist actions committed on the islands in July and August 2009, but the prosecution is not very interested in pulling the thread, examples reflecting the importance of regulating explosives precursors. But what should be a purely technical legislative project, with contributions that improve and complete the text, has become, in order not to change, another transfer of the Government to the separatists, and it is that the amendments presented by the enemies of Spain have been welcomed by the Socialist Group, which has cooked a transaction with the Basque Nationalist Party in which it gives to the Mossos and the Ertzaintza the control and the inspection work of the precursors, which until now has been performed by the State, namely the Civil Guard and the Centre for Intelligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime, the Citco, integrated in the Ministry of the Interior as a national contact point. The separatists want to be them, not the State, who control the potential manufacture of explosive devices, similar to the gift of the PSOE with Navarra because of the PNV's demand for traffic with the Civil Guard. Always the PNV, always collecting its fruits. Not a day passed and the media echoed the news. Here you can see: 'Mossos wins the Civil Guard the inspection of explosives precursors'. [[shows a newspaper headline]] Another example: 'Sánchez gives Mossos and Ertzaintza powers of the Civil Guard on explosives inspection'. [[shows another deperiodic holder]] They want to expel the Benemerita from the territories by force to withdraw their powers, as they will do with the Army at Esquerra's request. We say that the inspection of the precursors should be controlled only by the Civil Guard Weapons Intervention and not by the Major Trapero. [[Applauds]] The bill is enacted under the provisions of article 149.1. 26 and 29th of the Spanish Constitution, which, let us recall, is sharp and confers on the State exclusive jurisdiction over the regime of production, trade, possession and use of explosives, as well as in public security, so that the resulting rule may be in breach of unconstitutionality. We only have to know what the cost of this new transfer of Sánchez to separatism was: new support? The general budgets of the auctioning state? Soon we will know, and the Spanish will speak, because in Spain, as in Europe, the time of the patriots has come. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u9	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we have a debate on which the Republican Left of Catalonia had called for acknowledgment by the plenary. It is an instrument that, in fact, allows the regulation of Congress and that Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya frequently uses in domestic laws, but also in other matters, to try to get some more prebenda from the government of Sánchez. Today we are here for that reason mainly. As you all know, the Precursors Act 8/2017, which was born as a result of the transposition of a 2013 regulation, is being amended. In 2019 this regulation was amended and then this bill was introduced, a bill that, as has been commented on here, is about explosives precursors, which are chemicals with which, being misused, they can manufacture homemade explosives. The example we have in the attacks in Brussels, Paris, Manchester or London, which in 2017 caused this legislative change. Without a doubt, we are all surprised by today's debate, and I say that we are all surprised because in May, when Minister Marlaska presented the draft law here, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya called for the return and, at that time, twenty-nine deputies - from the PNV, Esquerra, PDeCAT, BNG, that is, Mr Sánchez's partners - asked to return that draft on terrorism. And if that project can be discussed here today, it is precisely thanks to the votes of the People's Group. But what has changed during the process of this bill? It turns out that Esquerra didn't like the project at all, nothing at all, and the rest of the independence partners didn't like it at all, and now a simple amendment means that those of us who helped the government deal with this terrorism project can't vote for it today and they, who didn't want this bill, are going to vote for it today. [[Applauds]] For a simple amendment. And you will say: what did that amendment say? Your partners told you today, I don't have to explain it anymore, it's just that there's nothing more to say. An amendment to the fourth additional provision that states that an exclusive competence of the Civil Guard - such as that of arms and maritime control -, that of explosives, is removed from it in the autonomous communities. You have been well explained here today, gentlemen of the PSOE, you are withdrawn. I would also like to know whether section 14.3 of this law, which mentions the inspection authority, has been read out and that it will also be responsible for the sanctioning file. Does that mean they also give you the collection? When the PSOE spokesman comes in, I'd like you to say it. It's funny to me that they use this law precisely. Marlaska is the mess drawer - and never better said the 'disaster' drawer, in all the breadth and fullness of the word - because it again brings a project in which it hides itself from the Council of State and the Council of the Judiciary and puts us through the back door modifications that have nothing to do with it. The transposition of the Crime Financing Information Directive includes all the autonomous financing of the waste tax. And today they use this directive to take away a competition from the Civil Guard. Really, gentlemen of the PSOE, today, after listening to Mrs Carvalho criticise here the performance of the Civil Guard saying that the lives of people in Catalonia were endangered because the Civil Guard did not pass information, will you continue to keep that amendment with those gentlemen? You guys are going to continue to support this today, and you're going to give the explosive competition to the local police because the Civil Guard was doing it wrong? [[Applauds]] Is that what you're accepting here today, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE? Really, there are swallows they have, after listening to both the spokesman of PeCAT and the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. Then they'll say: it's a bubble. They make it very clear to them, a bubble like a simple compromise amendment. By the way, Mr. Legarda, I'm going to send you a message. You know I didn't ask for that. You know that you had an agreement only to ask for what you had reached in 2017 with the People's Party, and it is precisely the PSOE, to stealth with Mr Rufián, who presents that amendment to you in the paper, Mr Legarda. You didn't ask for that competition, you got a gift, and you came because Mr. Marlaska and Mr. Rufián negotiated that competition in the offices. In exchange for what? We'll never know, or we will. When the budgets arrive here, we will know in exchange what that simple modification of the fourth additional provision is made. [[Applauds]] I'm just telling you what's next. In the area of terrorism, the People's Party will always be and will always be. Today they are leaving with those who help the CoRs and who hide the actions of the CoRs; by the way, when the CoRs, Mrs Carvalho, were arrested, they had explosives precursors. Will Mr. Trapero now be the one to investigate the CDRs for explosives precursors? That's what they wanted, right? They weren't denigrating the Civil Guard. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. If they're going to try to take away more skills from the Civil Guard, they'll always have us against, like they're going to have us today. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u11	Thank you. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u12	Thank you very much, President. Today we are taking an important step - and I have already said this in the consideration of this project - towards the incorporation into the Spanish legal system of the new Union regulation on the marketing and use of explosives precursors, given the need to further restrict access to these substances and their mixtures and to strengthen controls following several terrorist actions - as has already been said - in Paris, Brussels, London and Manchester, and in accordance with the review mandate contained in the previous Union regulation on the same subject and which these General Courts have transposed into the current Law 8/2017, which is now being amended, and which is needed not only because of our membership in the Union and because of the primacy of Union law in the areas of its competence, in terms of the Treaties, but also - and this is decisive - because we will contribute to improving the effectiveness of the fight against terrorist violence and organised crime, which implies a safer area for the enjoyment of rights and freedoms, both within the Union and in the Spanish State itself. Ladies and gentlemen, from the draft law we are dealing with, I would like to highlight the one which, in our view, is a remarkable improvement that has been made during the course of its proceedings in the Paper and in the Commission in the principle of effectiveness through the strengthening of the mechanisms of collaboration and cooperation between the security forces and bodies under the Secretariat of State for Security and the police forces of the autonomous communities with competence in the field of public security, and also between the Secretariat of State for Security and the bodies of the autonomous communities on which those police officers are responsible. To this end, a new wording of the fourth additional provision, which has already been mentioned, on our amendment number 13, negotiated with others - as has already been said, PEcCAT, Esquerra and GrupoSocialista - which recovers the literality of what is in force on the issue in the current Law 8/2017, to which is added, in order to improve cooperation and collaboration, the possibility that the integral autonomous police can adhere to the annual inspection plans for explosives precursors, which means giving a letter of a legal nature to what has already been established since 2018 by the Ministry of the Interior in an instruction. This is also consistent with the training that these comprehensive regional police officers may receive for the inspection of explosives precursors, as provided for in article 25 of this bill, which no one has discussed. It is also congruent to give a charter of nature and to associate the integral autonomous police with the annual inspection plans with the Annual Inspection Plan of Precursors, which is the fundamental instrument for monitoring and coordinating the inspectorate's action and which, by the way, elaborates the CITCO, the Centre for Intelligence for Combating Terrorism and Organized Crime, on the basis of risk maps with information provided by the various security forces and bodies, among others, the integral autonomous police that have a permanent presence in the CITCO. Ladies and gentlemen - I am finishing, President - terrorism and organised crime are also a globalised reality in a globalised reality. The only possible security in the face of this reality is network security, involving all the autonomous police integrated in the task, since it is the territorial police in all their functionalities and are therefore essential for the prevention of the commission of illicits, especially those of greater gravity, which are precisely addressed by this harmonised regulation of precursors of explosives of the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u13	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u14	Thank you, President. This should be a law that will normally be passed by all parliamentary groups because it is a rule that concerns national security and that is related to a European regulation that - attentive, this is important - seeks to make it more difficult to repeat terrorist attacks like those that struck the old continent in recent years. Well, the Spanish Government succeeds in making a rule of these characteristics invocable. I'll explain myself. In 2013, the European Parliament adopted a Regulation laying down harmonised rules on the making available, placing on the market and use of substances likely to be used in the manufacture of home explosives. As a result, Spain adopted a law in this regard in 2017. Because of the terrorist attacks that we all know took place in Europe after those dates, there was a need to further restrict access to these substances. As a result of these terrorist actions, a new European regulation was adopted in 2019 on the marketing and use of explosives precursors, using the 2013 regulation to which I referred. The main objective of this bill is to transpose this new European legislation of 2019 and regulate the licensing system that allows the possession and use of explosives precursors among individuals and to ensure the communication of suspected abduction, disappearance or transaction of regulated explosives precursors and their sanctioning procedure in case of non-compliance. This bill, before the changes I will now be discussing, was submitted to the report of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, the Council of State, the Directorate-General of the Police and the Directorate-General of the Civil Guard, among others. The main aspects covered were: one, the need to have a licence; two, that police bases could be consulted upon the granting of a licence on criminal convictions and without the prior consent of the data subject; three, the prohibition on the granting of a licence on certain products, in particular, those without legitimate use by individuals; four, the approval of procedures capable of detecting suspicious transactions, based on the identification of all customers; five, the prohibition on the particular importation of precursors of regulated explosives; and, six, the regulation of the sanctioning regime with specific severe, light or very serious sanctions for economic operators, individuals, online markets or professional users. Well, to this draft, which was perfectly consumable and capable of being supported by the groups in this House, Esquerra tabled an amendment in its entirety. In a way, I saw it consistent that Esquerra presented an amendment to the whole of this draft. If we take into account the number of hours that the gentlemen of Esquerra spend with the lobbyist of the world of explosives, who is Arnaldo Otegi; who have Terra Lliure boys in their ranks, and who support the activities of the CoRs, it is consistent that Esquerra opposes a law that hinders the trafficking of explosives, because it is a law that makes life more difficult for his friends. Of course, in his amendment Esquerra made very serious accusations to the state - so as not to change - and I will quote Esquerra Republicana textually, with forgiveness. Attention, gentlemen of the Government, to the framework that the Podemos Group has bought - the Podemos Group, what are we going to do! - the Socialist Group and the Government of Spain; attention to Esquerra's statement: The Police of the Generalitat, Mossos d ́Esquadra, which acts as an integral police in the territorial sphere of Catalonia, has repeatedly seen difficulty in accessing information and coordinating bodies in the field of anti-terrorism, putting at serious risk its task of preventing citizen security in the face of threats as important as international terrorism. In other words, Esquerra says that the Government of the Generalitat is hampered by access to security data, and they insinuated for a long time what conspiracy theory of nationalism; conspiracy and nationalism, forgiveness for pleonasm. They said that the Government of Spain had made all the security tasks of the Mossos d ́Esquadra difficult, and you buy this and accept the amendment. That is to say, the party that met with the ages to put bombs all over Spain, but not in Catalonia, comes to give lessons on collaboration with anti-terrorism. You understand some very interesting products when it comes to adopting amendments! What a normal Government would do in these circumstances would be to isolate these types of parties and their violent environments and to agree with those with whom we will seek an effective fight against terrorism and not with those who are going to eat with terrorists. That would be normal. Well, no. After all this, the Government not only does not isolate Esquerra, but agrees with Esquerra an amendment that illegally cedes a competence for State security that is exclusive to the central government. Because what you do is that you consider inspection authority in the same terms as the state security forces and bodies to the organs of the autonomous communities competent for public security. Public security is not the same as state security. It's not the same as this lady says, because this lady is not a security expert. If they start throwing out CDRs that throw Molotov cocktails, assault and trample cars, break glass, storm shops, take hams...!Experts in citizen safety? Anyway. This is unacceptable and prevents us from voting in favour of this rule that you bring here. It is very sad that the Government of Spain makes the insult and the grave accusation against the public servants of the State profitable. It is very sad that the Spanish Government, instead of defending those who work for State security, rewards the insult and betrays the loyal one. What a pity a government that really - and we see this day by day - does not care anyone! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u16	Thank you, President. First of all, I have to tell the spokesman for Citizens who surprised me that in order to talk about terrorism, you should talk about those who steal hams. Prototypical profile of a terrorist. It's the height of demagogy. Turning to the issue we are discussing today, we have incorporated a 2019 European Union regulation which, although it was mandatory to transpose in February 2021, has not been incorporated into Spanish legislation until now. Today we will pass a bill that tightens the requirements for the purchase of those known as explosives precursors. The aim is to put an end to the lack of control over the marketing of these products that had emerged from the attacks of August 2017, precisely in Cambrils and Barcelona. The terrorist cell that committed them had produced in a village in Alcanar, Tarragona, hundreds of kilos of triacetone triperoxide after acquiring large quantities of these chemicals without being detected by the security forces and bodies. It is precisely the law that we adopt today that brings a new paradigm of network security that collaborates not only with Europol and with the different autonomous police, but also with the citizenry. It also helps to increase collaboration with companies marketing explosives precursors; I am referring to pharmacies, hardware stores, large shopping malls, gardening establishments or pool maintenance companies. Therefore, the powers of the State security forces and bodies are not being curtailed, but we are facing an expanded conception of citizen security. The text that we approve today distinguishes between two kinds of precursors: on the one hand, the restricted ones, those that to be acquired require a special license; and, on the other hand, those called notifiable ones, which can be bought without that authorization, but whose marketing is subject to special controls to identify the mechanisms of purchase. In this sense, companies operating online, e-commerce, will have to communicate to the Centre for Intelligence Against Terrorism and Organized Crime, the CITCO, under the Ministry of the Interior and that it will remain the one that centralizes all the information - therefore, as I said before, the competences on the trade of explosives precursors are not curtailed - whenever they carry out such a commercial operation. The text we are approving today finally transposes the European regulation of 2019 and covers five cases of suspicious customers: firstly, that they do not clearly indicate the use they want to give to the product they buy; secondly, that they are unfamiliar with this substance; thirdly, that they buy combinations of products with unusual concentrations for their daily or industrial use; fourthly, that they are reluctant to explain their professional status, and, lastly, that they insist on making payment with unusual methods, such as cash. By the way, one of the first steps taken by the Meloni Government is to remove the ceiling for cash payments. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not help citizen security; on the contrary, it does not generate more security, but more impunity for the mafia. In short, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos, I would like to say that we will support the text as it was agreed during the paper, because we are satisfied with the result. But I do not want to end without referring to what has happened in Italy. VOX's spokesperson was talking about patriotism. Patriotism ends where the mafia begins and Italy's new government is just the institutionalized mafia. We are well aware of the works of Roberto Saviano and his famous novel Gomorra, brought to both cinema and television, the links of the Italian mafia to the Russian mafia, the Albanian mafia and the mafia. [[rumors]] A century after the march on Rome of Mussolini's National Fascist Party today reaches power one of its adherents, Meloni, who, as we know, was at Masses dedicated to the fascist dictator. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: It has been voted for]] What hides a postmodern fascist ideology based on hate speech is precisely the underground channels of Italian politics, the cloacas of the Italian mafia that well portrayed Leonardo Sciascia regarding the Sicilian mafia and Roberto Saviano regarding the Neapolitan mafia. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: In the ballot box, in the ballot box]] And the worst is not this. Hannah Arendt said about the banality of evil that the problem is not in committing evil, but in its daily normalization by the perversion of the system. It is not in this that only VOX remains, but VOX has been the only party that supports the banality of evil. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: What a Democrat!Democracy system!]] We know that they share ideology with the Italian fascist party, as they have expressed here. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u17	Your Honor, one second. I beg you to remain silent, please. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: President, to the question, to the question]] All right, but it is repeatedly interrupting the debate. I beg you, Mr Espinosa, to remain silent. If you want to take the floor, tell me the article and I will attend you conveniently or not, but I am already asking you, please, not to interrupt the speaker any more in the debate. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: To the question!- Rumors]] Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u18	He said the Italian fascist party is an Italian version of narcopolitics. We know that VOX shares ideology with Meloni's party - he has expressed it -; it remains to be seen whether he also shares the hidden sources of funding. That would be a patriotism exercise on the part of Mrs. Olona. What are the building papers? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u19	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u20	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make two points today. The first is a great memory for the little ones who are waging the greatest of their battles in hospitals, for our children with cancer. [[Applauds]] The second is to allow me once again to begin my intervention in defence of this law, which puts at the centre of the debate and aims to increase our security as citizens of this country, condemning the murder of three women, all of them citizens, who were killed only because of being a woman; condemning gender-based violence, in which the victims are women simply because they are women. They were murdered for being a woman. [[Applauds]] I also show my revulsion to those flag machistas in the bracelet and any others who, from their privileged position of cowardly machitos, dare to attack a woman killed by being a woman and her orphan children. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on explosives precursors is tremendously simple. It is the typical law - it has already been said here - with which everyone, everyone, we should agree, as with which we must all cross the street when the traffic light is green. This law replaces a 2007 law, which was voted by all the parliamentary groups in this house; take note, Mrs Vázquez, of all the parliamentary groups. Its purpose is to improve public safety, with the aim of regulating the licensing system for the making available, introduction, possession and use of precursors of explosives restricted by private individuals in Spain, as well as ensuring the proper communication of suspected abductions, disappearances and transactions of precursors of regulated explosives. And it does so by improving the control system in the acquisition of explosives precursors. That is to say, with this law we provide better mechanisms for our authorities, our forces and security forces, to exercise inspection and control actions over the total supply and acquisition chain of all substances that can be used in isolation, combined or manipulated in the production of explosives. In addition, individuals are prohibited from introducing explosives precursors regulated from third countries, as well as economic operators authorised for the acquisition have to justify the motivation in each acquisition they make, i.e. they must justify what they are to be used for - for what purpose - and when they are to use the substances they intend to acquire. All personnel in the precursor handling chain must have received training and be informed of the implications and obligations of such manipulation. And, I say, who can disagree with this? What arguments can any political party that had already voted in favour of this law in 2017 say that we do not increase control over those substances with which terrorist acts can be committed? Ladies and gentlemen, the usual. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they argue that they do not support increasing citizen security on the basis of a lie, because they are liars. Nothing new, by the way. They lie about removing powers from the police and the Civil Guard because we say that we have to allow greater coordination with the autonomous police. It is not true that neither the police nor the State security forces nor the CITCO are deprived of a single attribution or competence. By the way, the CHICO, the one you are talking about, has approved and given its approval to the transaction you criticize. The professionals of this have given their approval, but you do not; it is that you know more about all this. [[Applauds]] They lie, ladies and gentlemen, because they are in favour of coordinating with any police force and security corps in any foreign country, but they are against - because of their phobia to reach agreements - coordinating with the Spanish police, that is, with the police of the autonomous communities, because they hate the Spanish police and not the foreigners. Coordination with the foreigner yes, but not inside. They support the exchange of information and collaboration at all levels, except with the regional police. They lie because it's their way of acting. Pay attention, Mrs Vázquez, Mr Calvo, Mr Díaz-el Mr Díaz is gone; you have been commissioned by a small piece of paper!Perhaps even the papers have not been read - there is one thing called a hemerotec. It was in 2013 when the European Parliament -2013 - Regulation on the marketing and use of explosives precursors was adopted. In 2017 in this Parliament, all parliamentary groups, including the People's Party, passed the law before it. In 2018 the technical instruction that develops the law already established on its page 7 - take note -: Organs of the autonomous communities competent in the field of public security that have autonomous police will be able to adhere to the annual plans of inspection in the field of explosives precursors in the terms and obligations that the state security forces and bodies establish - ergo, National Police and Civil Guard -, according to the provisions of the law of 2017. Mrs Vázquez, do your homework, 2017 law, signed by M. Rajoy; I repeat, M. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Then, ladies, lie, lie. [[Noting the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] This transactional is a short and stick, a copy and stick of a technical instruction based on the law signed and approved here by M. Rajoy. Then you're a liar, you're liars. [[Mrs. Vázquez Blanco: This comes from Marlaska.-Protests.-Applause]] So clear: they are based on lies. [[Applauds]] The police and the Civil Guard do not lose a single attribution; moreover, the police and the Civil Guard agree to carry out a coordination that allows this country, Spain, to have greater control over all the substances that can be used to carry out terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u21	Your Honor, please go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u22	Who can be against this? In 2017, no one. Today, as the Socialist Party governs in coalition, who is against it? The right, as always. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u23	Thank you. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco asks for the floor]] Let's see, Your Honor, I think if... yes, yes, Your Honor, I've already heard what you've said, but if by that term we had to interrupt the sessions every time it's said... we'd probably have to interrupt it every day several times, every day several times. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco utters words that are not perceived]] [[rumors]] [[applause.-Rumores.-Mrs.Vazquez Blanco: I ask you to read a paper. I ask you to read the instruction.]] Sit down, Mrs. Vazquez, you called her to order for the first time. He called her to order for the first time. Sit down, please. Sit down, Your Honor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u24	We continue with the point relating to the direct and single reading of the bill amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. I would like, at this moment, to welcome the President of the Foral Community of Navarre, who is with us together with part of her team. Welcome, President. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u25	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I also greet the President of the Community of Navarre and her Finance and Spokesperson Counsellor. Indeed, as the President said, this morning we are going to defend the draft law approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, against which, as you know, the entire VOX parliamentary group has tabled an amendment, to which I shall refer a little later. In particular, on 23 August the Council of Ministers adopted this draft law approving the economic agreement and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are in compliance with what has been agreed between the two administrations. It is an agreement that seeks to adapt the convention to the new changes in the tax law of our State and to comply with the provisions of the Navarro convention itself, which states that when the tax legislation of the State is reformed or new tax figures are introduced, the Navarro convention must be adapted to the new times. This is, therefore, the sixth amendment to this convention in the democratic history of our country. The last amendment was made in 2015, when this rule was adapted to the developments that had been introduced in the state tax system, incorporating several taxes that were created in the period 2011-2014. Since that amendment, developed by the People's Party Government, there have been changes in our legislation that require the adequacy of the convention. Before moving on to these developments, I would like to briefly outline some data that we in the Executive consider very positive in relation to our commitment to the autonomous communities in general and, in this case, to Navarra in particular. They know that from the extraordinary fund of 13,486 million that we directed to the autonomous communities and to the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, as well as to the rest of the outlying communities, Navarre received 192.9 million euros. Similarly, Navarra SMEs have benefited from direct aid amounting to 67.6 million, and from the extraordinary VOCID fund of 16 billion Navarra also received EUR 175 million. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that always in this Parliament and also in the Government we have tried to ensure that throughout the country - and, in particular, also in this autonomous community - we are able to deal with the consequences, both of the pandemic and of the economic effects of the war in Ukraine. With regard to European funds, the multiannual financial framework 20212027 already had the capacity to provide Navarre with 112 million cohesion funds. Similarly, it has already received 359 million from the recovery plan and the REACT, the special European Pandemic Response Fund, will receive 147.8 million euros from the resources of 2021 and 2022. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important that we pool in this Parliament the need to go hand in hand together so that as soon as possible we are able to overcome the different impacts that as a generation we have been forced to face. And if for something is known Navarra, in addition to its people, its history or its excellent gastronomy, it is because it is an innovative land that is able to pose many of the lines that at the moment are the vanguard of the recovery plan, and I am referring to environmental projects, for example, the project to adapt the flood risk in the middle stretch of the Ebro River. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, just to give an example, but there is also the project for the construction of the new headquarters of the Museum of Sciences University of Navarre. I am referring to a whole series of initiatives that are also tractors throughout the country, as is the case, for example, with many of the PERTEs in which Navarra presents itself with regard to state-of-the-art health, agri-food chain, renewable energy, renewable hydrogen or storage. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have the capacity today to discuss and deal with this amendment to the whole of which the VOX Group has put forward through all the joint initiatives that we are developing and which, of course, benefit Navarra, but also the whole State. We could also talk about those issues that have to do with the electric vehicle PART or some of the flagship projects, such as the National Center for Industrialization and Robotics, or the leadership of this region, as I said, in the Supplementary Agri-Food Plan. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that during the whole process of the convention the commitment that we have shown both administrations is firm and reflected in this reform that we are presenting to you today; a firmness that is a reflection of that unequivocal will that the Executive has with the State of self-government and that it also finds a counterpoint, as it could not otherwise be, in the amendment to the whole that the VOX Parliamentary Group has submitted to this draft. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the amendment does not surprise us; moreover, we thought that something would be wrong if we had had the support of the extreme right in defending the autonomic model. But I am not going to devote much time in this intervention to those who want, once again, to question the autonomous state, a state which is synonymous with the welfare state, which supports the rights of citizens or the system of democratic representation, and which, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely faithful to the constitutional rule which protects us all, a rule which reflects the uniqueness of Navarra's relationship with the whole state, a mandate, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, constitutional, and basically does so in terms of the specificity of its fiscal regime, which is based, as you know, on the outlaws. I would therefore like to express my rejection of your amendment, in which you refer to the administrative structure of this autonomous community from the Basque provinces and Navarra. It seems to me a lack of respect for the constitutional institutions of this country and also for the Basque and Navarro citizens, who find in the autonomous model the most valid of the ways they have for coexistence and development between Spaniards. Stop facing territories, ladies and gentlemen. If you pursue unity, stop facing territories. I will take up the issue that brings us to this morning and I would like to point out that the bill is part of this overall framework for modernising the tax system. The aim is to introduce taxation for the twenty-first century and to do so with the territories that have a special agreement and also with all the autonomous communities, as you know, in line with state legislation and also with the incorporation of some of these singularities in the model of autonomous financing. That being the case, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to introduce the following new taxes into this amendment: the first, adjustment of the tax on certain digital services; the second, tax on financial transactions; and the third, taxes on landfilling and co-incineration of waste. Also with this bill are introduced the points of connection that determine in each case which is the tax administration competent to demand the payment of VAT under these special regimes, a point of connection that revolves around the inspection competence that the convention itself assigns in general in the field of value added tax. As regards the tax on certain digital services, competition for payment of this tax is allocated according to the place where digital services are provided, i.e. it will be determined on the basis of the location of the users. With regard to the financial transaction tax, the point of connection for the payment of this tax is based on the location of the head office of the entity whose securities are transmitted. In both tax figures, the inspection competence is assigned according to the tax domicile of the taxpayer. In the landfill, incineration or co-incineration waste deposit tax, the point of connection shall be based on the location of the landfill or the installation of the incinerator at which the waste subject to the tax is delivered. We have also introduced into the Economic Convention the elements for the single VAT window for electronic commerce, which means modernising and simplifying the tax. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we also align this initiative with the impetus the European Commission is giving to reform the VAT on cross-border e-commerce and to simplify the current system and make it compatible in a globalised world with the existence of a socio-economic environment that is also increasingly digital. It responds to the challenge that the institutions face in dealing with this era of digitisation, so that the new VAT trading system generalizes the principle of taxation at destination, establishing that these transactions will be subject to VAT in the Member State of arrival of this commodity or of establishment of the recipient. There is no doubt that the issue poses a challenge, that of preventing employers from having to submit VAT returns in each of the Member States and, therefore, it is allowed to opt for the single window system, whereby employers and professionals will be able to submit a single declaration or settlement for all e-commerce operations carried out in the different Member States of the European Union. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is the package of tax measures that we modernise and adapt and which also present a development challenge for a taxation of the 21st century. I would like to conclude this statement by publicly expressing my appreciation and respect for the President of the Foral Community of Navarre, Mrs Maria Chivite, the entire Navarra government team and its outside institutions for their sincere willingness to negotiate this agreement, for the firmness in the search for the best possible agreements and, ultimately, for always trying to incorporate measures to improve the welfare of shipwrecks and shipwrecks and also to contribute to this engine of innovation and impulse throughout Spain. In this spirit of seeking consensus, it is where democracy and the model of the autonomous State lies and also the very objective of creation and constitutional compliance. It is a model in which we have all the sensibilities and in which all the territories that make up Spain - I mean, of course - have room, a model that we all have to update and also continue to develop, fundamentally, because citizenship demands that we permanently adapt the types of relationship between all the administrations. We must face with our hand these new challenges of the welfare state in the coming years. We have to face together from a pandemic to the economic consequences of the war and also the whole modernization project in which our country is currently leading political action. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you all to continue to open the path that the constitutionalists have left us to continue building this Spain of the future. I invite you not to let us be carried away by those mermaids of intolerance or the biased vision of what our country is, to see diversity, which is precisely the greatest wealth, and to have the ability to find ourselves in what unites us. A flag that stirs up confrontation or fear among the citizens of one or another autonomous community is a bad path that only leads to noise, conflict or disunity. I hope that the example of negotiation of this convention between Navarre and the central Government will also be a guide to all the negotiations that the future requires and that citizens demand. You'll always find this executive working on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. An amendment to the full refund of the above-mentioned bill has been tabled. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u27	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Foral Community of Navarre, the VOX Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to the full return to the Government of the draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. My parliamentary group has opposed its direct processing and single reading because we believe that, although the Constitutional Court has endorsed the use of this special procedure for this type of legislation, it is no less true that nothing prevents the use of the ordinary legislative procedure. A procedure is being used to allow the plenary in a single debate to approve an initiative without having to go through the previous steps of the Commission and the Commission. This fact has been unanimously criticised by the doctrine, an objection which we share in its entirety, in so far as it imposes a severe restriction on the legislative powers of Members and groups, and results in the exercise of the legislative function of this Parliament. In this sense, the House's activity is limited to a single examination and vote on the initiative taken, so that the condition on the power of debate and parliamentary discussion is clear, to such an extent that some authors argue that the use of this procedure makes the House a mere body of ratification or rejection, restricting its own deliberative capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to pass a law of which we have no more information than that derived from its own text, because once again the debate has been stolen from this Parliament and any explanation has been avoided as to the technical aspects of the proposed reform, its economic and social impact, as well as the calculation of its contribution to the Navarra Foral Community. The equations and variables to be taken into account for the calculation of the foral contribution reveal a mathematical maze of impossible understanding for ordinary citizens. On June 7, 2018, the newly appointed Minister of Finance, Maria Jesús Montero, said publicly that the issue of the Basque quota, on which she had shown reluctance in the past, must be transparent; she said that the autonomous communities had had manifestly insufficient resources in recent years, and she advocated, with regard to the Basque quota and the Navarra contribution, why it is clearly explained how their calculations are carried out. Literally he said: 'It has to be explained transparently how calculations are made. It has never been fully explained how the services provided by the State are valued. It is important that it is taken into account at this moment when we live.' Where is that transparency, Minister? Again, opacity, opacity and opacity. It is the most opaque government in Spanish democratic history and it is not acceptable for members of the Congress of Deputies to ignore the tricks, traps and some falsehoods contained in the law that we are discussing today. [[applause]] Minister, we want light where you want darkness. Ladies and gentlemen, for this new amendment of the economic agreement with Navarre - and it is the sixth, as the Minister has already said - the Government is delegating new powers to the outside community in tax matters, extending in various ways the assumptions that fall under its competence, some as relevant as allowing the region to manage VAT on electronic commerce and so-called Tobin and Google fees. In doing so, the Government is delving into the serious asymmetries between the common system and the foral regime, which in turn involve significant inequalities between the Spanish and grant unjustified financial privileges to those subject to the foral regime. In the face of this, VOX proposes a State at the service of the unit of Spain in which there are no differences between regions or between Spaniards depending on the place in which they reside or work. On the contrary, it is necessary to strengthen links between Spaniards and ensure equality between them in order to ensure the prosperity, coexistence and well-being of our homeland and to achieve a modern State in which there are no eighteen different legal systems. [[Applauds]] It is clear that the persistence of alleged regional historical rights covered by the first additional provision of the Constitution, which translates into the existence of a peculiar fiscal regime, only deepens the inequality between the Spanish. It is therefore necessary to abolish legal privileges such as the one constituted by the economic agreement, which in the present case involves opposing the processing of this bill which postulates its updating. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is also a further sign of the inconsistency that characterizes the Spanish left. In November 2017, the current Minister of Finance and Public Service, Maria Jesús Montero, asked the then Minister, Mr Montoro, when she was a Finance Advisor of the Board of Andalusia, who will end the outlaw privileges, and literally demanded that she: 'Address a recalculation of the Basque quota and the Navarra contribution, so that the recognition of their outlaw rights do not translate into unjustified financial privileges'. [[Applauds]] Obviously, the Minister's request today did not provide for the future government of her party to rest in the PNV and EH Bildu. Alain Cuenca, director general of the Institute of Fiscal Studies and secretary of the committee of experts for tax reform, already in 2017 denounced to the Ombudsman the unconstitutionality of the system, and stated literally the following: 'The calculation of the Basque quota presents errors, errors and invented data, and allows the Basque Country and also Navarre to receive money from the rest of Spain'. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution stipulates that 'all Spaniards shall contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure in accordance with their economic capacity through a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressive...'. This equality must be interpreted in accordance with article 14, which states: 'Spanish are equal before the law, without discrimination on grounds of nationality, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance'. Also in line with article 139, according to which: 'All Spaniards have the same rights and obligations in any part of the territory of the State'. [[Applauds]] Together with the principle of equality between all Spaniards, the principle of interterritorial solidarity set out in article 138 of the Constitution requires the State to ensure 'an adequate and fair economic balance between the various parts of the Spanish territory', which implies that 'the differences between the statutes of the different autonomous communities cannot in any case imply economic or social privileges'. Well, such rules are exceptions for the Basque and Navarra provinces with the first additional provision of the Constitution, a special law without comparison in comparative law, to which the tenor 'the Constitution protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories'. Ladies and gentlemen, asymmetries, which involve significant inequalities between Spaniards and privileges for those subject to the outlaw regime, have been repeatedly highlighted by both the doctrine and the national and European courts. Some examples that this is a privileged system for Navarre are as follows. First example: de facto separated marriage with two minor children. The husband resides outside the Community of Navarre and the wife with the children in Navarra territory. If the children are dependent on him, it shall be understood that the husband also resides in Navarre for tax purposes, article 8.3 (b) of Law 28/1990. Second example: marriage that opts for joint taxation. The wife usually works and resides in Logroño, has annual gross salaries of 45 000 euros and her liquidated base for the purposes of IRPF is 27 000, according to her personal circumstances and the regulations of La Rioja. The husband usually works and resides in Pamplona, has an annual gross remuneration of 40,000 euros, that is, 5000 less than his wife, and his liquidated base, for the purposes of IRPF, is 29,000 euros, that is, 2000 more than his wife's according, in fact, to his personal circumstances and to Navarra's tax regulations. It is, therefore, for the Foral Community of Navarre to levy the tax, and this is determined by Article 9.2 of Law 28/1990. Third example: a company with a registered office and a prosecutor in Madrid and which temporarily operates exclusively in Navarre, although its social purpose allows it to do so throughout the national territory. Its total volume of operations in the previous year has exceeded EUR 10 million and taxed corporation tax in Navarre, Article 19.1(b) of Law 28/1990. Fourth and last example: wooden furniture manufacturing company with registered office in Santander. The furniture is manufactured in its Santander factory, but is varnished and packaged for distribution to retailers on a ship located in Pamplona and the latter accounts for approximately 12% of the total manufacturing process. An operation carried out in Navarre for tax purposes, Article 21. A) 1st of Law 28/1990. In short, a modern State needs to be at the service of unity and equality and should not be subject to different tax regimes for the different regions which, protected from a supposed historical origin, perpetuate inequalities between Spaniards, distort national unity and make some Spaniards better than others because they were born in one or another region. Thus, VOX understands that equality between Spaniards and national unity makes it necessary to oppose this regime and any of its renewals. On the basis of the foregoing, we call for the Government to be returned to the draft law which is the subject of this amendment. I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank God, in Spain, as in Europe, is the time of patriots. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the floor.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u28	Thank you. He has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for this I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Cerdán León. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a seat and remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to greet the President of Navarre, María Chivite, and the Minister of Finance and Spokeswoman of the Government of Navarre, Elma Saiz, who are accompanying us today. [[Applauds]] The draft law amending Law 28/990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre is now before these General Courts for debate and vote. This Convention is one of the highest exponents of the self-government of the foral community and has its constitutional support in the first additional provision, which states: 'The Constitution protects and respects the historical rights of the foral territories. The general update of such foral regime shall be carried out, where appropriate, within the framework of the Constitution and the Statutes of Autonomy.' Subsequently, article 45 of the Organic Law on Reintegration and Improvement of the Estate states: 'Under its out-of-court regime, Navarra's tax and financial activity shall be regulated by the traditional system of the Economic Convention'. The current economic agreement dates, as I have pointed out, from 1990 and was adopted by Law 28/1990. Throughout its structure and provisions it establishes the rules of tax harmonization between Navarra and the State; harmonization, Mr Del Valle. Following its adoption, the convention has been subject to various amendments, mainly to accommodate changes in the general tax system. Thus, so far, five updates have been adopted in 1993, 1998, 2003, 2007 and 2015, with the sixth amendment to the 1990 Economic Convention being presented today. As provided for in Article 6 of the legal text itself, the amendment of the convention and the harmonization of new taxes have been carried out in the same way as the procedure used for its adoption in 1990. This is, through the pact and the agreement between the parties and between the Government of Navarre and the Government of Spain through its representatives, in which it has come to be called the negotiating committee of the economic agreement. The bill we are discussing today incorporates the updates and amendments agreed upon in that negotiating committee in its sessions held on 20 December 2021 and 10 June 2022. Subsequently, these amending agreements were submitted for approval in the Parliament of Navarre, obtaining the support of the majority of the House in the plenary sessions of 31 March and 28 June 2022. Subsequently, the Council of Ministers, held on 23 August, adopted a bill amending Act No. 28/1990 of 26 December 1990 to implement the agreement between the two administrations. The updating of the Law approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre contains the amendment of twenty-eight articles, six additional provisions and seven transitional provisions of the Law on both tax and financial matters governing the relations between Navarre and the State, a large majority of them of eminently technical content, as has been broken down by the Minister herself. I would like to stress that in all the new taxes, taking into account the nature of these taxes, it has been agreed that Navarra should apply the same rules as the rest of the territories of the State, in order to ensure that there are no distortions between the different territories. The VOX Parliamentary Group is submitting an amendment to the full refund of the law updating and modernising the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. He argues that national unity and the modern State must be based on fiscal uniformity. I understand, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that the fiscal uniformity for you is not to pay taxes or, rather, to pay those who have less and do not pay those who have more. On the state of well-being, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we don't even want to talk about it. And they are crowned by comparing nothing more and nothing less than the agreement with self-determination. The first thing that comes to my mind, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, Mr. Del Valle, is to recommend that you read. As Azaña said, in this country more is written than is read, and so goes some. [[Applauds.-Protests]] You can make all the gestures you want, gentlemen. The first thing I want to tell you is that the convention that we are going to update has its origin in the 19th century and has lived in our day as a historical exception, has lived as a essence of the unity of Spain. This agreement, such as the Basque concert, is not understood in a framework of self-determination. On the contrary, it is part of what Spain, the real Spain, means, which you do not understand, not the one you yearn for, full of privileges for a few and calamities for the majority. Identifying the economic agreement with self-determination is something I'm sure your friends Sayas and Adanero won't share. And they dare to say that the convention deepens in profound inequalities between the natural and legal persons under the common system and those under the foral regime. It is clear that you speak from the deepest ignorance, but that to you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we know that it doesn't matter. They use lies, fake news and confrontation constantly as a way of doing politics; confrontation between territories and - most regrettably - between citizens. We - and now I speak to you as a Navarro - do not encourage anyone from another Spanish region to come to Navarra on the basis of turning it into a fiscal paradise, as you and your PP partners do; your PP partners in this new phase of fluid relations, as if they had not had them in the previous one. [[applause]] We encourage the investor to come to Navarre for having a strong educational, health and social system; strong, ladies and gentlemen. As I said at the beginning, gentlemen of the PP, read more. Read the convention and its harmonising essence, nothing secessionist. Read the agreement between the State and Navarre, which involves tax harmonisation, harmonisation based on criteria of equity and social and territorial cohesion, although you know little about that. Among other things, the agreement says that Navarra's fiscal pressure cannot be lower than that of the rest of the country in order not to pay less taxes, which you, along with the PP, are causing. You, along with the PP, are encouraging fiscal rebellion, trying to break the state. The fiscal war that you are opening, PP and VOX, between different territories fuels the conflict. But we already know that there both move like fish in the water. Faced with this law of updating the convention, which promotes harmony and the fiscal agreement, it is still curious that, among the justifications that argue to present the amendment to the entire return to the government the lordship of VOX, use article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, which stipulates that all Spaniards will contribute to the support of public expenditure according to their economic capacity through a fair system, inspired by the principles - and that is nothing - of equality and progressiveness. Really, Mr. Del Valle, is that the argument? I understand then that they are against removing the property tax. I understand that they voted against the extraordinary and temporary tax on electricity and banks by mistake. [[Applauds]] It must be because something does not fit between their facts and the justification they argue. And, if anything, they continue with their arguments against the convention and add: 'The Spaniards are equal before the law, without any discrimination on grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance'. You, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, have the most exclusive and xenophobic speech we have heard in Spain since the end of the dictatorship. You have to have little shame for a party like yours to use these kinds of arguments. Have some respect for the rules that concern us all and for this House. In short, have some respect for the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u30	Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Member, the one you possibly write and don't read is you. I've been reading my whole life because of my profession as a lawyer for a public administration and a public official. [[Applauds]] And I can tell you that the whole amendment has nothing that can be reprehensible in the sense that you have said, leading us to call us xenophobes and I don't know what else, that I don't know what it has to do with the subject of the Navarro convention. Here what is involved is the real inequality that exists. There are autonomous communities that are subject to a common system, in which it is the State that dictates the limits in both assigned and own taxes, that is, how far they can go, and there are two autonomys that have their own system, in which there is opacity. We do not know how the Basque quota is calculated and we do not know how the Navarra contribution is calculated. [[Applauds]] When the minister was a finance adviser to the Junta de Andalucia, she told Mr Montoro that it produced inequality and that there could not be that opacity in the calculation of the Basque quota and the Navarra contribution. Of course, it is very easy, when you are in an autonomy where you are seeing that there are inequalities, to ask the minister of duty that there be no inequalities, and, just when the next year they appoint her minister, to say that they will fix it because they will do everything with transparency. And he insisted on transparency. He said: Let's be transparent, everyone will know how to calculate the Basque quota and the Navarra contribution. Have any members of this House been informed of how the Basque quota is calculated, since the amendment of the law was approved in December? Or have any members of this House, when today we are discussing the amendment of the Law of the Economic Agreement with Navarre, been informed of how the Navarra contribution is calculated? There's no one here to find out. [[Applauds]] I do not know where the transparency which this Government presumes is; by the way, the Government which, as I said before, is the most opaque in the history of democracy, with more than one thousand two hundred resolutions unanswered by the Transparency and Good Government Council. I don't know what they're bragging about. [[Applauds]] And we have tabled the amendment as a whole and we have opposed direct and single reading because the debate in this Parliament is being stolen once again, because nothing prevents it from being handled by ordinary procedure. The Constitutional Court has upheld that it is treated in this way - it has endorsed it - but it does not prevent it from being treated by ordinary procedure. And it is not a receipt that we do not have any information, that we are presented the text of the bill as all documentation. When you ask about those formulas that come to the end of the text on the calculation of the contribution to know on what basis and where they have the economic reports that endorse it, you laugh at us and don't give them to us. And when we ask in writing, they send us to the ministry's website, to the transparency portal, and there's nothing, there's nothing. [[Applauds]] Where is Mrs Montero, that of Andalusia, who claimed that transparency?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u32	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u33	Yes, President, it's over. Your Honor, I have given you clear examples of the privileges of the Foral Community of Navarre and I have cited the articles where they come from. So don't say we made things up. And, by the way, there's nothing xenophobic about it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u34	Mr Cerdán León has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth, Mr Del Valle, is that as far as xenophobic matters are concerned, all you have to do is listen to the interventions of your colleagues. There's the explanation, that's what I'm limited to. [[Protests.- A Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Enough!]] What you've heard I say. And, Mr Del Valle, you will read a lot - I will not discuss it - but the truth is that you understand little, because you are confused and what you intend to confuse. That's what you've done. [[Applauds]] You have doubts about a procedure with a single objective, to erode the institutions and attack the autonomous state, which you do not like. Navarre, for you to know, contributes 1.6%, which is above the 1.4% represented by the population of Navarre. It is clear that you have not listened carefully to the intervention. If you don't know how it's calculated, it's because you haven't read the convention, because it's reflected in how it's calculated. If I had read it, I would understand how the convention is calculated, because the agreements are public and transparent. That's why I told him I had to read more. The autonomous state is that Spain which you, unfortunately, do not understand, plural Spain, diverse Spain, where for the Democrats you have room up to you, who do not know what tolerance and respect means. [[Applauds]] That is real Spain, not the one you preach, not the one you yearn for, based on exclusion and privileges. You only know how to do politics from the confrontation, from the confrontation between citizens and between territories, as I said in my first intervention. You do not respect the votes, you do not believe in democracy, you do not respect democracy. The real danger to the coexistence and unity of Spain is not the Navarra Convention, it is you. They deny the coexistence of different people as they deny macho violence and they do not feel ashamed. This week we have suffered three murders victims of male violence, one of them in Palencia. [[Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: What does that have to do with it?]] It has a lot to do with it, ladies and gentlemen. She was murdered by the macho violence that you deny. [[Applauds]] It is not a family tragedy - to see if you understand - as you say - following your postulates, yours and your party - that idle vice president you have in the government of Castile and León. It is hard to believe such atrocities and that someone in his or her right mind does not embarrass him or her. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u36	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr García Adanero intervenes in the holding of positions by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I also greet the President of the Foral Community of Navarre and the Counsellor of Finance and recently also spokeswoman of the Government of Navarre itself. The truth is that, listening to the Minister, there was a moment in her speech when she thought that she was going to present herself as the leader of the Socialist Party in the Foral Community of Navarre, because she was more dedicated to defending the government's management than to explaining the economic agreement. It is true that it is certainly not easy for you to explain the convention when you were one of those people who said that the Economic Convention of the Foral Community of Navarre was a privilege and was somewhat opaque. If he who passes through the ministry has served to change his mind, at least something positive will take us out of his time in the Spanish Ministry of Finance. Look, you don't have to confuse unity with uniformity, you don't have to confuse unity with uniform because it has nothing to do with it. There is much more to the unity of Spain by voting in favour of the Economic Convention of the Foral Community of Navarre than by voting against, I can assure you. Is all of Spain the same? Is it that we aspire to a communist regime, in which everything is a simple table? Is it the same in Cadiz as in Soria, that in Pamplona, that in Valencia? Do you live the same in a big city as in a town? Spain is diverse. And at the moment there is a debate about taxes, and some, as they do not like what some communities led by the People's Party are doing, both Madrid and Andalusia in this case, want to return to uniformity. What are we saying then? Is it the Government of Spain that decides all policies? That is their policy, but, of course, we do not share it, and it better not be what happens, because, at least, we now have counterweights. Navarra is a community, in accordance with the first additional provision of the Constitution, and that is so. But when you take the Constitution you have to take it whole; the rest of the communities are Title VIII, yes, that's right, that's what the Constitution says. Therefore, the Navarra Foral Regime of course is a regime properly endorsed by the Constitution and by all the rulings of the Constitutional Court. But, above all, in no case is it a privilege. It has now been said that the contribution is 1.6%, and by inhabitants it is less. It's said to be opaque. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see all the numbers. A clear example: we are currently paying more taxes in Navarre than in La Rioja, a common system. At the moment, tax-free shipping companies are worse treated than ordinary businesses. But, even further, with the same government in the Foral Community of Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community, changing the order of the Presidencies, we pay much more taxes on shipwrecks than those of the Basque Autonomous Community, because the freedom of the one who exercises the legitimately obtained power in the ballot box is in which to administer in one way or another, and that happens in the whole of Spain. Because there are political parties that govern in some communities and aim to break the unity of Spain you cannot say that then I take over all autonomy and so there is no problem. No, the problem will continue to exist. That's not how things are done. What needs to be done is to convince the majority of citizens to vote differently from what they are voting for in these autonomous communities. Of course, it does not contribute much if you make them priority partners and place them in the governance of Spain. But since the problems are not solved it is looking away, and, therefore, you have to assume things as they are. And in this case we, of course, are proud of the Navarra Foral Regime, regardless of whether one is against or in favour of the taxes that were passed here. The agreement has to be done, there is no better way to form part of the unity of Spain than through the Foral Community of Navarre, through the first additional provision, because it was wanted by the legislators in 1978, and, of course, the Navarro people have endorsed it over the years. Moreover, the greatest attack on the self-government of the Foral Community of Navarra is by those who want Navarra to disappear as a differentiated political community within Spain, and issues such as the convention and its foral regime make a wall against those who aim to have that foral regime and the self-government of Navarra cease to exist and become part of a province at this time of the Basque Autonomous Community and in the future of that entelequia that they call Euskal Herria. Therefore, it would be worth more than one to see what the convention entails, what characteristics it has; of course, for nothing privilege; solidarity, as has been explained, and cornerstone the Foral Community of Navarre in the unity of Spain. That is why some of us are fighting for Navarra to remain a differentiated political community within Spain; singular, with its things, with its successes, with its flaws, but, of course, contributing to the national project that is Spain. Those who are on another wave are those who, while defending this, end up making political life protagonists to those who want to end Navarra as a differentiated political community within the unity of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u38	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Maria Chivite, Elma Saiz, ongi etorri. Egun where you're going. Today we will vote on the update of the Navarra Economic Convention. I won't waste more than a minute answering the absurd things we've heard from the far right. As usual, today we have this debate in the midst of the already known qualifiers, such as privileges, inequality or superiority, coming from the greatest ignorant about what the economic convention is and how it is articulated. Of the risks that it also carries to the Navarra institutions when they come wrong and do not collect, from this part the right never speak. They do not count it because it would be discovered that their only solution for when the public coffers are emptied with their nefarious politics is to ask the Pope State to rescue them. This is something that shipwrecks and shipwrecks don't do. With its advantages, but also with its risks, we manage our fiscal policy with our resources, and we still make our contribution in solidarity with the rest of the State, in addition to being obliged to pay for services as dear and necessary by the Navarra citizenship as the Royal House or the Army. All this is what they don't count, and they don't because they're just trying to attack the rights of Navarra citizens. Mr Sayas and Mr García Adanero, these, the far right that seeks to end the rights of the shipwrecks, are the ones who each week pamper and pat you on the back. These are your traveling companions, I hope it will make you reflect. Today we will debate and vote on an update that incorporates various taxes to be managed by Nafarroa, as well as new capacities and instruments to strengthen our self-government and fiscal capacity. We welcome these advances, which represent new tools so that from Navarre, from our institutions, we can have greater capacity to deploy public policies in favour of our citizens, because, yes, we are convinced that being able to have all the possible fiscal instruments will offer us greater capacity to make society in Navarre a more socially just and economically advanced society, because our will to sovereignty, our will to govern ourselves without any limit or to tie ourselves up responds to this, so that shipwrecks can have all the necessary tools to decide and organize our social, economic and cultural life in favour of the majority. The economic convention is only an instrument - insufficient - on this path, but, yes, it is a clear example that it sees that being able to decide in Navarre and for Navarre on ever more economic issues that affect our lives is beneficial for all. Unfortunately, we know that this is not shared by all the political forces of this Congress or by all those of the Navarro Parliament. The agreement offers us a certain fiscal capacity, limited and totally insufficient, which some are committed to cutting even further. I'm talking about PP and UPN, but also PSOE and PSN. For more than forty years the Spanish governments, with the connivance of UPN then and the PSN now, have eschewed and failed all the demands that the agreement establishes and that the shipwrecks and shipwrecks we demand, and this time, with the hands of the PSOE, it is intended to make another twist. And this is because, as they remind us in every update of the convention, we are not on equal terms: Madrid dictates and Navarre obeys. Through various forms and ways they have tried to bypass what is established by the convention, undermining Navarra's fiscal power and, consequently, cutting our own self-government. They have done so with triquiñuelas when calculating the convention with results beneficial to the State but harmful to Navarra, and now they are doing so again trying to restrict the decision-making capacity of the Parliament of Navarra with regard to the convention. You intend to turn a technical commission, a body of simple coordination into a political space between governments that decide what, how and when about the negotiation and agreement of the convention. You intend to change the charge rate for general charges that Navarra bears without having to pass through Parliament. From now on, they do not consider these amendments to be an amendment of the law itself and therefore steal Parliament and its democratic representation from the power to decide on it. Obviously, these changes will affect fiscal policy and, consequently, also public policies of the Government of Navarre aimed at citizens. It is not a decision for governments but for the Navarro Parliament, as the law specifies, and you want to erase it unilaterally. That is why today we will allow the updating of the convention to be approved. But do not be confused, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, we will not allow you from the Madrid and Iruña governments to erase the powers and rights of the Parliament of Navarre and its legitimate representatives. Defending Navarra is defending its democratic institutions, defending Navarra is defending its self-government and its instruments, and defending Navarra is defending respect for our laws and our rights. We're not gonna let you try to steal from us. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u40	Thank you. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u41	Thank you, President. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome the Navarra authorities who are accompanying us today in this debate, which they are also protagonists today. I am not going to answer the whole amendment tabled because it is an amendment full of nonsense that shows the great ignorance that some of the Navarro convention have, and of course it is not worth rebutting to those who do not understand - and what is worse - nor want to understand. They confuse concepts: today the Navarra contribution is not discussed; they speak of privileges that do not exist; they speak of insolidity, but look at article 54 of the law and the imputation index, and question the procedure that has been endorsed by the Constitutional Court. Today they are presenting an amendment whose main objective is to try to use the economic convention as a source of grievance against other autonomy in order to try to obtain political revenues in terms of votes in the rest of the State. This is called demagogicism, opportunism and party manipulation, and the truth is that I assure you few revenues with this speech, at least in Navarre and in Euskadi. Keep it up because it's going to be great for everyone else. Indeed, today we are discussing the updating of the economic agreement between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, and I would like to recall that the agreement is the most important financial and tax instrument of the competition system, and we all recognise it. Today, therefore, we are debating and voting on the amendment of Law 28/90 of 26 December on the economic convention, as provided for in the third additional provision, which states that when a substantial reform of the State's tax law takes place, it must be done by common agreement with the revision of the economic convention. And this is precisely what has happened since the last modification that took place in 2015, almost seven years ago. The negotiating committee of the convention, in the sessions of March and June 2022, reached an agreement which we are voting for today and which concludes several taxes approved by the State whose levy, management and collection from now on goes to the hands of the Foreign Treasury of Navarre. Moreover, it is an agreement consistent with the international tax system, which states that it is taxed where value is generated. That is why we value it positively, because it is possible to have all the tax resources available. Basically, and without entering into technical details that are already spelled out in the reformed text, the convention incorporates the gas, oil and condensate extraction value tax, the tax on certain digital services, the tax on financial transactions, the tax on waste deposits, the value added tax. Similarly, as the text says, technical changes have also been incorporated in order to improve the management and inspection of the Foral Finance, as well as coordination between the Foral Tax Administration and the State. This is basically what is contained in the annex to the bill. It's clear and concise. There is only one article in the draft to reject, approve or abstain from what has been agreed by both Governments within that negotiating committee, and therefore the procedure established is one-sided reading, an essential feature of the convention that needs to be respected. This reform shows that the Convention is an instrument adaptable to change and therefore allows the economic-financial and tax relations between the Foral Community of Navarre and the State administration to be regulated. It is an instrument that has our utmost consideration and respect. We are in accordance with the procedure, and we reflect it on Tuesday with our affirmative vote. However, the Basque Group considers that the agreement reached by both parties, by the governments, incorporates a legislative change that runs counter to the capacity to act and therefore to the decision of the Navarro Parliament. The change seems small, but it is important, because now - as Bel 1 has rightly said - the imputation rate is no longer in the hands of the Navarro Parliament. From now on, the establishment of this index will be the responsibility of a technical committee composed of representatives of the two parties. 1 Refers to Mrs. Pozueta Fernández. This is a decision which, until now, has been reflected in a law to be passed by Parliament and which is now out of the way. The imputation rate was reflected in the first transitional provision, a provision which, since it was collected by law, had to be voted in the Navarro Parliament, and since the agreement now eliminates that first transitional provision, Parliament will not be able to decide anything about this index, simply because it has disappeared from the law and will not be able to be voted on. If I may, this means subtracting or removing this competition from the Navarra Parliament and thus undermining self-government. The personality of the convention, which placed the determination of the imputation rate in the hands of the Parliament of Navarre, is not preserved. This can be corroborated in all the parliamentary debates that have taken place in the Navarro Parliament since 1990. We cannot understand this change but rather as a political key, which seeks to reduce the margin of manoeuvre of the Parliament of Navarre in tax and financial matters and, therefore, we cannot agree with this legislative change. Our group supports the procedure, but for what we have argued, of course, we disagree on the substantive issue that we have just raised. So, in line with what was decided and voted in the Navarra Parliament, today the Basque Group will abstain in the vote on the draft law amending the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre and we will vote against the amendment as a whole tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u42	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning to the representatives of the Navarra Foral Community. We are discussing the reform of the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, and saying that we are discussing it is a way of talking, because this is just a parliamentary shortcut from this government that we know many of. Because it is about stealing from the opposition the ability to amend, improve or even reverse some of the measures coming from the Council of Ministers. Once again, you do it again, but we are not going to get used to your trophies. Look, the one-reading procedure, as set out in Rule 150.1 of the Rules of Procedure of Congress, is limited only to projects of simplicity in their nature or of urgency, and you know as well as I do that this initiative in no case meets those requirements. But how are we going to call for rigour from a government with an accredited eagerness overtaken by the decree and, in general, by any bullshit to sweep away Parliament, which is the democratic counter-power of the government. You do the same with Parliament as you do, for example, with public television, with the General Council of the Judiciary or with the INE, to despise simply because it bothers you and plays in front of the government in the democratic game of the balances between the powers of the state. But let's know what you're doing with this procedure that skips the whole parliamentary process. It basically leaves us to the political groups without the possibility of discussing, presenting amendments or, ultimately, doing the work for which the Spaniards chose us, because for this government there are first-rate laws and second-rate laws, some that follow the normal procedure and others that are untouchable and are not subject to the work or legislative control of Congress. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to vote against this initiative, we are going to support it, as we supported it in Navarre, but even in those reforms and measures that one supports we must be rigorous in the procedure, not deprive the opposition of their rights and comply with the rules. Because corrupting the form is corrupting the fund, and when you pervert the form you are giving reason to those who then delegitimize this parliamentary agreement. This is playing with the institutions and, moreover, questioning them, and that is very dangerous. At this point, we are not surprised that the government ignores the functions of Parliament. We are more than accustomed to the Sánchez Government simply understanding this House as a process for what is cooked in the Council of Ministers to pass directly to the BOE and, if possible, without debate or dialogue. And if this House approves a legislative procedure that you do not like, you skip the separation of powers and do and undo to block it when it is needed. I do not need to remind you of what has happened, for example, with the ELA Act, which was adopted unanimously and carries eighteen extensions, or with the decree regulating the European funds, which we managed to deal with as a draft law, despite the Government, and accumulates sixty-two extensions. What is the point of getting decrees to pass through this Congress if you are going to block them forever to prevent the opposition from introducing amendments? For this reason, we believe that this is not the proper procedure for discussing a matter of the significance of the Navarro economic agreement, because you, accustomed to reaching agreements outside Parliament, want to make the Spaniards - giving arguments to others - believe that this agreement is bilateral between the Sánchez PSOE and Mrs Chivite's PSN-PSOE, when what is ratified is a comprehensive agreement in the Navarro Parliament; indeed, without the support of Bildu and Geroa Bai. Let us remember that this agreement is born of a Parliament and it is another Parliament that has to ratify it. On the other hand, this project will have a general impact on the economy, because the rule collects taxes that will entail the decrease of collection for the State Tax Agency for the benefit of the Navarras, and this economic impact must be quantified and communicated to all citizens and, of course, also to this Congress and with due transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with an issue of autonomous financing, a crucial agreement that should be a state agreement and that bipartisanism has been parking and waiting for it to be resolved by magic. It is also said by a Member of the Valencian Community who is tired of promises in the face of under-financing and who would like you to take the same haste that you are taking to pass laws that are only in the interest of the Government and its partners, but which you do not have at all to address the reform of the autonomous financing system, that great elephant in the room. What then happens to common system communities? At least have the courage to recognize before all the Spaniards that you do not want to open a debate in which you would see all the seams, simply because you have to secure armchairs and charges. And remind citizens in a few months' time, in an election campaign, how easily you are able to lie to their faces by promising what you will never do. We will not reject the debate and we will support this update of the Navarro convention because it is in line with the Constitution. Because, unlike the Basque 'cuponazo', it is not the result of the political marketing, but of a broad consensus between different forces that prioritizes a technical calculation to a politician and because Citizens in Navarre, with the coalition of Navarra Suma, has managed that this update has to be counted with state technicians and not unilaterally from an autonomous community or with chanchullos between government partners. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the proof that this is good for Navarre, good for its distinct identity from the Basque Country - that which attacks annexionist nationalism - and good for the whole of Spain is that in the Parliament of Navarre it was Bildu and the Navarra branch of the PNV, Geroa Bai, who did not support this agreement. I guess it's because they don't want a Navarra as autonomous as the Basque Country or because they only vote in favour when there are 'councils' negotiated behind the backs of citizens and with the sole criterion of favouring nationalism. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have it meridically clear: if the nationalists oppose, we can say that, under the Constitution, this is the best possible agreement for Navarra and for all of Spain and the worst for those who want a Navarra subject to the Basque Country and a Spain in pieces. And, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a good heritage that deserves to be truly felt is constitutional patriotism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Uriarte has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Torrealday.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u45	Dear colleagues, dear President of Navarre, Mrs Chivite, you are at home. We have to deal today with the amendment to the entire update of the Navarra Convention. The umpteenth update has been made, in this case to introduce - as is necessary, according to the Navarra Convention Law of 1990 - the new tax modalities: the Google rate, the Tobin rate and the tax on waste. As the amendment to the whole of the VOX Group - which I have taken the trouble to read - rightly mentions and explains very clearly, they oppose the Navarra Convention because they oppose what it brings about, that is, they oppose the first additional provision of the Constitution. This is not new, because, indeed, every time something reaches a plenary of this Congress they oppose each of the articles of the Constitution, not only the twenty-two articles of Title VIII, which they do explicitly, but one by one of the other articles are opposed and, in this case, also the additional provision. I would recommend that, if they object in this way to the additional provision, they talk to the PNV colleagues to explain to them the role that the Royal House had and that the senators had by real designation in this provision, because to know how one is positioned first you have to have a little knowledge of cause and history; that would help them a lot. Of course, I send my solidarity to the Citizens' Group and the UPN Group, because the truth is that the paper they have today is really complicated. The VOX Group opposes the first additional provision of the Constitution. In this sense, to them, who accuse their former right-wing coward party, the truth is that I don't see them either a less cowardly right than the one they criticize. There were other deputies, the deputies who opposed the state of autonomy, who voted no to the Constitution; those five deputies of the popular bench who voted no to the Constitution, together with the deputy of the left abertzale, were a little less cowardly because they voted against the Constitution to which they opposed. It would also be a less cowardly right than that of Congressman Blas Piñar, for he spoke clearly and did not have to hide his claims, his subsidiaries and his phobias and his rejection of the Constitution; he did not have to be in the closet hiding, let us say, his contempt for the Constitution. Nor does Mrs. Giorgia Meloni, whom you admire, hide. She has not hidden her ideas; she has been campaigning in neofascism since she was 15 years old; she clearly declares herself an admirer of Mussolini; she has clearly said with these exact words - of which there is evidence - that Mussolini was a great politician, that everything he did was for Italy. She, Giorgia Meloni, created a match, Fratelli d'Italia, whose symbol is the symbol of Mussolini, is the tricolor torch. [[Brothers of Italy]] She does not hide it, she uses the motto of Mussolini: 'God, fatherland and family'. She doesn't hide it, she's not in the closet, she's very clear, she's called a neo-fascist or post-fascist, as the BBC calls her, not like the Spanish media telling her right center. I do not know if it is right center or right coward, I do not know how to call it, but it is clear in its definition: it is defined as neofascist, as postfascism, speaks of its admiration for Mussolini and uses the same symbols that Mussolini used. Is she really a right not a coward? [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon utters words that are not perceived]] Well, neither is she a less cowardly right. It is also a relatively cowardly right, because soon it is going to start to wrinkle, it is going to start to charm and it is going to be a cowardly right in front of certain things and brave in others; and I will predict it: it is going to be in a government that is theoretically very brave with some very cowardly with others, because when it faces the European Commission and the European Central Bank, when it faces economic powers, when it has the choice between courage and money, both 20th century fascism and neofascism, always, between courage and money, they will kneel before money. [[Applauds]] And they'll see it, they'll see it. Mighty gentleman is a gift of money, as the country saying goes, and there Mrs Meloni will kneel, accept the conditions and hide in the closet, again, all the neofascist paraphernalia, and will say: now I'm going to put on the little suit of right center, coward right, or whatever we want to call it. He's going to do it very quickly, he's going to hide and he's going to hide all his paraphernalia; don't give them the slightest doubt. Where he will have courage is in another space: in Salvini space. If he is going to have courage to fight those poor people who are dying of hunger, dead of thirst, exhausted, on the Italian coast, there he is going to have courage, there friend Salvini is going to be very brave, he is going to be a bull breast; against those who are dying of hunger he is going to be brave. [[applause]] So, first of all, I would like to congratulate those coalition governments of Spain and Navarre, the President of Navarre, Mrs Chivite, and Minister Montero, because this mechanism which introduces the additional provision and the foral regime, which is a cooperative federalism mechanism, requires not only an obligation to do, but an obligation of result, it requires not only negotiation, but also a requirement to reach agreements. Imagine what would happen to us if the Government of Spain or the Government of Navarre did what was done with another obligation of result imposed by our constitutional order, which is the renewal of the constitutional organs and the highest courts of the State. What would happen if I resorted to disobedience, if they refused to agree and agree?, how would our country be?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u46	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u47	I'm done, President. I take this opportunity, as we are talking about brave and cowardly, to send a solidarity hug to my friend Iñigo Mijangos and the entire Aita Mari crew. Those are real braves, they don't get...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u48	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up, thank you. [[Greetings.-Mr. Guijarro García makes protest gestures]] Mr Guijarro, I do not know if you have not been present at the beginning of this plenary session, but I have already warned - and at the Spokesman's Meeting I also repeated it - that we would be strict at all times, warning thirty seconds before the end of the intervention and cutting just in time. That's how it's been all morning and that's how it's gonna be. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u49	Mr President, with regard to Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I just want to make sure that it is recorded...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u50	One second. I will give you the floor, but I ask you to stick exactly to the allusion you have made and not to extend, under any circumstances, to anything other than that.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u51	I will be very brief, Mr President. I just want to make it clear that Mrs Meloni is not a shipwreck. I'm saying it because as we call it to order here when we don't get to the point... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u52	All right. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: I am not finished; I am not finished. Can I talk to you for a minute?]] That's not an allusion, Your Honor. I appreciate your input. Sit down. We continue with the debate. [[Applauds]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Beltrán Villalba.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u53	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to welcome and greet the President of Navarre, the Councillor for Economic Affairs and Finance and my colleagues in the Parliament of Navarre. Ladies and gentlemen, you listened with real surprise and concern to the parliamentary groups, which are deeply unaware of what the greatness of our country is. That greatness is no more or less than a plural Spain, a diverse Spain, a Spain rich in cultures and accents and always within the Spanish nation, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, who do not know. [[Applauds]] We cannot love our country well if the past - as you do not know - is unknown, if our history is unknown and, more importantly, if our Constitution is unknown. The Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre which we are debating today represents the essence of the State of autonomy, a State based on the diversity of Spain, on respect for and protection of historical rights and, at the same time, on solidarity between the different territories belonging to the same country and living together under the same Constitution. Since 1515, in which Navarra is incorporated into the Crown of Castile, Navarra has maintained a certain singularity by sustaining throughout the centuries its legislative institutions, its courts of justice, its right, including the power to establish and collect its own taxes. Until the 19th century a special and singular union was recognized, but in 1839 Navarra adjusted its historical powers to the demands of constitutional unity; a union that was completed in 1841. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I am telling you the story, it is in case you want to know beyond the Constitution, but I see no. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has a conversation with the deputies sitting behind his seat, turned back to the speaker's rostrum.]] As I said, it is a union that was completed in 1841, becoming part of the unitary structure of the State, but adjusting for Navarra a regime that was called foral regime and that was articulated around the Covenant Law, of 1871. The characteristics of this foral regime, given its agreed nature, imply that any modification of it could only be made by means of a new pact or agreement between the State and the Navarra institutions. From 1841 to 1969 the Navarro Foral Regime went through certain difficulties, which were remedied by the 1969 Convention. And now - already in democracy - the 1978 Constitution protected and respected the rights of the outside territories. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the Constitution put an end to the alleged doubt between the courts and the constitutional unity by declaring that the outlaw regime finds its full protection and respect in the Magna Charter. This text that we are discussing today has been agreed in the Economic Convention Coordinating Commission governing the relations between Navarre and the State. This committee is composed of members of the State Administration and the Navarra Foral Community, and subsequently this text has been approved by an absolute majority in the Parliament of Navarra - of course, where the VOX gentlemen are not - and now comes to the Courts for ratification as a bill. The economic agreement does not discriminate against certain... Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, it's just that I'm telling you and you're the spokesperson for VOX, so I'd like you to listen. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon continues to turn his back on the speaker's rostrum talking to another Member of Parliament]] The economic agreement does not discriminate against one citizen against another, but rather is an instrument of a different relationship than part of our Constitution, an agreement in which the tax norm of the State is aligned and which has the necessary mechanisms to make that relationship beneficial, both for the outside community and for the whole of Spain. The economic agreement gives Navarra ample room for manoeuvre in the management of tax obligations, yes, and in the power of the community to manage its own taxes, but at the same time guarantees respect for the laws of the general regime of the State and Navarra's contribution to interterritorial solidarity. There is nothing, ladies and gentlemen, in the outlying institutions of Navarre that separates them or separates them from Spain; quite the contrary, because they are institutions whose survival has been maintained and developed with many historical avatars over the centuries and today they have the legal and political legitimacy that our Magna Charter has offered them for more than forty years. Today we will approve, yes, the sixth amendment of the convention, which includes tax and financial amendments, as the minister and other colleagues who have already told me in the intervention, tax and financial amendments that govern the relations between Navarre and the State and that lay the basis for an agreement on the annual contribution to the support of the general burdens of the State. I hope that Mr Del Valle - the spokesman who defended the amendment as a whole - is listening to me. Some think that the Foral Community of Navarre enjoys a tax autonomy that makes it a sort of fiscal paradise and that it is also a privileged community. Well, it's not, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that Navarra has autonomy to establish and maintain its own tax system, but the structure is identical to that of the State and there is a basic coincidence in the regulation of taxes. Moreover, the convention obliges Navarra to maintain - and this is important - an effective tax burden equivalent to that of the rest of the State. On the other hand, the convention's regime implies the exercise of full fiscal responsibility, which means that taxes must ensure budgetary sufficiency to cover public expenditure. Consequently, Navarra has to provide the vast majority of public services with its own resources. I'm done. It is important to note that it is the Basque nationalist and independenceist parties that have not approved this economic agreement in the Parliament of Navarre.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u54	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u55	Yeah. This agreement doesn't feel like yours. And, finally, I turn to the lords of VOX: it is time for the patriots to learn what the Constitution says. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u56	Thank you very much. We vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 11 a.m. forty-five minutes to 14 hours today, the rest of the items on the agenda, which will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting, will be able to be voted on electronically by those who have asked for it and voted on it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u58	We are beginning to vote on committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Draft Act on Explosive Precursors. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi and Mr Boadella Esteve. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 20 against, 304 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u59	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 21 against, 304 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u60	They're rejected. Amendment tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group, No 27. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 29 against, 302 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u61	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the VOX Group, No 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 50 against, 196 abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u62	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group, numbers 33, 34, 35 and 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 141 against, 197 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u63	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 49 against, 188 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u64	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. We voted for Amendment No 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 101 against, 184 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u65	It's rejected. Amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, number 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 141 against, 187 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u66	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 141 against, 196 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u67	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u68	Direct and read-only processing of legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 48 against, 293.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u69	The amendment is rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u70	We continue with the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree Law 16/2022, of 6 September, for the improvement of the working and social security conditions of workers in the service of the household. To present the decree law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. [[Rumors]] Please, I pray that those who want to leave will do so as diligently as possible. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet so that the minister can begin, please. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u71	Good morning. I would like to begin by welcoming, first of all, the women domestic workers, the associations representing them and the trade union representatives who have worked and made it possible for this text today to see the light. [[Applauds]] I compare with you today to explain the content and scope of Royal Decree Law 16/2022 of 6 September, for the improvement of the working and social security conditions of working women in the service of the home. [[The lady]] The first thing I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is the Government's pride in bringing to this House a rule that redresses the historical discrimination of domestic workers and represents the commitment of Spanish society to real and effective equality between women and men. [[Rumors.-Pause]] Thank you. Equality, ladies and gentlemen, is the most ambitious project that a society can have, and this norm enshrines that priority of our Government, the same one that promoted almost two years ago the Royal Decrees 901/2020 and 902/2020 on equal pay for men and women at work. This royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, is the challenge of an injustice incompatible with a consolidated democracy such as ours. We have lived together for decades with a work order that inconceivably allowed the existence of second-rate workers, deprived of their rights because they were precisely the most vulnerable among the vulnerable, because they were women. The perfect storm of all inequalities has been identified over them because, in addition to women, many of them are migrants, because they charge the minimum or have been condemned to work in informality, while taking on reproductive jobs that allow the functioning of all our social scaffolding and our economy. They have seen how their lives, those that left behind thousands of miles from our country and those that try to live here, do not export or matter less. Our democracy has allowed an area of shadow, darkness, alienation from decent work and labour rights, and has confined thousands and thousands of women to that sinister, isolated space, while we proclaim the fundamental importance of the care they provide. That is why this is a standard of reparation, a standard of recognition and dignity that is essential for democratizing work in our country and for restoring that great collective wound. This royal decree operates the full equality of labour and social security rights of domestic workers; it is only in this way possible to correct indirect discrimination on the grounds of sex in which Spanish legislation was so far involved and by which we were required by the Court of Justice of the European Union in its already emblematic judgment of 24 February this year. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u72	Excuse me, Vice President. Could you please keep the conversations somewhere else or in a lower tone?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u73	Thank you. We also fulfil and expand another international mandate. I am referring, as you know, to ILO Convention 189, whose ratification has already been approved by this House and which, shortly after its imminent vote in the Senate, will be part of our legal system. I shall now set out to you the scope of the rule which you have submitted for your consideration. This Royal Decree eliminates all the pejorative treatment that has been suffered so far by domestic workers. They shall have the same benefit coverage and contribution schemes as the rest of the workers. Perhaps the most important transformation is the recognition at the end of the public unemployment benefit, the most flagrant inequality suffered by this group. The lack of unemployment coverage was a degradation of enormous significance in an activity with a great job rotation and which is corrected precisely by the present royal decree law. It is an unemployment benefit with the same characteristics as for the rest of the workers; this means that it is a public benefit without nuances, without gaps and without exceptions. Full equality in the field of social security benefits means that the contribution systems must be adapted, which means that the unemployment contribution must be made compulsory and that the wage guarantee fund must also be made compulsory. There is also a balanced reduction in contributions in proportion to the income of family units, covering the various situations and characteristics of employers and employees. The system of the first additional provision, which is, as you know, subject to regulatory development, is a very important step forward in this respect. Beyond the bonus to large families, the bonus will be extended to all living units depending on their income and wealth, thus meeting the economic needs of families in establishing recruitment aid. Another novelty that I would like to point out is that this royal decree law will mean the disappearance of the framing specialties for female domestic workers who worked less than sixty hours a month; a measure that in practice was a way of fraud and that is closed with this law, also correcting this discriminatory effect. I would also like to refer to the changes made by this Royal Decree-Law in the field of labour rights. With regard to the termination of the contract, Royal Decree Law 16/2022 definitively eliminates the figure of dismissal or free dismissal, which degrades the situation of domestic workers by increasing their precariousness, dependence and insecurity. That arbitrary exhibition is over, ladies and gentlemen. He ended up getting rid of a person's work and effort for no reason. From now on, there must always be, like the rest of the labour law, a just cause for the dismissal of the household worker. This Royal Decree takes into account the particularities of domestic work and, therefore, establishes new grounds for justified dismissal with the right to compensation, which deal with situations related to the change of the essential circumstances in the family unit, with the loss of confidence, which must always be argued with reasonableness and proportionality. The disappearance of free dismissal in domestic work was essential in order to eliminate discrimination on the grounds of sex and to comply with ILO Convention 189, but, in addition, by eliminating this harmful figure of withdrawal we are also activating a very valuable barrier against job insecurity. Another equalization of conditions of great relevance established by Royal Decree Law 16/2022 relates to the protection of the Wage Guarantee Fund. From now on, domestic workers will be protected in the event of the insolvency of their employer, and will thus be able to collect their wages and compensation when the family unit does not take over. This incorporation of protection for female domestic workers in the field of unemployment and the Wage Guarantee Fund is not going to impact - and this is very important - on employers, because the standard provides for an ex officio bonus made by the Public Employment Service of 80% of the contribution of both unemployment and the Wage Guarantee Fund. The impact and increase of costs for families is thus cushioned by this route. It is also stipulated that the contract is always made in writing, regardless of its duration, which makes it possible to accommodate recruitment in this sector of activity in accordance with Directive 2019/1152 on transparent and predictable working conditions. The Government's commitment to the development of training and knowledge accreditation policies for domestic workers is also shaped. Another of the capital changes in this royal decree law is equalization in the field of occupational risk prevention. The exclusion of the right to health of domestic workers was unacceptable, because that right to the prevention of occupational risks was a patrimony of all workers who did not allow exceptions and in this case also placed their attention in the field of protection against any form of violence in the exercise of their duties. Another precept, ladies and gentlemen, is the establishment of a commission for the integration of the gender perspective into the list of occupational diseases, which will mean an equal vision without biases of health and prevention at work. The royal decree, as you know, also deals with other matters, to which I will refer briefly. The first is that specific details are laid down to ensure the full effectiveness of the direct aid to public transport provided for in Royal Decree Law 11/2022, in order to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine. Secondly, organizational and functional measures are put in place so that the State Foundation for the Prevention of Occupational Risks can immediately and effectively deploy its functions of assistance, technical cooperation, information, dissemination, training, monitoring and research. Thirdly, and lastly, the Royal Decree makes it possible to maintain and follow the path of the common activation programmes for employment, which are due to expire on 30 September. It is clear that in all the matters covered by this royal decree the extraordinary and urgent need required by article 86.1 of the Constitution, very specifically in the regulation of employment in the home, as we guarantee legal certainty following the ruling of the Court of Justice, which had established the Community illegality of Spanish legislation. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. The Royal Decree Law 16/2022 is a rule that must integrate the Spanish legal system, not only because it is required by Community and international legality, but because it is the duty of this House to guarantee citizens decent and equal work. In this regard, I would like to thank, as I said, the decisive impetus of all the associations and groups of women employed in the household, who today, as I have told you, are accompanying us in this rostrum, and all the unions, who have also made it possible. I want to thank you for your unbridled mobilization. Thanks to your treasure, your treasure, your commitment to equality, we owe you today the achievements that bear fruit in this royal decree, a solid foundation on which to achieve more rights and guarantees. [[Applauds]] I am personally proud to have accompanied this claim. I have done so as a lawyer in the professional defence of many female domestic workers; I have done so later in this House as a Member of Parliament, and I am now doing so as Minister of Labour and Second Vice-President of the Government. I read the other day a tweet from a young Madrider named Roberto, who said the following: my mother, a domestic worker, now has a stable contract and earns about 250 euros more a month than three years ago thanks to the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage and, finally, she will be entitled to unemployment. Thanks to this you can live in peace, and so can I. This must be, ladies and gentlemen, our aspiration as public servants: to repair what is damaged in our society, to reach out to all those women who, unfairly removed from their rights and guarantees, will today be able to aspire to decent work and to have a quieter life. I ask you to support the validation of this royal decree because I believe it is a sign of respect, recognition and responsibility. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, ensure that our democracy does not have to be ashamed for any longer of its forgetfulness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u74	Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke on a position-setting basis by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Second Vice President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. As you have just requested, I will support the validation of this royal decree law which you have just explained, but I would like to point out that it is a real pity that the Government has not taken action long before. In fact, you have had to put the piles on the line of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in a matter on which the General Courts, and in particular the Congress of Deputies, have already discussed on several occasions, the last one in May in this same Chamber, unanimously supporting a non-law proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, the parsimony with which the government has taken this matter gives good proof of the very agreement with which PSOE and United We can have signed its coalition at the end of 2019. In particular, in point 1 of the section devoted to female domestic workers, the two parties which had been formed by the coalition to form the Government undertook to complete, as a matter of priority, the full integration of female domestic workers into the General Social Security System throughout the legislature. We will sign, you said, and rectify International Labour Organization Convention No. 189/2011 on Domestic Workers. It took more than two and a half years, Mrs Díaz, to fulfil a commitment which you yourself identified as a priority at the end of 2012, which had to be approved by the Council of Ministers by the urgent procedure, and which comes to a rebuttal of the European doctrine, already correctly applied by a judge of the administrative and contentious jurisdiction of Vigo, minister and deputy of the province of Pontevedra, who sees that it was up to you very close; a judge who attended to and defended the rights that corresponded to an employee of the Vigese household. Ladies and gentlemen, this House has already spoken - I repeat unanimously - last May in favour of a right, such as access to unemployment coverage for domestic workers. Also in Spanish society itself there is a welcome quite favorable to the different measures contained in this royal decree law. On Saturday, 1 October, the entry into force of the unemployment benefit contribution marks a very long-awaited date for female domestic workers to have access to a well-deserved coverage and to a series of advances and work matchings in domestic work. Therefore, my vote will be in favour of validation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the same group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u77	Thank you, President. Minister, companions who accompany us today from the stage of Congress, companions of the feminist movement who see us from home, today is a historic day. That a royal decree that derives from the adoption of ILO Convention 189, after years of struggle of women domestic workers and the feminist movement, today is law is thanks to you, it is thanks to the organized, tireless and tenacious struggle that you have been giving for years. The struggle serves, the feminist struggle serves, and the critics who tell us that the left we are dealing with things that are not material and those who tell us that feminism deals with symbolic issues, look, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about material rights, we are talking about the rights of domestic workers. Long live the feminist struggle and live the rights of all. It is our obligation also to make visible the margins of this royal decree, which has them. The first point is that we think it is important to talk about labour inspection. I'm sure the minister is aware that for this to happen, resources are needed and labour inspection is needed. The second question is the non-retroactivity in the possibility of asking for unemployment under the terms of the royal decree, which is not there either. And the third question is much more structural, what Rita Laura Segato calls the elementary structures of violence. We're talking about the alien law that the royal decree doesn't address either. The Aliens Act is one of the main axes of violence and persecution of domestic workers and it is essential to say so over and over again. When we talk about gender, we always have to talk about foreigners and we always have to talk about class. Today we are talking about class, we are talking about gender, but we are not addressing the issue of foreigners. But we have a chance. There are other compañeras who are trying to bring an ILP here, to this Congress, of extraordinary regularization of all people who are in irregular situations in the Spanish State. 'Regularization already' is called the campaign. Enter the Internet, sign and when this comes to this rostrum, vote and support the rights of migrants. Long live the feminist struggle, and thank you, comrades, for accompanying us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of Euskal Herría Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u79	Thank you, Madam President. To begin with, I send a affectionate greeting to all of you, workers who have been fighting for your rights for years and who, well, if you don't get all of them, at least today is a great advance. Thank you for your struggle. Egun where you're going. I would like to begin with a reflection. It is not known how many home and care workers are. If the INE gives 545 700 people in the branch of activity in the second quarter of this year and the people discharged in Social Security in August were 368 848, they could be contrasted active and insured to know the economy submerged in this sector. In addition, the total number of active workers may not be faithful because those who are not in a regular administrative situation will tend to avoid their presence in surveys. According to figures handled by different groups, slightly more than 35% of women workers in the home and care sector do not have roles. This barbarity has been naturalized as many of them have been assumed to work in conditions far below the rest. Once again, we recall that it is the law of alienation that operates as a yoke that binds them to work without decent conditions. With regard to the Royal Decree Law 16/2022 that brings us here, we recognize that it brings important improvements with practical consequences. Compensation for wrongful dismissal goes from twenty to thirty-three days a year and the figure of withdrawal disappears, which was the possibility of ceasing someone without explaining the reasons, with compensation of twelve days a year. There will continue to be twelve-day terminations, but they will have to be based on the economic or personal circumstances of the employer party. The recent withdrawal was an insulting way of dismissing, and this is reflected in the displeasure and displeasure of those affected, but in the so-called dismissal for objective reasons of the Workers' Statute it is compensated by twenty days, not twelve, so in this there is no equality. There is something that the reform has not done, which would have been of elementary justice: many of the inmates, and even of the outsiders, who care, when the person dies, after years of dedication, find themselves in unemployment with compensation of only one month's salary, regardless of their age. At home work this situation is daily bread. In the area of social security, unemployment benefit is included. It's about time! We're too late! The reform was required on the basis that the Court of Justice of the European Union declared exclusion from the sector illegal, but in order to be entitled to benefits and allowances, the same advance contribution as the rest would be required, which is causing disappointment among the workers, who expected something else. Reparing discrimination required that the pre-listed periods for the rest of the contingency should have been considered as valid for unemployment, but that had not been the case. The system functioned more generously in the ERTEs of the COVID period by recognizing the benefit to the entire staff, including those who had no history of contribution. And let us not forget, the reform delays until 2024 the total integration into the General Social Security System with the coverage of contribution gaps for the calculation of pensions and the contribution for real wages. In the debate on the Budget Act 2018, the PP introduced amendment 6777 to delay the implementation of the measures until 2024. The PSOE and Podemos agree, in a first pact, to advance the measures to the year 2021. The subsequent pact rectifies, setting the date in 2023. The latter is raised to the law, which has now been repealed to delay the match to 2024. Neither did the minister report when she presented the reform. It should be said that public administrations have systematically failed to comply with the rules on domestic employment without any explanation other than contempt for the sector. Connected with Royal Decree 16/2022, it includes home employment in the Labour Risk Prevention Act and announces a regulation. The inclusion in the Occupational Risk Prevention Act does not guarantee anything. To date, the intervention of the Administration in the area has been to edit guides that no one reads, with recommendations that are not operational. Finally, with regard to occupational diseases, there is no doubt that there may also be physical and mental injuries, lack of rest, lack of privacy of accommodation, lack of social life, insufficient moral and salary recognition, and lack of training and means to carry out the work. For this reason, we will vote in favour of this decree, but also that it is treated as a law to affect all the commented aspects that we consider necessary to improve the current decree law. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u81	Egun on. Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, our support for the validation of this royal decree law, since its purpose, to modify the rules applying to the special employment relationship of domestic workers, is above all a manifest intention to remedy the shortcomings that already exist in the current rules, even if they are installed from judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and also of courts in Vigo, and even though we also understand that they are the necessary element to end up making effective ILO Convention 189 and ILO Resolution 201. As has already been explained by both the Minister and previous speakers, the main purpose of these amendments is, first of all, to understand that the termination of the employment relationship can only take place for justified reasons, and is a substantial improvement from the previous situation or scenario; also an approval of the redundancy payments that did not exist until now with the intensity that is now being collected; also to make it possible to apply to these workers the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks and to facilitate their access, above all, to the unemployment benefit and to the coverage of the FOGASA. Let us go on to say that our support for this measure is not exempt from the fact that there are still certain parameters that need correction, which must be rectified precisely in order to deal with this situation of manifest discrimination in which the sector is found precisely by two characters that all the participants are pointing out: that of being mostly women and having an important group of immigrants. We therefore understand that, even if the text satisfies us, we are going to demand that it be treated as a draft law, since other problems remain to be solved, such as the situation of interns, such as the rights of migrants and the link with their regularity or unemployment situation within the first year, which, apparently and as has been regulated, will not be able to receive until a sufficient period of time has elapsed for them to obtain it. In addition to the new regulation of labour regulations, it turns out that the Royal Decree-Law also includes in its first additional provision a number of benefits in the social security contribution applicable to the system, a modulation of those according to the conditions of income and property and the care needs of families. It therefore recognises, from 1 October 2022, the right to a 20% reduction in the business share by common quotas and an 80 % bonus of contributions to the newly introduced unemployment contribution and FOGASA, noting further paragraph 4 of this additional provision that the reduction will be financed by contributions from the State to social security, and that the bonus will be financed by the SEPE and the Wage Guarantee Fund, each taking into account the part which affects their respective contributions. And eye!, because you also have to do a mattization. In its derogatory provisions there is one relating to the actual decree which contemplates large families, which has caused concern in this group and which we believe should be at least analysed and understood in its fair terms in order to avoid harm to this group. Paragraph 2 provides for an alternative scheme so that from 1 April 2023 it is possible to enjoy a bonus of 35 % or 45 %, taking account of income and wealth requirements, but this was now my intervention, and these benefits we believe should be qualified as incentives for recruitment, as expressly stated in the fifth additional provision of this royal decree law and therefore framed among active employment policies. Therefore, and in accordance with the functions assumed in this field by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the Basque Employment Service, Lanbide, must carry out the functions that SEPE, the State Public Employment Service, and in any case those relating to incentives to recruitment through the system of social quota subsidies, as well as those relating to the determination of the right to bonuses and the control of their requirements and conditions. These contribution benefits applicable to the special system of household employees are an incentive to recruitment, both the exercise of these functions and the financing of these bonuses and reductions, and we therefore believe that it should be recognised, either expressly through the intermediary, where appropriate, that they correspond to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Therefore, I repeat, we shall vote in favour. I believe that this is a clear step forward in this discriminatory situation to date. We believe that, in spite of this, this text should be improved, and that is why, in addition to support, we will request that it be dealt with as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u83	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing is to welcome and thank the presence of the companions, the domestic workers. Thank you for everything you do and for all the women you represent. I believe that domestic workers in our country have traditionally been one of the most vulnerable feminized sectors due to lack of protection and their high levels of irregular recruitment. After years of fair demand, it was time for these employees to be able to have their rights recognized as the rest of the Spanish workers, and I believe that we should even make progress on further improvements and be more ambitious. I think we are late, but it is to be welcomed that women domestic workers can access the unemployment benefit, they can access the payments from the Wage Guarantee Fund when they start to contribute both to them and to those who hire them. As has been said, the figure of withdrawal, which allowed them to be dismissed almost without justification, is narrowed down, and the contractual situation for a group that has always suffered from high levels of submerged economy is regularized. In fact, almost half a million people in this group, at least one in three, do not have employment benefits because they do not contribute to them. This new regulation equates the rights of more than 370,000 domestic workers who are discharged into the Special Social Security System, but we must not forget that about 175,000 domestic workers continue to charge in B, we must not forget those domestic workers who are in an irregular situation. I therefore believe that it is very clear where we should move and deepen the recognition of the rights of a large part of the domestic workers who are not yet going to be able to benefit from this legislative improvement. We clearly anticipate that we are going to vote in favour of this proposal and we need to be clear why we are facing this kind of progress today, and it is because we comply with the law and we comply with Europe. In February, the Court of Justice of the European Union made a clear position on the situation of discrimination experienced by domestic workers in our country by having a special contribution scheme which excluded them, inter alia, from the unemployment benefit, clearly a situation of inequality which placed them in a position and a very clear social gap with the rest of the workers. It is important to bear in mind that we had to deal with this situation in this House a long time before; we are quite late. We have been talking about the ratification of the ILO Convention - by the way, we approved it in this House, but we still lack the approval of the Senate, which we do not have - but, since 2013, why have we not done so before? It is not a question of being here thinking about hanging any medal in this House, or much less the government, because we are doing it late. This recognition and claim of domestic workers should have been made a long time ago - let us be aware of this - and I believe that the trigger was that eardrop of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which told us that we should immediately correct this situation of inequality experienced by domestic workers. If we had not had that sentence, would the domestic workers continue to wait for their rights to be recognized? I think so. That's why I think we don't have to hang a lot of medals, but say, are we talking about progress? Yes, but we should have caused this kind of advance sooner. In addition, we, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, have already made some proposals that were not intended to be looked at at at certain times. We made a proposal in February in which we wanted to implement the universal employment check to simplify the recruitment of these workers and facilitate the outflow of submerged employment. We also made another proposal to articulate the procedure so that they could have access to the unemployment benefit, but they did not want to listen to us in February. In fact, in September we asked for a tax deduction to encourage the regular recruitment of female domestic workers and to reduce the submerged economy of this sector, but the Government did not want to pay attention to us either. Therefore, it seems to me that we are late for a lack of political will. Another issue that needs to be taken into account is that the Government is again using a real decree to push through the back door measures that will harm a part of women, because they will unjustly deny, in this case, the bonuses that large families have. Why do we stick to this question in this royal decree? We do not understand very well why a real decree is being used to collate something that is not beneficial for women from large families and to generate again a situation of inequality, because while it is being resolved or, as is said, it is proposed another type of improvement in which we will see the situation or the levels of income, the only thing that will happen is that, if this is approved, there will be women from large families who will see their rights diminished and degraded. Therefore, we will ask that this royal decree be used as a bill to discuss and amend those measures that we consider to be clearly improveable. We must also take into account the forms that the Government is using extensively in the area of royal decrees, because then the processing remains in a drawer. That also creates some uncertainty. We must not keep in any drawer any rules that imply progress. Furthermore, today I want to use this rostrum to say that we have an essential rule for us, that I am aware that it is of another matter, that it is the law of the ELA, and I want to ask the two members of the government, Podemos and the PSOE, to unlock and train it. We will support this royal decree and we will also request processing as a bill so that we can continue to work on its improvements. Congratulations to all the domestic workers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. We are faced with an undoubted advance that was the result of the trade union and feminist struggle and, therefore, congratulations to all of you who participated in this fight. But you took a long time to adopt ILO Convention 189 and to recognize the rights of women workers - mainly domestic workers. They are doing so now, among other things, bound by the EU Court of Justice judgment of February this year. It is an important step that the BNG has been demanding for many years, but it also seems to us insufficient, because it does not yet mean the real equality of labour rights of this group. Access to unemployment benefits is recognized, but it will not be retroactive to provide coverage to women who are currently in active employment for the duration of their social security leave. This, by the way, does not respect the judgment of the European Court. It also postpones the right to safety and health at work by postponing the drawing up of a list of occupational diseases, and the discrimination of these workers in the event of permanent incapacity will continue to be maintained, as up to five years from now they will be unprotected. On the other hand, while it is obliged to formalise the contract and to pay the corresponding contributions, the ease of dismissal, especially with the formula of loss of confidence, is still maintained. At the same time, it will continue to be cheap to lay off if the compensation of 12 days per year is maintained, compared to 20 of the rest of the working people.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u87	We will therefore vote in favour, but much remains to be done to ensure decent employment in this sector.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u88	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I now give the floor to Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be many, but I have three real job offers. The first is looking for a person to take care of two girls and do household chores. The salary: one room for sleeping, food and 100 euros per month. The second: you are looking for a person to take care of three children, wash, iron, cook and clean the house. From Monday to Friday, from 7:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, from 7:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.; two nights a week you will sleep with the children, plus an additional night, if we travel. 90 hours per week; salary, 900 euros. The third: I offer cleaning of a three-bedroom house, bathroom, kitchen and living room, 8 euros per hour. The miserable one who writes it, then adds by WhatsApp: I offer 20 euros more per hour if I can touch myself while I look at you. [[The Lord]] This has been possible because of fear, isolation, lack of papers and standards. So are the conditions in a deregulated market, that is, in which only those above are free. More than half a million women workers have been forced to accept anything that is offered to them by those who pay because, no matter how hard our liberals engage, there can be no free agreement between unequals. Surely we all regret these situations, but not all the recipes to solve them work. Here the fundamental political difference lies between those who prefer to rely on the quality of the strong and those who defend that the only thing that works is to build the strength of the weak: the rights. It has been the struggle and persistence of the workers' organizations, the feminist movement and the associations of emigrants that have brought us here; therefore, the consensus that exists today in this House. A struggle of many small and everyday actions against centuries of silence, humiliation and fear to console those who could no longer, to advise and give options, to accompany and connect, so that no one is alone. That struggle and persistence work: not to wait, not to hide, not to resign. Spain today makes law that women domestic workers have the same rights as other workers in the right to unemployment, the right to vacation, the right to medical leave. Thanks to the struggle, but also to political determination, and thanks for that, Minister. Today we advance in the recognition of citizenship also in the workplace, in the house that is cleaned up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u90	Mr. Errejon, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u91	They're not irons, they're not footwashers, they're people with rights. May this victory serve to give hope, to show that organizing serves...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u92	Thank you. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u93	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and Vice-President of the Government, I believe that at the moment we have to differentiate what has been achieved from what has happened, that is, there are two scenarios to be analysed. What has actually been achieved, what regulates the royal decree law, is a success and, therefore, it is a just success and demanded by many people, by a historical social reality that has been repeated and, above all, it is a fact demanded also, as it has been pointed out before, by this Congress of Deputies In different pronouncements that it had previously made, it has even been the usual material of political promises in different electoral programs of the majority of political forces. Therefore, what has been achieved is a success, no doubt, and we have to celebrate this new regulation that eliminates two historical discriminations such as access to unemployment benefits and FOGASA benefits and, the other relevant issue, the reconfiguration and limitation of that dismissal without justification that existed. In that regard, I would like to highlight what has been achieved. But I think it's also fair that we put on the table what happened. This comes after a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and after some judgments of Spanish courts and tribunals; ultimately, the law has gone much later than the reality, than some judicial procedures that pointed to the demand not only political, but also to the judicial resolution of these issues. The adaptation of the rules after reality has already seen that it has happened other times. We discussed it the other day at the Labour Commission in connection with the accumulated layoffs, which then came the rule that arranged it. In relation to the riders then came the rule that tries to find them a solution. And today this also happens, which, unfortunately, the law comes late when some judicial pronouncements had already opened the way. Honestly, to those of PeCAT, to whom we make politics to try to improve people's lives, we would like that politics and laws will come before even judicial pronouncements, surely so we manage many more things than not a posteriori. But, in any case, welcome is. It is a success and, of course, we are going to vote in favour of this royal decree law and we are also going to ask for its parliamentary processing as a bill because it is true that some issues of this regulation can be improved. The question of the internal or internal system and the pattern of unemployment and contributions has been pointed out. In this area of contributions, the disappearance by surprise - at least, we have not been able to understand the reason for this disappearance - of the 45 % bonus in the contributions enjoyed by large families. We therefore believe that there should be a clearer regulation that does not call into question, as at least so far, this issue.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u94	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u95	I'm done, Mr. President. As I said, we welcome the success achieved. The content is very good and we will improve it in the parliamentary process. I would also like to add that we are going to try to get the laws to go even before the court rulings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u96	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, I have the word Carvalho Dantas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u97	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everybody. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of celebration. It is a historic day for the victory of domestic workers and their struggle for the conquest of labour rights, women's rights, the rights of migrants; ultimately, a victory for human rights. And I say more, victory - and this has to be very clear - is not of any politician, it is not of this Member, it is not of any Member of this House and it is not of the Vice-President either. It belongs to no one but the workers of the home and the priests gathered and organized in struggle. [[Applauds]] By the way, many of them accompany us to the rostrum. My group would like to take this opportunity to thank each and every one of you, and also all the comrades who have not been able to come and who continue to fight together. [[looking at the guest gallery]] Today the world is a little fairer thanks to you. Today, with this royal decree, we are making progress in the expansion of rights. Today it is confirmed - because it has been validated - the end of the withdrawal as cause of termination of the contract and the conquest of the right to unemployment for the employees of the household, a claims of the workers who have been accompanied for more than five years by deputies and by the techniques of Esquerra Republicana with the company Joan Tardà, the company Jordi Salvador, the company Ana Curra... [[continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Many times we have preached in the desert for the rights of this collective. Obviously, it is fair to acknowledge the progress, Minister. However, it is equally true that the text we are discussing today is late and rather short. This royal decree begins in its statement of motives promising, and I quote literally: 'To equip working and social security conditions for persons working in the family home with those of other persons working on behalf of others'. Well, the server's first disappointment. This royal decree does not equate anything because it establishes different compensations, different FOGASA requirements and different benefit entitlements. And this distinction is arbitrary, unjustifiable and discriminatory. However, as much or more serious as this is the fact that they do not dare to touch the alien legislation. As I always say in this rostrum, everything about migrants is the last of the last of the last of the last. That's enough! [[Applauds]] He asked the Government: Do you really believe that a situation of female domestic workers can be addressed without touching the requirements and procedure of work permits and acquisition of nationality? Minister, migrant people are my main pattern and everyone knows it. I would really - and I say it is not a trap question - like someone from the government or some ministry to answer that question very honestly. We can't make this law without people and women without papers. [[Applauds]] Without touching the law of aliens it is impossible because, without regularization, this law is incomplete, and we know it, and I am absolutely convinced that the minister knows it. It is that we are tired of any victory being complete, none; we are tired of this Government not moving forward until it is forced to do so. This royal decree comes after a ruling of the ECJ which ruled that a situation which left a household employee without the right to unemployment benefit was incompatible with Community law. That is a success in the judicial battle, but it turns out that this is not the way to enshrine rights. And she explained to me, Mariana, the Galician companion who demanded and brought all the legal remedies available to her until she reached the European courts and obtained her protection, with this royal decree she would still be unable to access the unemployment benefit due to an unjustifiable transitional regime. I'd like you to explain it to me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is enough to stick to the demands of domestic workers. Enough! We need to match rights, we can't wait any longer. It is not the fault of domestic workers that their employers and employers have so far been allowed to hire them without a contribution, it is not the fault of the people. Their social security rights must be immediately implemented, any other regime means ignominy. I will explain a story - and I hope it gives me time because it has a lot to do with what I have talked about here and with this decree -, in 2013 the struggle of Brazilian domestic workers - which was one of the first countries to regulate the work of domestic workers - got a constitutional amendment with the government of Dilma Rousseff that equalized the labour rights of women domestic workers with those of other urban and rural workers. At that time, Bolsonaro was a deputy and was the only vote of the Congress of Brazilian Deputies against the law of domestic workers. It turns out that today Bolsonaro is president and has been dismantling that law obtained in 2013. By the way, next Sunday this is over, because Lula wins. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u98	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u99	The corporal. Why am I talking about Brazil? Because it has a lot to do with Spain: because of the colonial slave heritage, because domestic work without recognized rights... [[Rumours.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u100	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u101	Today is a historic day. I want to start by saying hello to all the women who are in the gallery, to the trade unions, to SEDOAC, to the Homeland, to SINTRA OCU, to the Workers' Commissions, to UGT; to all of you and also to the women who are outside, on the street, listening: Congratulations, congratulations. [[Addressing the guest gallery]] [[Applauds]] Congratulations to all the women you have not stopped until finally this House has recognized you as what you are, as workers, as workers with rights, which is what we have been working for. The truth is that domestic workers have been invisible, ignored and discriminated against. Governments of different colors have allowed women - more than 600 000 in Spain - to have virtually no rights: we talk about having no hours, no leave, no rest, no maternity leave, no unemployment; we talk about not having a contribution, no legal protection, no living on the sidelines; they have worked sick, with pains, without rest, with fear; and the violations you have suffered during the COVID-19 I think they are for a long, very long debate. It is worrying that this country has been so slow to amend such flagrant discrimination. Domestic workers support life and the economy. Today I can't help experiencing feelings found: I feel ashamed, because I wonder why Spain has taken so long. ILO adopted Convention 189 in 2011. Among the many arguments that were written to demand labor and their corresponding rights we found the complaint of serious human rights violations; of this eleven years ago. I wonder if it had taken so long if most of the collective were men, I wonder if it had taken so long if most of the collective were not migrant people, I wonder whether years and years of protectionlessness and discrimination had actually been nothing more than machismo, racism and classism. But I also feel emotion, a lot of emotion, because in all these years - and you know it - homeworkers have not been alone, there are parties in this House that have demanded their ratification and compliance since 2011. [[Addressing the guest gallery]] With humility I say that the first proposal of my parliamentary group as soon as we entered this House in 2016 was precisely for the ratification of Convention 189. And I feel immense pride because today Spain is a little better, fairer, more democratic, more feminist. There are many of us today who feel proud of this Government and this Ministry of Labour; pride also because this Government ratified the convention and the norm - and the norm, ladies and gentlemen - with absolute urgency - and I say this by looking at the benches of the People's Party. We are committed to working to eliminate shameful discrimination like this, to move the country from looking elsewhere to looking at domestic workers in the eye, to extending and expanding labour rights and to guaranteeing human rights. That's why we're here. For that it is worth it that we are here, ladies and gentlemen. On the way we have seen absolutely everything, as governments that listened deaf and approved amendments to delay the adoption of the convention. We are not going to forget, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Amendment 6777 of the general budgets - we are not going to forget it - because we know very well that when you are in the government you will never miss your appointment with the cuts and with the opposition to the new rights. We also have judgments; the Court of Justice of the European Union on 24 February 2022 established - and I quote - that there can be no women workers at a particular disadvantage with regard to workers who are not justified by objective factors and who are outside of any discrimination on grounds of sex. It established that Spanish social security legislation constituted indirect discrimination on the basis of gender. And finally, justice: this June the ratification of ILO Convention 189 was approved and the consequent elimination of any pejorative treatment without objective and reasonable justification for domestic workers. This royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, be honest, goes far beyond the convention and far beyond the sentence, because it recognizes the right to unemployment and compulsory contributions; because it recognizes the right to FOGASA, that is to say, to have coverage in cases of insolvency or competition from employers; it eliminates the withdrawal, that absolutely unprecedented figure that allowed, basically, dismissal without cause and because they will not be excluded from the scope of the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, because this decree guarantees the right to the protection of health and safety equivalent to that of any worker and puts the accent - and this seems to me very important - on the prevention of violence against women because deu n'hi do the one that he hagut d'aguantar. In short, they are rights and more rights. I believe that the quality of a country is also measured by the dignity with which its inhabitants live and today we must congratulate this coalition government. When we act on the path of recognition of rights and solving unjustifiable discrimination we advance as a society and also as a country, and I think this is important. Large policies are never born in desks or government offices, they never go from top to bottom; the big policies, which really change people's lives, are made up of thousands of corners and workplaces, on the street too, always from bottom to bottom. So today, Carolina, Rafaela, Cristina, Donatilda, Carla, Jacqueline, so many who are and have been, so many, this royal decree is yours, it is all of you and of all the women and men who have fought for it, because without you - as you always say - the world does not move. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u102	Thank you so much. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u103	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, when you brought your non-law proposal here to improve the working conditions of female domestic workers back in May, we already told you what VOX thinks about it, that all Spanish workers must be defended; that all Spanish workers have the right to stable jobs with decent wages; that we must combat job insecurity and ensure the reconciliation of families; that we must promote the rise of all wages, especially the lowest ones, and that we must promote stable, lasting and quality employment. We told you to, first of all, make it clear that you always lie when you talk about VOX, but also to show that it is you, all of you - and not us - who, having ruled this country for many years, have discriminated against the household employees' collective. [[Applauds]] You have discriminated against them by denying access to unemployment benefits to date. We also told them that in VOX we give immense value to the work of domestic workers; a work that we know is hard and ungrateful, but also very dignified and indispensable for the community because it depends on it that families can reconcile their working life with their family life. But we also told them what our position was with regard to Spanish families and their needs and we demanded a regulation that encourages and facilitates the recruitment of these much needed workers, because all the women we work outside the home, whatever our condition, we need help even a few hours and because there are families that make a huge economic effort to be able to reconcile their working life with their personal life, to the point that on many occasions they are almost more interested in staying at home than going out to work. Already then we demanded a regulation that would be good for both domestic workers and their employers, a regulation that favors this process by making it simple and that would not put all the economic burden on families. However, now they come and bring this to us and bring it to us in the form of a royal decree so that we do not have the opportunity to amend, contribute or correct. They bring us a law that, on the one hand, proposes the improvement of the conditions of domestic workers but, on the other, discourages their recruitment and encourages the submerged economy, seriously damaging. Frankly, we do not know whether what they intended under this law was for women to stay at home because they were unable to pay for help or for many domestic workers to be left out of work or to end up working without a contract simply because of the need of one or the other. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are full of people talking about women's rights, but with this way of legislating or defending working mothers or domestic workers and, look, you do not even defend immigrants, because the vast majority of domestic workers are legal immigrant women who have left it all behind to build a future among us, who work very hard to live decently and be able to send money to their families and who have made a gap between us on the basis of a great deal of effort. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what's going on? That you can't legislate on matters that belong to families when you hate our families, you can't make a law to improve the working conditions of housewives when you want there to be no homes to work in. [[Applauds]] That's what happens to you. What happens to you is that you hate our families, especially if they are numerous, because only from the hatred of families in general and the many in particular and only from the prejudice that all families who hire help at home are rich can you make a law like this at a time like this, with inflation triggered, with the shopping basket fired, with fuel fired, with light and gas fired. Moreover, they were fired not by war, nor by the pandemic; no, they were fired by their fault, alone and exclusively by their fault and by their disastrous policies. [[Applauds]] Do they not realize that all our families have it much harder today, that there are families that have it even worse because they have more mouths to feed, families whose homes are much harder to maintain because their expenses multiply exponentially? How can they claim that families who already take care of their household employees' social security benefits almost as if they were businesses also take care of 20% of the costs of unemployment contributions and FOGASA? And, worse, how can large families - which I remind them that they are no longer the only ones with many children - thus be harmed by removing the 45% bonus guaranteed by article 9 of the Law on the Protection of Large Families? What need did they have to repeal this article? What better way do we have to spend our tax money than by guaranteeing our workers' rights? What better way to spend it than by helping our families so that they can work and reconcile? [[Applauds]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a dirty move, one of these dirty moves that you so much like to force the parliamentary groups in this House to have to decide who they want more, whether Dad or Mom; to force the groups in this House to choose who we have to leave at the stand, who we prefer to harm, whether the domestic workers - leaving them in the precarious work they now live in - or the large families, who are the ones who make the most effort to get their own people out of the way, who bear the most costs, who contribute the most to our system, who have the greatest need for reconciliation, and who now want to force them to meet property or income requirements to qualify for a bonus, which they have not even had the decency to tell us how they are going to implement and who are absolutely unfair. [[Applauds]] But, of course, this is a usual practice, its Machiavellian and twisted way of acting: mixing matters to confuse the citizens and to throw us in the face afterwards, as they do in every intervention repeating as trained parrots, the cutting of matters to which we have voted but not, obviating that they made us choose between a greater and a lesser evil. It is clear to us what you want, you want confrontation because you live from confrontation and now it is up to us to confront the large families because you know that we cannot vote against this right and leave a group that deserves and needs them without rights. What you want is to end the traditional family and especially the numerous families because for you are the cradle of the values you are wishing to liquidate...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u104	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u105	I'm done, Mr. President. But we have bad news for you, ladies and gentlemen, because in Spain as in Europe it is time for patriots, because for us, ladies and gentlemen, our families are the last hope of this society and our values are those who keep us strong in this battle to save our civilization and our culture. Do not have the slightest doubt that when we govern we will put our families - and especially the large families - back at the heart of all our policies. Thank you very much. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u106	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u107	Very good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the left, do not give us any lessons to defend the most vulnerable while voting against lowering the IRPF to those who receive less and above clap and the government is left with 800 euros of each family for not deflating the IRPF. [[Shows a newspaper headline.-Applause]] You say, Minister, that it has ended with historical discrimination. And there is no lack of reason, but it is that Pedro Sánchez has been in the government for more than four years and, yes, this historical discrimination is ended because you, lords of the government, have been forced to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Justice of February 2022, which ruled and established that the fact that female domestic workers do not have the right to receive unemployment is discriminatory. And, yes, historical discrimination is eliminated thanks to the women who sit in this gallery today and thanks to many of the women who are out working in homes, caring for children and caring for stewards, thanks to all of them. [[pointing to the guest gallery]] [[Applauds]] And what does the People's Party say to this royal decree? It says yes to equalize the working and social security conditions of domestic workers, we say yes to allow access to unemployment benefits and benefits, yes to greater protection, yes to put an end to unfair discrimination, yes to the right to unemployment; in short, you do have the same rights as the rest of the workers. [[pointing to the guest gallery]] But, Minister, right now there are 376 000 female domestic workers who will benefit precisely from these measures, which are those under the special social security scheme, but - according to EPA data - 31% of these workers -175 000 - are part of the submerged economy, one in three female domestic workers will be left out of this protection. As an illustrative example we could put Mr Echenique's assistant. [[Applauds]] And we agree because it is a positive step, but the government forgets that domestic workers do not pay a company, but families and families have not raised their wages by more than 36% since 2018. And we are not opposed to this, let us be clear, because we support work with full rights for women domestic workers, as it cannot be otherwise, but it is up to the Government to help families with social contributions and reduce their burden. Because he forgot to explain, minister, that most of this new contribution will fall on the families. He forgot to explain that families will pay more from 1 October, because they are required to make an economic effort. He forgot to explain that families pay 300 euros more, already deducted the bonus. He forgot to explain that large families will no longer have the 45% bonus of social security contributions under the Law on the Protection of Large Families, by the way, approved by the People's Party. What do they have against large families? Why do they cut this right to families who need it the most? Is this your defense of conciliation and birth? It does not seem the best time to penalize families in general with cuts, and even less the many; it is not the time to go back in conciliation, and it is not the time to cut those with more children, because what families need is help for the care of their children or their elders. If their costs are increased, there will be fewer contracts, hours will be reduced, there will be more economy submerged, more irregular contracts and many women - always the same - will give up work and return to the home to take care of because working will not compensate them economically. [[Applauds]] I will give you a fact: 46,248 domestic jobs have been destroyed since the rule of Pedro Sánchez. And you know why? Because families can't do it anymore. We ask the Government to rectify this. We ask that this royal decree law - which we will support - be treated as a bill, and already announced the amendment of the People's Group not to repeal the bonus to large families hiring domestic workers. Let us give an example: if we take as a reference the annual minimum wage for a full day, 14,000 euros, plus 3600 euros in contributions, this should be added to the contribution of the new unemployment benefit, which will entail 300 euros more expenditure for families, 18,000 euros per year. This isn't a family that can handle it. On the rise of the contributions we have to add - which you like very much to add - inflation, the highest in forty years, which is the most unfair tax that this government is leaving us. This climb must also be accompanied by the shopping basket, which is already unbearable and affects domestic workers, families and all Spaniards. Only in commodities, a family with two children already adds an extra cost of more than 567 euros and, in the case of large families, it is already a drama. It is also necessary to add the return to the school, the most expensive in history, with an average cost of 400 euros per child. And you have to add the increase in mortgage contributions, 1400 euros on average per year. Of course you do, minister; you are doctoring yourself in adding burdens to families and positions in the government. [[Applauds]] Electricity has risen by 121%; sunflower oil by 110%; flour by 41%; pasta by 31%; eggs by 27%. Therefore, it is time to help families, because there is no worse tax than that which treats equally those who earn differently. Note: inflation could be curbed if the government immediately implements President Feijóo's proposal to deflate the IRPF for rents of up to €40,000. Lower the IRPF to the middle and low rents so you have money to buy food, because you are experts in breaking records in collection, more and more: 22,000 million euros more. Return that money to the Spaniards, because they will automatically inject money into the families. And, well, copy back to the People's Party, as the PSOE of the Valencian Community has already done, as they have done in the Basque Country and as Podemos claims in Madrid. They're in a terrible mess. You're a seven-track circus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u108	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u109	And reduce the VAT on fish, meat, oil, pasta and preserves from 10% to 4%. Families will thank you. It's over. Yes to more labour rights for female domestic workers, yes to more support for families and not to remove bonuses for large families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u111	Thank you, President. Good morning. We welcome the fighters from that rostrum over there. [[Point to the guest gallery]] Let me personify you in one person, Elsa Oblitas, from Las Libelulas, a tireless woman who fought for these rights, a Bolivian woman from my land, Barcelona. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, please update the argument, because they are late. Ladies and gentlemen, women domestic workers do not pay the property tax and are not banks, nor are they big oil and electricity companies. There are more than 373,000 working people, almost all of them women, who are going to have rights from now on; not a right, no, rights. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party was born to give voice to the most vulnerable, to those who had no voice. Since then, the history of social conquests has obviously been in the hands of the history of this country and of the history of the socialists. With this royal decree we give voice to a vulnerable and invisible group so far: the domestic workers. We once again discuss one of those reforms of this feminist government with the face of a woman. As U.S. spokesman Podemos said, there are more than 373,000 affiliated people, 95% women and many of them immigrants; a very vulnerable group that sits in the low-band of employment and with the feet anchored in precariousness. Many of them are workers over 50 years of age and with an uncertain future, they contribute to an average contribution base of €630 per month and are therefore subject to minimum pensions, if they charge them. Today it ends with decades of discrimination, we begin a path without ending to reverse that precariousness and we respond to a historical claim. This Royal Decree Act equates domestic workers with the rest of wage earners in working conditions and also in the protection of social security. Finally, women domestic workers will now be entitled to unemployment benefit. He was the only group of working people who didn't have him. So it's social justice. This royal decree therefore fulfils the function of the right to work to protect the most vulnerable part of the labour relationship. As the minister has explained, it implies the acquisition of the right to unemployment, but also access to the FOGASA, which will protect them in the event of the employer's insolvency. By the way, this fact that the bonus of large families has been lost is not true, they do not lie. [[Applauds]] From now on, these workers will have a decent day, a regulated rest, guaranteed pay and, of course, the right to the prevention of occupational risks. In this royal decree, moreover, there is a change of political culture. The thing is, the gentlemen on the right haven't found out. To contribute to social security is not an expense, it is not an obligation they do not want to fulfil. We see that the gentlemen of VOX do not have their domestic workers hired; their spokesman has just said so. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, pointing to the bench of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common: That is what the Lords of Podemos.-Protests]] To contribute to social security is to protect the working party, but also employers, also large families. And, yes, gentlemen, this is the pride of the country. We're proud of the country. We generate stability, certainty, trust, security. As the Minister has said, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the most important laws of this legislature. I'll tell you why, it's easy. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u112	One second, Your Honor. Mr Manso, I beg you not to raise your voice in that way and please allow the speaker to speak properly, as when you participate in any debate. Please remain silent while the speaker speaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u113	I told them that this is one of the most important rules of this legislature, because, first, we once again win new rights in this Chamber, and, secondly, because it is for one of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. They are signs of socialist identity, signs of progressive identity. Gentlemen of the People's Group, what do you want me to tell you? They come to me, they take me out of my chest and they give me these patriotic blows saying yes, yes, yes, yes, but we're not going to believe it. It is not clear to us that his affirmative vote is sincere and convincing, because I insist again that we are used to his lies. [[Rumors]] They lie more than they talk, and the hemerotheque gives faith to it. They lie until they vote and we live under the threat of Mr. Feijoo. Mr. Feijóo tore off his national periploe by offering an interview where he said - I read textually -: If I get to Moncloa, they repeal all those laws that are appealed to the Constitutional Court. We are talking about a dozen laws of the socialist government, that is, the last fifteen years of socialist governments. We talk about the law of equality, we talk about the law of equal marriage, we talk about the law of abortion, we talk about the law of euthanasia. Are you really going to repeal it? If it's a right! It's not an obligation, it's a right. It's miserable to repeal! [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Well, jobs to repeal, why don't we repeal the labor reform? Or the law of the rights of riders, for example? Or the pension? Well, here's where Mr. Feijóo escaped and said, in one of these early entries, that he was going back to the law of 2013. Look, you! He got away. Mr Feijóo has not yet learned that this 2013 law impoverishes pensioners in twenty years. We will not allow that, because the law is already passed and will not be repealed! [[Applauds]] And excuse me if I get so vehemently, but it's just that you don't generate trust. Mr. Feijóo does not generate confidence; he says one thing and the opposite in the same sentence. [[Protests]] Easy, easy, easy, easy, He lies in the same sentence and I refer to the evidence. They had six years and a financial crisis to approve this reform, and they did not. Not only did they not, but they prevented it with amendment 6777 to a law of the Zapatero Government that implied giving rights to female domestic workers. You prevented it and delayed this reform. And, Lords of Citizens, do not remember that you also voted in favour of that amendment, so there are not so many blows to the chest. They were six years old - six years old! - to increase the interprofessional minimum wage, and they did not. They had six years to deflate the IRPF. Today is a reality, the IRPF is deflated. They didn't do anything they said. [[Rumors]] During those six years they cut wages for public workers and domestic workers. They were able to cut down 25% on unemployment protection, which is a bit miserable, despite the economic growth Rajoy was talking about.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u114	It must be over, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u115	I'm done. They have voted against the laws that have made us stronger: more than 20 million members, less than 3 million unemployed, the lowest unemployment rate among young people, the minimum wage of 1000 euros. Domestic workers do not pay property tax, nor are they a bank, nor are they large oil and gas companies, nor do they go on a yacht. Today we give voice to those who could not speak in their day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u117	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the draft Employment Act. I should like to inform you that the Republican and Plural parliamentary groups have requested the enactment of this bill. For the introduction of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u118	Good morning again. I compare myself to this House to present the Employment Bill, a labor law of singular importance, since quality employment is undoubtedly the indispensable substrate for the recovery and future of our companies and our country. It is a text that embodies the commitment of public administrations, businesses, trade unions and public and private entities to the economic and social transformation that our citizenship demands in a complex context, as you know, marked by a pandemic and now by Putin's unjust war in the heart of Europe. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about decent work and professional careers. This is the path that marks the labour reform of 2021 and the commitments made to the European Union under component 23 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which now complete the renewal of active employment policies and the National Employment System enshrined in this Act. This text is not just a law of employment, it is a law of decent employment, the result of academic and institutional studies in which renowned researchers and researchers from different scientific branches have participated, to which today, in the rostrum, I would like to thank them for their collaboration; a thank you that I would like to extend to the social partners and the autonomous communities, who have brought experience and commitment to the design of this code of conduct that will govern the mediation and improvement of the quality of employment. I shall now set out the basic principles on which this new bill is based. The first principle underlying this employment law is the centrality of the concept of employability. For too long we have had narrow employment policies, with short-term prospects, which merely aspired to solving specific situations. In this rule, ladies and gentlemen, employability has a greater dimension and a very clear horizon: the configuration of full and dynamic professional careers. It is not, as in the past, a question of providing short courses. The ambition is greater, reaching out to employed and unemployed people and paying special attention to the processes of crisis and relocation. It also connects, of course, with companies, with their needs and with their expectations. Business crises and relocation policies are, as you know, an essential part of the 2021 labour reform, the employment training mechanisms of which find their essential complement in this law; a law which provides for the recipient of employment services to act as a dynamic subject, treating employment and unemployment not as isolated episodes, but as part of the professional and vital career of people. From the perspective of training, interesting mechanisms of collaboration are set up with educational, business and all subjects who can promote stable and quality work integration, be they public or private; training in techniques, skills and capacity for adaptation and learning, particularly in the field of communication and digital skills. But the key element in this law is the configuration as guaranteed services of individualized and personalized itineraries. We have talked a lot in this House about this. We had an AIReF report, which was never fulfilled and we also had the European Commission's own reflections on the reasons why Spain was not well placed in active employment policies. Well, this corrects this rule. This personal accompaniment, which is essential for employment policies to be effective, will finally be a reality in our country, as the AIReF and also the European Union itself pointed out to us. The law describes in detail the scope of these itineraries and, more importantly, establishes mechanisms to make them real, setting up a context in which sufficient and adequately trained guidance staff exist. We have also talked a lot about this in this House. The second principle underlying the law is the reconfiguration of the institutions and subjects involved in the National Employment System. New governance is being introduced around these new subjects, which must be more coordinated, more realistic and more efficient. The most important point of this new governance is the creation of the Spanish employment agency, which is the result, as you know, of the transformation and modernisation of the current SEPE, which will be at the forefront of the new dynamics of employment policies. The new agency will enable a more effective and functional public employment administration based on the achievement of objectives and the evaluation of results, which will lead to a better and more efficient public service. As you know, not only do we modernise and make this new agency more flexible, but we will be able to enter into agreements with the autonomous communities and we will also be able to incorporate recommendations such as those made within the European Union itself, and this is a real novelty. This agency will be developed in a new context of institutional relations with the autonomous communities, fully respecting their competences and, of course, the constitutional mandate, which will continue to operate around the sectoral conference, but will have enhanced coordination and joint action tools around two instruments: the four-year strategy for active employment support and the annual plan for promoting decent employment. But one of the most relevant aspects of the new employment law is the role that is given to the collaborating entities of the public employment services, both local and private collaborating entities. It is a collaboration that descends to the reality of employment in our country, to the specific place where work is generated and where employability networks are created. As I always tell you, it has nothing to do with the productive model of a Galician region of the interior with that of an Atlantic, that of Castilla-La Mancha with that of Euskadi or that of Valencia with that of Andalusia. It is therefore key that we adjust the employability measures to the specific realities of each of the places in our country. Going to the city, to the village, to the neighborhood, has not only a management improvement effect, but also in the revitalization of the territories, which in the rural area we believe can have a decisive effect. There is another crucial element of coordination in this Act which, as I have told you, brings unity to the system and ensures full rights in the field of employability: the catalogue of guaranteed services and the portfolio of services. Employment services, with their new objectives and purposes, are now formulated as real objective services and are therefore part of the services catalogue, e.g. individualised profiles, continuous mentoring, the right to counselling also for self-employment or the right to effective and effective mediation. The catalogue is an element of coordination, but it is above all a very important factor of commitment to the quality of public employment services. This catalogue of guaranteed services, ladies and gentlemen, is an expression of coherence, coordination and commitment to a law that nurtures reality and the determined will to transform employment policies in our country. The third principle of the Employment Act is the transformation of intermediation mechanisms through accessibility and efficiency. The key element in the new dimension of labour intermediation is the integrated public information system for employment services, a comprehensive information network comprising the Spanish employment agency, the employment services of the autonomous communities, private placement agencies and collaborating entities. This integrated system will serve to break territorial barriers and make it possible for the single employment portal to operate with great agility, allowing it to be matched in its digitised format and in its reach to the most well-known job search portals. This has to do, as you know, with the obligation to communicate vacancies to the Public Employment Service, wherever they go, anywhere in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of intermediation and, in particular, the intermediation of public employment services is an unavoidable challenge. That is why this law is also innovative in establishing the communication of vacancies, as I told you, by companies, but also in converting effective public employment services and in the service of workers and businesses, which is another of the main objectives of this law. Another key aspect is the role that this law gives brokering services in the case of relocation activities in business restructuring processes. As you know, business restructuring processes are moments of great importance and the law provides a framework for high-intensity relocation actions in which multiple subjects can intervene by setting up specific rights and guarantees that ensure the maximum efficiency of recycling and also relocation mechanisms. The fourth principle underlying this law is that of equality and respect for fundamental rights. The whole text offers a cross-cutting gender perspective that fights in all its actions gaps and stereotypes. The Employment Act is fully aware of the importance of employment services in combating gender segregation, and establishes, as a commitment to action, the progressive elimination of feminized and masculinized jobs, as well as their misappreciation. I have said this in my previous speech: equality is the most ambitious project of a society and, therefore, this law is articulated against all discrimination not only on grounds of gender, but also on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation or ethnicity. They are defined as potential beneficiaries of collective priority actions by emigrants, beneficiaries of international protection, women victims of gender-based violence, persons in situations of social exclusion or the group of persons who have abandoned employment services. Victims of terrorism and persons over the age of 45 are also priority groups. Let me highlight them especially, because our country cannot afford to dispense with them just when they probably reach the best level of professionalism. As I announced in this House last Monday, they will be given special attention in the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy and also in the framework of social dialogue with social actors. It is a law that wants to act as an engine of real and effective equality in our country. Finally, the fifth and final principle to which I wish to refer is that of the systems for evaluating policies, actions and objectives, as well as the commitments of this law. The correct evaluation of employment policies has been one of the major missing elements in previous legislation on this subject. This Employment Act not only establishes a strong commitment to evaluation, but also sets out specific evaluation obligations for each and every one of the actions envisaged. The evaluation of employment policies will no longer be a secondary issue and will be a natural part of all measures taken. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. The new employment law that I bring to your attention today is the result of a new look at employability, but above all on the axis of a structural transformation of active employment policies in our country. They are active policies because they take the initiative, because they fight resignation, because they transcend expired solutions that simply patch up periods of unemployment and strive to generate genuine employment opportunities. They are active policies because they adapt to a time when the digitization of our lives is a reality and in which productive models and their relationship with the territories have definitely changed. We will have a Spanish employment agency that will modernize its structure and digitise its tools and contents to gain speed, agility and flexibility. The objective is very clear, and it does not concern only the unemployed, as I have already said, but also the people with jobs involved in processes of change or professional reinvention. This law puts training at the forefront and builds bridges with private administrations, businesses and public entities to achieve this major objective, namely employment and recruitment. We do so with an explicit and enriching dialogue between all the actors in this process in every neighborhood, in every town, in every city, connecting the supply with the demand for employment at the hands of local entities - remember that it was one of the criticisms that we were made from the European Union and also in the considerations of the AIReF - because they are simply the most involved in people's day-to-day lives. It will be carried out with continuous training, with personalized follow-up and mentoring and, as I have indicated, with an annual evaluation and audit system that will allow implementation of all the processes, tools and solutions applied to the improvement of employability. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support a bill that carries within it the collective effort of our society to overcome uncertainty and discouragement. It is a law that is not resigned, that restores confidence in employment solutions and shows us that we can achieve more and better jobs among all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u119	Thank you very much. An amendment to the full refund of the above-mentioned bill has been tabled. For the defence of the amendment, by the VOX Group, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u120	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If I may, before I go into this matter, I will express something to you in a colloquial tone: how does it smell like budgets! How it smells like budgets! I say this because we are witnessing how some parliamentary groups are already starting to withdraw and withdraw parliamentary initiatives that are contrary to the Government. That's the face of the matter, but the one we'd like to know is the other, the dark one, the one we don't see. In exchange for what have you withdrawn your amendment to this whole unemployment law, gentlemen of the PNV? Because it's a law of unemployment. In exchange for about twenty amendments, as the press says, or in exchange for something else? How much is it going to cost the rest of the Spaniards to keep their privileges and their uniqueness? As you can see, with the government of Pedro Sánchez in Spain, minorities are governed by a handful of votes that artificially keeps them a few more months in Moncloa. Nothing new with the PNV. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, check it out. As far as the bill before us is concerned, the way we see it already starts wrong because it brings the wrong title, because from its reading we infer that it is a law of unemployment that regulates unemployment and the public administrations that manage. However, we do not perceive measures that really aim to generate stable and quality employment with clear and concise proposals, this being the priority and nuclear issue in Spain. Our amendment to the entire bill - which I imagine will have been read, or not - is presented as a denunciation of the political and philosophical spirit of a sectarian and ideological initiative that we receive in our text with arguments. Its bill forms a regulatory framework aimed at an administrative architecture that manages unemployment. In the face of what might be expected from an employment law that would promote the growth of quality work, the text is limited to presenting insufficient active employment policies in a new framework of institutions to regulate them and which will generate more inefficiencies, administrative duplication and unnecessary public spending. In this scenario, the perversaideology of the Government of Spain permeates the whole normative body posed in which the discrimination between the Spaniards is the protagonist of the labor model it poses. [[Applauds]] The text does not handle a single measure that generates labour market growth or improvements in the protection of Spanish workers. Analysis of labour market gaps and shortcomings is vague and imprecise, while it does not propose solutions that provide long-term answers. However, we already see every day how the minister applauds herself for the good that, according to her, the labour market is functioning thanks to her pseudo-reform, so, by giving her a little ink and re-baptised makeup the employment contracts, she presumes a stable labour market in which the indefinite contracts multiply. Of course, Minister, you have banned temporary contracts and penalized them. That is to say, you encourage indefinite recruitment at a time of punishment, which does not favour long-term contracts, but punishes temporary recruitment. The stimulus, therefore, that you offer to indefinite recruitment is a sanction to the other hiring. [[Applauds]] So, logically, companies are fleeing the penalty. It's a matter of survival and logic. You don't have to be too smart to come to that conclusion, Minister. Fear and fear of your sanctions are the only incentive you offer companies to carry out indefinite contracts. This is what you do, rather than promoting an enabling climate based on long-term legal certainty and real incentives for stable recruitment. That is, this Government, instead of rewarding excellence, punishes disobedience to its impositions. Communism manual. In this sense, companies, as you know, are bound, yes or yes, to those contracts called indefinite, which does not mean that they will be extended over time or that they will be stable because, as you know, companies, if they cannot bear the costs, in addition to adjusting energy consumption, also adjust the templates by redundancies, unfortunately. You know what has raised the bill of light, inputs, the price of materials and fuel. No, you don't know, you don't know because you live in your fantasy world. I'd like to know if you know the pain it brings for any self-employed or for any SME to fire a worker. Maybe you have no idea why, since you've never hired a worker, you don't even know what it means to fire him. [[Applauds]] We must therefore not look at the name of the contract itself, but rather at the actual and actual duration of the contract in the long term. I invite you to do that analysis and bring it here to the House one day at a hearing. What is the actual duration of indefinite contracts, on average, which have been formed from their labour reform? But the real indefinite ones, not those fixed discontinuous ones that you speak of that already exist decades ago and that you have not invented them, minister. A fixed discontinuity is a temporary contract accumulated in the year, nothing more. You don't stop cheating on the loner. Bring us that statistics and you will check the reality of the stability of the labour market in Spain. I'll give it to you in advance. In view of the impossibility, as I said, of making temporary contracts to meet temporary needs, some companies resort to such indefinite recruitment, but days before the end of the probationary period, they do not have to pay compensation without the worker. The number of people who do not exceed this probationary period has increased - I told you two weeks ago - by nine compared to last year, before its reform came into effect. The probationary period lasts between two and six months depending on the position and, from July 2021 to July 2022, this case for termination of contracts has increased by more than 900 %. We will also highlight the overall increase in dismissals due to objective causes by 234.7 %, voluntary reductions by 258 % and involuntary reductions by 320.9 %. You like the data and I give it to you for study. [[Applauds]] So, to a greater extent and as it could not be otherwise, this law that we amend today goes in line with its creation of more public bodies, which will generate administrative duplication and more unnecessary public spending at a time when the Spaniards do not arrive at the end of the month. And, of course, the gender ideology that has emerged, with a breakdown of the labour market in what you call collectives, labeling workers for a single trait that, curiously, almost always coincides with sex or sexual orientation. What an obsession you have with this! It's just that it's tired and sick! [[Applauds]] We say no to the introduction of gender criteria in labour legislation and not to the acritical follow-up of the positions of the 2030 Agenda for the sake of a so-called new society, which is neither new nor society, while emphasizing the differences of those who are equal in the assumption of rights, responsibilities and freedoms. People are people, and we all have the same obligations and rights, according to that status of person. The same rights to have access to a job, to have access to education and to have access to health, regardless of our exo, our beliefs and our race, and it is already in our Constitution. Therefore, your law is clearly discriminatory because, rather than ensuring equal opportunities for access to a job, what you do is prioritise one another according to whether certain features or characteristics of some people you like more or less than others; that is, confrontational policies. What you call inclusion, in fact, is exclusion from the sphere of your policies to a part of society. [[Applauds]] Change the concept of inclusion to that of equal opportunities and it will be much better for the Spaniards. With regard to the reality of unemployment that you intend to manage with this absurd law - see if it will be bad the law that even the unions that you have on pay in your ministry have complained and so they have said - you should focus on the data of the unemployment of people over forty-five years old - which you have mentioned earlier - and on those of young people so that they can find a stable and quality job with a remuneration according to their decent qualification that allows the former to maintain a sufficient working life until the retirement age and our young people to work a future. By the way, it turns out from the law that for you young extolled, mainly foreign, have priority over the rest; another exclusionary inclusion, right? Look, an equique union, of its own, denounces that long-term unemployed people continue to live a drama in our country, people around one and a half million, who have been seeking employment for more than a year, while more than 600,000 have been living for more than four years, an alarming figure. For this union, the solution to this social drama is to improve an insufficient employment law and that has been adopted without social dialogue through the promotion of more effective active employment policies, which adapt to the specific reality of each person and achieve a rapid reintegration into work, because people who have been unemployed for a long time, without the possibility of obtaining a job, as you know, are caught in a spiral that, in addition to compromising their economic survival, damages their mental health and therefore diminishes their role in society and their dignity. But you give it to me that I hit you with the gender, which is what goes for them. The bill does not focus on the equality of Spaniards and does not even intend to do so. As I have just said, these sectors, both young and over 45 years of age, deserve the priority attention of a responsible and truly committed Government to meeting the needs of those who have the most difficulty finding a job. The regulation of a matter as far-reaching as employment requires seriousness, impartiality and a sense of State in order to be carried out under the appropriate conditions. It also requires ambition, illusion and will to rid ourselves of this structural unemployment that we suffer in Spain, fuelled by a system that has been carried away by the ideological velocities of the left opposed to effort, meritocracy, hard work and material progression. [[Applauds]] Values such as effort, merit and innovation must set out decent employment, with the aim of enabling the proper development of entrepreneurship, while strengthening the protection of workers and, in a corresponding way, of Spanish families through the stability and quality of jobs.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u121	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u122	I'm on my way. But there is hope and soon the Spaniards will be able to decide their future and will do so with a sense of responsibility because in Spain, as in Europe, it is the time of the patriots. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u123	Thank you. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the handling of this bill, to which we will, however, table amendments to integrate the perspective of unpopulated areas as well as their employment problems and the difficulties in generating and attracting talent. We are very concerned about this bill, but I would like to highlight two. On the one hand, the imperative need for the Public State Employment Service to get out of the routine and operate with levels of excellence so that people who are unemployed can find a path of counselling and training and, above all, a job. Active employment policies must be linked to the reality of the street. On the other hand, we are concerned about its projection on the territories of emptied Spain. The difficulties in finding employment and the lack of employment opportunities mark the day-to-day lives of many people living in rural areas and unpopulated provinces. Although there are contrasts between autonomous communities and provinces, in a number of rural municipalities, curiously, unemployment rates are low, yes, but in these cases there are very few job seekers because they have simply left. The existence of employment and employment opportunities is the best resource for reversing depopulation, but both quality employment and opportunities, especially for women, are currently lacking in these provinces, while the emigration of trained young people and the loss of talent is a characteristic of emptied Spain. Therefore, creating employment opportunities for people living in unpopulated areas and helping to close this employment gap that opens up between the possibilities of large cities and the difficulties of unpopulated areas should be a priority objective of employment policies that permeate the entire bill. Many of the territories of Spain that have been emptied require priority attention in employment policies, in line with article 1 of the draft law, which proposes to contribute to job creation and reduction of unemployment, to improve employability, to reduce structural gender gaps and to promote social and territorial cohesion, and also in line with article 53, which in its point 3 indicates that, in general, active employment policies will promote quality employment, indefinite and full-time employment, decent wages, and geographical mobility towards rural areas that are depopulated or at risk of depopulation. That is the way, Minister, to be explored if the rural guarantee mechanism is to be present throughout this important piece of legislation. That is why during the course of the procedure we will present amendments in order that these objectives are properly reflected in the article of the law and reach the active policies...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u125	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u126	... employment in its local dimension and the content of the annual plans for the promotion of employment and is also covered by the objectives of the services and programmes to be managed by the Spanish Employment Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u127	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that Spain has pending subjects which have missed the progress of society. The technological change and the modification of the current catalogue of occupations and occupations require all public and private institutions to invest and take on the challenge of accompanying and customizing our labour forces. There is a need for deep labour market reform and a radical change in employment policies. That is why we cannot say anything else that was now. However, he announced that we recorded amendments to the text because, once again, they forget the singularities of the Canary Islands, starting with the island cabildos, with extensive powers transferred from the autonomous community, which have historically played and played a decisive role in the socio-economic development of each of the islands, so we demand that they be taken into account as promoters and promoters who are of the formation and occupation linked to the particular characteristics and demands of each of the island territories. The role of lobbyists and their involvement in the development of active employment policies must be defined in the new law. Employment dynamics on the islands are substantially particular and fragile in the face of any economic uncertainty. The remoteness, fragmentation and the limited and protected territory reduce the possibilities for development and reduce specialization to a few possible and sustainable sectors. The ORs therefore have special economic and fiscal considerations which seek to combat the high levels of unemployment and poverty in all these European regions. We will therefore ask that the Spanish activation strategy for employment take into account the particularities of the archipelagos and have specific strategies that respond to their uniqueness. I must confess to you that my biggest surprise has been to discover that here they continue not to know that the Comprehensive Employment Plan of the Canary Islands is not a graceful or capricious tool, but rather responds to the need for an insularultraperipheral territory with differentiated measures that allow its population to approach on equal terms the opportunities to the continental territory, which is why the Canary Islands has a differentiated economic and fiscal regime that has already reached fifty years and that is mandatory. Our REF sets out the obligation to implement measures aimed at reducing the high structural unemployment rates of a single community. The EIP must be guaranteed and the expression'may participate' cannot be used as a right of the canaries and canaries in their statute and in their REF. This is unnegotiable because so far the current minister and the current government have complied, but at certain times it has not been fulfilled, and we do not have to thank for this because it is a right of the canaries and we must have it guaranteed in the future, as it was in the previous Employment Act with the status of ultraperipheral region of the Canary Islands and also in the European Treaty and in European employment policies. That is why we are going to table these amendments to this bill and we are stalling, because we believe that the amendment of the PNV has weight, our vote in the morning. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u129	Thank you. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm on guztioi. I am going to divide the intervention into two parts: in the first I am going to refer to the amendment to the whole of the extreme right that has been presented and in the second I am going to talk about the contents of the Employment Act itself. With respect to the first, I'll make you a confession. I am certainly not the only one, but it happens that in many passages of the debates that take place in the long sessions of this Congress to you what you hear here or what you read in the texts evokes other situations, other moments or even other realities, and parallelisms are established. These days, when I've been hearing so much about patriot time or patriot time, I can't forget François Pignon and The Dwarf's Dinner. They're just curious things that happen. The same happened to me when I read this text - I read it - because I could only imagine that who had written this was Adenoid Hynkel from his throne in Tomania and that he did it within the role he played in the film The Great Dictator, by Charles Chaplin. But I was able to see something else. In this text they have decided to exorcise all their demons, regurgitate their lowest passions and in the end present us with a miscellany that gathers all the theories QAnon, the theories of the Tea Party, or even the strangest theories of Europe, so as to be able to speak of globalism, of the Agenda 2030 and, of course, of the theory of The Great Replacement, because that is, in short, the text of the amendment to the totality that is presented to us. By going to some passages of it, we are told that the text is ideological. Of course, the lordships of the far right have no ideology and are candid souls who seek the well-being of all; there is no ideology behind the far right. Moreover, for more inri, they use a thinker, Roger Scruton, who is but the founder of The Salisbury Review and who is but the one who accused Margaret Thatcher of being too progressive; he had to be more conservative. But, of course, the extreme right has no ideology. They are surprised and almost offended that in this House, with quite an element of recurrence, they are told that their speeches are xenophobic and sexist, but, if you see the text they have presented, you find pearls like this: where the law says that you have to set objectives to promote the social integration of migrants, which seems to be something reasonable, they confer that you are prioritizing young foreigners above the Spanish. But no, they're not xenophobes. They're going beyond that. On page 10 they say that immigration regulation is necessary to make it legal, orderly and according to the needs of the labour market. They're pieces, they're not people. But they go further, use the word ordered, and again, evoking other realities, one remembers when the Nazis, the neo-Nazis and the racists said that blacks had to be in Africa and Europeans in Europe, but that they were not racist, but orderly. Well, that's kind of his reality. When they talk about sexism, something similar happens to them, because they do a very curious thing and it is to turn to article 35 of the Spanish Constitution to reverse the burden of proof, and then they say that, as in that article, apart from drawing attention to the right and duty of the work of all the citizens of the Spanish State, it is also said that there must be no discrimination on grounds of sex, any policy of positive action that is done is in itself a discrimination and, therefore, a violation of the Constitution. It's hard to find a major delusion. It is true that in the text they try to show a certain empathy or understanding towards the working class, and they talk about the freedom of relationship between employers and workers, which seems to be happening now. Ask the condemned in Xixon of the CNT for that friendly and friendly relationship between entrepreneurs and workers! But they say more things, they say we have to look for stable, lasting and quality jobs, and for that we think, also on page 10 of their initiative, of reducing the social contributions of employers and not of workers, which I suppose they will have lower wages than employers. In other words, it is the employers who do not contribute to social security and then we will see what the workers charge when they go to unemployment. This is probably in line with what her friends from Italy, including Mrs Meloni, are proposing these same days, which is to withdraw the guarantee income, which is the equivalent of the Minimum Vital Income or the Income Guarantee Income of the CAV, for the people who enjoy it in Italy. All understanding for the working class. And they go further, they talk about the culture of effort, meritocracy, hard work and material progression. If I said at the beginning that all these things evoke passages from history or passages from other realities, I will not deny that this has also done it to me, because, in the end, talking about hard work, material progression, meritocracy and effort looks quite surely like what, those who put arbeit macht Frei in Auschwitz, wanted to point out: 'The work will make you free'. In short, they intend to put everything up with their initiative, as the inspirer who seems to rule Italy already did. Actually, the only one who ended up on that occasion was him at a Milan gas station. But I am already focusing on the Employment Act itself, which raises different elements, and I want to point out only some because I have only two minutes left. He talks about active employment policies and we agree, but passive policies are still lacking, there is still a lack of attention to the mandate of Basque society and the mandate of the Basque Parliament, for example, with a 2017 motion on the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu - there have been more initiatives by the Basque Government itself and others, but by taking this mandate from 2017 - which urged the Government of the State to transfer passive employment policies. This was proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu, but supported by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and Unitas Podemos. It would therefore not have to be difficult for this step to be taken with the forces that make up the Government. They also speak of the effectiveness of public and employment services and of providing them with more human and material resources, and it is well and we agree. I think it is good to know that in the Spanish State the ratio of public employment service workers to each jobseeker is one worker for 330 people; in the United Kingdom it is one for 22 people; in Germany, one for 47 people; and in France, one for 66 people. There is a lot of work, therefore, to do. We think it is right to talk about quality employment and proper placement because it is important not to penalise the unemployed who do not accept any offer at any price, obviating the Minimum Interprofessional Wage and obviating the distance they have to travel. We must not forget that the need forces us to accept job offers that are not decent, and what needs to be done is not to force the workers, but to protect them, because that is the true reality, that of the scourge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u131	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u132	I'm on my way. They also talk about equal opportunities, and that is fine with us. We think we need to talk about co-responsibility at work and care. All these things that I have pointed out will be referred to in amendments. I'll finish with a question. In this House we often talk about that with social dialogue, everything, and without social dialogue, nothing, and it seems that those of us who sometimes vote against things that are not endorsed by social dialogue are faced with the reality of the working class. Today I am voting for this because, although it does not have the support of social dialogue, I believe that I am doing the whole working class a favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u133	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u134	I left it on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It says the explanatory statement of this royal decree law that is promoted as a result of component 23 of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, whose purpose is to promote in the framework of social dialogue the reform of the labour market, to adapt it to the reality and current needs, to correct its weaknesses in order to reduce structural unemployment and youth unemployment, to correct duality, to improve human capital and to modernise collective bargaining and thereby to increase efficiency and effectiveness in public employment policies. Therefore, these proposals include strengthening the instruments of the National Employment System, active employment policies and also system governance, as well as strengthening or implementing the actions provided for in the active employment policy plan. In this sense, as the explanatory statement expressly points out, although it is not then brought to its final disposition tenth, we understand that the competitive framework enshrined in this text is that of employment policies, understood in the sense of what the explanatory statement itself points out, and therefore that of the bases and coordination of the overall planning of economic activity as provided for in Article 149.1.13 of the Constitution and, consequently, also Article 10.25 of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and its exclusive competence in promoting economic development and economic activity planning, in accordance with the general management of the economy. In this way, some separation from the strictly labour market is also accepted, although it is not characteristic in employment policies, and it is also avoided limiting the ability to act autonomously to the mere implementation of labour legislation. It is precisely this characterization that I have just made that led my group to present a complete amendment to this approach - rather, the absence - on the understanding that those determinations concerning the governance of the system, its planning instruments - in particular, the characterization of the public employment services and the definition of their organisational structure - to that of its staff or even in the development of active employment policies, the regulatory context of employability from its definition to the definition of the service catalogue involve an excess incompatible with the existing competition division and even with the transfers already made by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country through Royal Decree 1441/2010. To this end, it should be recalled that the services transferred to Euskadi are no more than all the functions which, in connection with the implementation of labour law in the field of employment, employment and vocational training for employment, the State administration has been carrying out through SEPE and in its detail, which includes those of intermediation, promotion and support for employment, vocational training for employment, vocational training centres, executive commissions of the State Employment Service, monitoring and information on employment and even the exercise of sanctioning power. In this sense, we believe that Article 7 of this text also differentiates conceptual realities such as employment policy, employment promotion and labour legislation, corresponding to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in our case and possibly, as Mrs Oramas has claimed, also to other autonomous communities, the organization of these services, their structure and their staff both if they act in execution functions and if they do so in the management of their economic activity. In addition to this, the draft law omits the specific characterisation of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, since, for the purpose of financing these costs associated with programmes and activities in the field of work, employment and vocational training, it refers to the transfer itself to the percentage corresponding to the imputation rate used for the calculation of the quota, in accordance with Law 12/2002 approving the Economic Concert. For this reason, and as those who do not understand but who criticize this tool should know, the Basque Country does not participate in the Sectoral Employment Conference, in which funds for the support of these services are distributed, but it is its own budget that supports all the transferred services. Madam Minister, it is to the Basques that their full funding corresponds, and in this sense we do not receive a single euro from any Spanish institution. The truth is that much of these objections have already been discussed with the ministry, and it is not only their willingness to dialogue but also to the agreement that has led us to an understanding when it comes to being able to translate into future partial amendments all these aspects that make the Basque employment system a unique system. And it's singular; we don't say it's either better or worse, but singular. Therefore, what we called for in the amendment as a whole was respect for that own ecosystem, which is why, once we have reached a certain degree of understanding, we thought it appropriate to withdraw our amendment; that is why, of course, the policy is to reach agreements. In addition to completely rejecting the delirious content of a proposal for an amendment to the whole of VOX, we consider that the capacity of understanding from this forum but also outside it, within the framework of the dialogue that takes place in all instances, is what characterizes a healthy policy, a policy that leads to understanding, a policy that addresses the satisfaction of the interests of each and every individual, not of the patriots, nor of the Spanish patriots. I am neither a patriot nor a Spaniard, I am very clear, but in any case, I am going to try to obtain, through the exercise of my parliamentary activity and dialogue, the satisfaction of the guarantees that men and women seeking employment, who need some degree of social protection, can obtain through my political activity, mine and that of my group. That is why, of course, we have resolved those differences and withdrawn the amendment as a whole and, of course, emphatically rejected the delirious VOX proposal, and we will certainly vote against this amendment as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u135	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u136	President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice President, good afternoon now. We are talking about employment, the great Spanish problem, the Achilles heel of our country. And I read the legislative initiative presented by the government and I also read the amendment to the whole of VOX, and the world is falling to my feet as I see that we are facing the umpteenth opportunity lost for Spain. Look, it's not like we're asking for serious reforms. Any citizen with common sense knows that modernising active employment policies is essential and urgent. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, disappointment, because this bill has more rumbling than revolutionary. Even the name they have given him, the Employment Act, is quite an overstatement, as if it were an all-encompassing and life-saving labour market law. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that at no time in the last two decades has Spain managed to reduce by 20% the number of unemployed who have been seeking employment for at least a year? It's 20 years and 20% of the unemployed. They are shameful figures, which do not hide that active employment policies are not working; they are shameful figures, which show how bipartisanism has systematically refused to make profound and far-reaching reforms. There is an affluent complacency, which translates into suffering and need for many Spaniards. According to the EPA - attention -, we are two percentage points short of the fact that the majority of the unemployed in Spain are already of long duration. It is tragic and must be reversed urgently and courageously, Vice-President. We need to overcome once and for all the apathy and patches of bipartisanism. We need new ideas, courageous, modern and effective reforms, and we need, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and ladies and gentlemen of the PP, to keep the truth to the Spaniards, looking them in the eye, speaking to them as adults and with sincerity. In Citizens we no longer know what else to do to denounce the precariousness and lack of opportunities in our labour market. We have always argued that Spain has an obligation to revolutionize employment and training policies so that they can really help the unemployed and help them find a job. Since we entered this House in 2015, we have not stopped proposing reforms, and now I am telling you again some, so careful, they take pencils and paper, because you can then copy them: one, we must equip the public employment services with a system of statistical profiling and individualised work orientation to adapt training to the needs of each unemployed person, and not to the needs of the trade unions; two, we must use the data available from public administrations and collaborate with the private sector so that workers find work more easily, crossing supply and demand; three - this will please you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party - we must be able to systematically evaluate all employment policies, ending once with useless courses; four - they are also going to like it - we must end the fraud of training courses, putting resources for training directly into the hands of the unemployed; five, we must reward those training centres with better results of employability. That's five examples I'm transferring you, Vice President. We share with you the objective of the law, but there are many aspects that create us doubts. Some of them seem interesting, in quotes. For example, can you explain how the conversion of SEPE into an agency will automatically bring a more digitized and modern service? I guess by the art of magic, because changing one legal regime for another, which I know, doesn't suddenly make digitization appear if it doesn't have resources and there's no will. Digitization does not magically appear because of the change of legal regime. The sad reality, beyond its propaganda, is that, if those resources and that will have been lacking in SEPE during all these years, I must be skeptical to believe that it will suddenly appear with this norm. And another example, another aspect that we find interesting or that can give rise to doubts is that of what space will be left to private placement agencies in the integrated public information system of employment services. If they cannot bring any added value to that system, I do not know how their existence and their integration will be argued. In any case, Vice-President, all these doubts that we have raised from my parliamentary group are issues that we have an interest in resolving through amendments to the wording of this law. In our view, there is nothing in this bill that motivates his return, and less, as VOX points out in his amendment to the whole, such as that this law is of Marxist cut or that seeks the dismantling of the foundations of civilization. I am sorry, because if VOX, Mrs Cañizares, had proposed an alternative text here along with her return amendment, we would be discussing something else, perhaps we could even discuss and buy some of her ideas on the labour market. But the total absence of an alternative proposal and being placed on the no for the no is certainly not the philosophy of the liberals, of my parliamentary group, and more on an issue as important to us as this is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u137	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. We will vote against the amendment to this Employment Act tabled by VOX in its entirety because we do not share its reasons at all. We already know that VOX is here to defend its Spain and the great entrepreneurs, the rich, but the BNG is here to defend Galicia and the workers and the popular classes. They are therefore conflicting and irreconcilable interests. The BNG always knows which side to be on, with the social and firm majorities against fascism. But it cannot therefore be inferred that we agree with the content of the Employment Bill, which we have already announced that we will be submitting amendments, and that, if there is no substantial change, it will not be able to count on the support of the BNG for its final approval. This project is a new missed opportunity, in our view, to move forward on real employment policies that will improve the current situation in the world of work. It is also clear, however, that this proposal is incardinated in a tough package of reforms which, while still denying it, has been imposed by the European Union as a condition for receiving European funds. Let us remember the recent new labour reform, which did not derogate from the previous ones, the pension reform, of which part is still lacking, and the opening up to privatization through enterprise pension schemes. What forms this text is directly a privatization of INEM, SEPE and placement services, as it allows for outsourcing to private entities of all services, leaving them to the ETTs and private placement agencies. All this is reworded in a State Employment Agency that goes into regulating not only state issues, but the services themselves of the autonomous communities, in a clear and flagrant invasion of competition. In short, this is an unfair proposal from a social and also absolutely centralizing point of view. On the subject of this, a topical reflection that I think is appropriate. When we see situations such as Sunday in Italy, there is no point in regretting if we do not act accordingly. And the reality is that, when the left renounces, disarm ideologically and does not give the battle, fascism advances. Take note, therefore, and comply with your commitments to the people and peoples. In conclusion, allow me to remind you, since we are talking about employment today, of the pressing situation of the Galician trawler fleet, which, after the total closure of these 87 caladeros arts, will be affected by the disaster. [[shows a sign, which reads: 'Galiza lives from fishing. We defend there']] It involves the direct destruction of jobs and a brutal blow to the entire Galician economy. The Government must react forcefully by vetoing this decision. Here we are also defending employment in Galician fishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and Vice-President. With regard to the subject we are dealing with on this agenda item, the Employment Bill and the amendment to the whole that has been tabled, the truth is that the easy thing would be to resort to the classics of our employment speeches and say here those phrases that the best subsidy is to find a job, that generating wealth and generating opportunities and employment is what it is all about, and that is certainly more effective than ever, but it is also necessary to start talking clearly and forcefully that there is a right to work but also a duty to work. The Employment Act can also be an opportunity, an opportunity to regulate everything relating to employment but also to regulate what is the active commitment in the search for employment with the aids and routes that the law can generate, and this means training and this means an instrument offering offers, as pointed out earlier. I do not think that there are any offers in SEPE or in the future agency that do not comply with labour law, and perhaps, if this has happened, that is what needs to be corrected. And we must also correct another issue, which is that of the Spanish paradox that we discussed the other day in the Labour Committee, that of the weight of active occupation policies and passive occupation policies. In this area, it must be pointed out that passive policies, those relating to subsidies, constitute - it is calculated - 83 % and, instead, active policies, those intended for which people can be employed, which can improve only 17 %. Changing this is, without a doubt, one of the challenges that this law can address, along with seeking effectiveness in the functioning of the system or public-private collaboration - you know that from PeCAT we are strong advocates of public-private collaboration, not leaving it all in the hands of an agency - a collaboration that even has two fronts, one of which, which you sometimes forget, is that of the third non-profit sector. Many times they also do this job of integration, and in this area it is also necessary to be recognized in order to make it easier for them to intervene in areas where job offers or the profile of people accessing these jobs are usually not very abundant. And the same is true of private entities, in which I believe we can try to adjust these information requirements a little more, because I always end up denouncing that there is sometimes a double standard between the public administration and what is required of individuals, because asking them for all this information will end up affecting their normal functioning as a company, and yet the government, the public administration sometimes does not support this data when we talk about algorithms and bots, so we have to find a balance in this area of obligations in relation to technological information. The competition issue, without a doubt, we also want to look at it calmly. I believe that the law has a tendency to unify different subjects, so that it does not fully respect the competition system or the competences of the Generalitat de Catalunya, in the case that affects us. In any case, what we are dealing with is the amendment to the whole, which we are not going to support, of course; a pindola argumentary which serves to win a few minutes in Congress and launch the slogans of the week but which brings little more than returning the Government's project. And we, honouring the title of this Employment Act, are also going to work hard on working on it and looking for what amendments can improve it, what agreements we can achieve...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u141	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u142	Yeah, I'm done with the president. ...and make sure this ends up being more a success story than a return story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u143	Thank you. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u144	Good afternoon now, good afternoon, everybody. Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. We are not going to lose a second in the VOX amendment, we are not interested in anything, really. That being said and passing on to the law we are dealing with, because we have little time now, although we will have it at the time of the amendments, I want to say a few things. To this day, unemployment benefits and active employment policies are not enough for us to tackle the problem of unemployment and all the consequences that it entails. The reality is that today we continue to have hundreds of thousands of poor workers, excessive seasonality, job offers for our young people who force them to leave, job offers that do not cover travel expenses and hundreds of thousands of people who are still forced to be fake autonomous or autonomous not of their own free will - that is another interesting issue - because there are many people who become autonomous not because they want to or are their vocation but because, if not, they do not work. Faced with this, the current palliative measures are not enough, and we do not hide from reality. Too many people are on contracts that last four days, are indefinite, temporary or fixed discontinuous, and, if they last four days, the problem persists and remains precarious, paints it as they paint it. Many others are hired on a part-time non-voluntary basis, and in both cases they fail to generate entitlement to unemployment benefits, or not to the extent sufficient to maintain a decent life or to be able to find a new job. That is why we need to address contributory benefits and we are grateful that this law, but also care, is being addressed, and we need to make life easier for the citizen, because when a person is unemployed, the last thing he or she wants is to play an escape room with SEPE. Although I have already said that we will have time to talk about it, I have to say that at the moment SEPE in Catalonia does not work, and it is unacceptable, sad and perverse that it is suffered by people who are in a situation of need and despair, and there is no right. I've consulted before I came here, and what I'm saying is no falsehood. When someone is between the sword and the wall and addresses the SEPE and they do not answer the phone, it is indecent - it is not exaggerated, they can prove it right now - or when, without an answer, they fight with the web and do not solve anything, or worse, when they present themselves at the door of the office and do not attend to them - put themselves for a moment on their skin -. SEPE is a drama right now you have to solve it, call yourself what this agency is called. Any policy that is not accessible to people automatically becomes a bad policy. That's why this law is important so that that doesn't happen, and we're going to be working side by side for it. And I was saying that this is not arranged with a change of name or legal nature, call it SEPE or call it State Employment Agency. What a desperate person needs, because his life goes by, is to be cared for, and that's not happening. We are independentists and, of course, we will continue to fight for it, but we are always to improve everything that is much better, and here we will also be to improve this law. We know that the current basic legislative development of active employment policies is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, in spite of us. However, I want to briefly recall one thing that we sometimes forget. Too often you start listening to state social security agencies, state employment agencies, and we don't like that. We almost longed for those acts that we were doing in Zaragoza - I don't know if you remember - when the fairies were out trying to hit us when we were talking about plurinationality, plurilingualism, because it seems that now we have a little forgotten some cosillas. Some issues need to be recuperated, as comrade Oskar Matute said. Social dialogue is very important, and I do not remember that wages increase because yes, neither when they go well nor when they go badly, and sometimes you have to force the machine a little bit; but I don't talk about class struggle, which would be another issue. Anyway, let's move on, and get to the point. I would like to recall briefly that the management of these active employment policies is transferred to the Autonomous Communities, despite the interference of SEPE. Then, first of all, we have to take advantage of this law to end once and for all the doubles - because here everything is doubled -, the inefficiencies of the State, the shortage of human and material resources with those doubles, and the confusion of the citizenry. And with the same idea, it is essential to address funding. Life does not take place within the time limits that are appropriate for the administration. It makes no sense that each year the sectoral conference will allocate a item that will have to be re-discussed the following year. Major challenges, such as re-industrialisation or youth unemployment, cannot be tackled only in the short term. We need to be able to act with far-reaching approaches, and to do so we need the transfer of competences and multi-year funding from the autonomous communities that wish to do so. And in the same vein, it makes no sense to penalize responsible resource management. According to the self-management capacity of each Administration, unexecuted funds and remittances should be allowed to be incorporated into the next financial period, without a decrease of those; I do not know if I can explain myself. The first obligation of any law is to be clear, not to create insecurity, and here too there are some things that we would have to modify. In this regard, the Economic and Social Council requested clarification of article 26 on private employment entities. There are also aspects of labour reform that affect employment policies and, after nine months since their publication, they continue to be controversial. We are referring, among other things, to the fifth additional provision of this rule, and we need to fine-tune it a little further. Finally, as we indicated at the beginning, we need all the tools to combat unemployment and precariousness. We therefore call on the self-governing communities that wish to do so to fully manage employment policies, both in terms of assistance and contribution, and believe that this law is a good opportunity for this. In that sense, our constructive amendments will go, because the subject is not for frivolities. You also said it, it is not the same the working situation of Galicia as that of the Valencian Country or that of Catalonia. So, I think it's important that the administrations that are closest to the place can have this autonomy when it comes to management. In short, we'll have time to talk, and here we are to see if we don't distance ourselves any further and get a little closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u145	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos Galicia en Comú, I have the floor, Mrs Vidal Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u146	Someone might say that in VOX they are more of a legacy than of working, but it is true that the amendment they are putting forward has a certainjundia; there is no place to take it, but it has a certainjundia. I believe that you are disconnected from the working reality, but above all, you are disconnected from yourselves. Here you mention policies that you do not practice. They claim to be in favour of decent wages, but VOX has not supported the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage. Nor did it in Europe, where they voted against guaranteeing minimum wages to enable workers to live in dignity. They claim to be in favour of family conciliation, but VOX has voted against feminist laws that focus precisely on family conciliation. They also claim to be in favour of the training development of workers, but VOX abstained from the law on vocational training, which includes precisely the development and training of workers. They say they are in favour of decent pensions, but VOX did not support the upgrading of pensions. That's why they want to further delay the retirement age, extend the working life or increase the years of contribution I don't know if they have talked about all this with a woman, for example, who has worked until the age of sixty cleaning to see what she thinks, because the truth is that not everyone is born with a company or a patrimony under the arm; they have to struggle to get to retirement at the stroke of calmers, anti-inflammatory and antidepressants. [[page 45 of your program]] That's why they want to put an end to the right to strike, jibarizing them, locking themselves inside the workplace so they don't see them, so they don't see them, no one I don't know if they've had to make a lot of strikes in their lives for the boss to recognize them, for example, overtime or not to fire a family partner. [[page 59 of your program]] I also do not know whether they have ever risked even their jobs, but I will tell you that the majority are not born with inheritances that allow them to reject the instrument that allows them to move forward and democratize, which is basically the strike. And that's why they want to precarise the contracts of the younger ones with an insertion salary. I don't know if they've had the opportunity to talk to some young man who, even working, can't emancipate himself or pay a rent or think about forming a family, which they say so much you like. [[page 56 of your program]] The truth is that not everyone is born with a father with contacts who can raise the phone and plug his son or daughter anywhere with a golden wage, is it not, ladies? They also say they are in favour of quality employment, but the truth is that they have been trying for months to get the Constitutional Court to bring down the labor reform, the law of riding and dismissals for medical discharges, and that would have to give them a little shame. And let us not forget that VOX, moreover, evidently also voted against the ERTE. I understand that you want to continue with this tale that you are the best defenders of the workers, but, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that no one believes it. The closest you've been to the working class is when you don't pay for the reforms of your cottages, so much so that you say you defend the self-employed. The closest you've been to feeling fear for lack of money is when you've seized your salary to pay for those works. Right, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, even if it's not here? Those who claim to defend the working class the truth is that they don't pay the working class. They are what they are: descendants of latifundistas and coups, bankers, aristocrats, pseudo architects and abusers of pejo schoolyard, lords and renters. His obresist discourse is mere pose. You are not of the National Front nor entrepreneurs; you are pirates of the public, people who get rich at the stroke of chanchullos and exploitation, neoliberals who want to legislate basically to enrich their own, that is, at the expense of the welfare of the majority. [[applause]] That is why they want to repeal any law that eliminates arbitrariness and precariousness. They don't like the rules. They want chaos and impunity. The right wing does not respect order, it does not like order; it respects and represents deregulation and the law of the jungle. That's what you like. Ladies and gentlemen, it is legitimate to defend all this, it is true that it is, but say it; say it. Say, hello, I'm from VOX and I want the bosses to continue to exploit and exploit the workers with total impunity. Say it, it's okay. We go forward and we say, "It's over with the prodigals who think they're above the law." And we passed the Rider law, fined Glovo, and now out of rebellion we're taking them to the D.A.'s office. It is legitimate to want to precarise the labor system, to destroy rights, to reduce compensation, to eliminate collective agreements, to end ultraactivity or to give more bargaining power to companies, but say it, do not lie, it will not be that they call them a cowardly right. If your work model is basically that of the People's Party with two more balls, then say so. We go forward and say that all these forms of slavery are going to end. We will continue with the labor reform, with an unprecedented increase in the number of workers with indefinite contracts, with a fall in temporary recruitment, the lowest in our history. This is the first time that the temporaryity with employment growth has been reduced. In the first six months we have made more progress in job stability than in the last thirty-seven years, 13.5 million undefined wage earners. Today, 66% of young people working have an indefinite contract. We now have before us this employment law which raises nothing more or less than tackling the structural problem of unemployment in our country, which is one of the issues of greatest concern to workers in this country, so that they can be heard. It aims to modernise employment policies, and it does so by coordinating with the autonomous communities and with the hands of the social partners. And what does VOX propose? Create a single national employment authority. Outside autonomous communities, outside competencies, outside trade unions. Who will be this unique authority? Mr. Abascal? Will it be you, Mrs. Cañizares? It is a curiosity that we had in our parliamentary group. If VOX were to care about the workers, the fact is that he would be happy with the figures that we see month after month in terms of stability and would withdraw the resources of the Constitutional Court by the law of riding, by the labor reform and also, of course, by dismissals on medical leave. But since you are basically what you are, you are at the service of chaos and exploiters, all you do is bring amendments to the whole and lie to try to stop...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u147	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u148	... the agenda - and ended - in favor of the most ambitious decent work that has been known in our country. For all that, as you can imagine, we are going to vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u149	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u150	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, let me begin by congratulating you. You're a much better speaker than I am, and believe me, I admire you for that. It's a talent that's not within everyone's reach. Some of us must strive to keep our words up to what a party like the People's Party has done for the employment and economics of the families of this country. To you, Mrs. Díaz, that does not happen: words have many, party, little. It is a pity that your rhetoric and that of your Government do not fill the refrigerators or pay the Spanish bills, and you told her, Mrs Díez, about those people who, if you really listen, have already told you that they are eating almost 14% less meat, 10% less fresh fruit or 12% less vegetables. But I am also talking to you about a sector, the agri-food industry, where invoicing has already fallen by 5%, a sector which employs 2.6% of Spanish workers, a sector to which you are putting up production costs while you want to put a stop to prices. He may not like this data, but it's the ones who give his partner the Minister of Agriculture, and I bring them here today to show how rare you understand what it is to create and sustain jobs. That is why they are bringing to this House today a legislative bill that they call employment law, which has more law than employment, unfortunately for the Spaniards, because, no matter how much one searches and searches through the text for the innovations that you announced to us a few minutes ago, we do not find them. It is little more than a drafting that you are bound by the deadlines for not losing European funds; forced also because the European Union has drawn its colors from the limited capacity of Spanish employment services to help effectively employed and unemployed people in the search for employment, in improving their employability and in their professional development. What really matters to you is that you don't get your suit wrinkled. They do not care that 28% of the population in Spain is at risk of poverty, nor that one in three unemployed people have been looking for a job for more than two years, nor do they seem to be concerned that we continue to lead unemployment in Europe, that we continue to lead in female unemployment and that we are second in youth unemployment. And it's just that, Mrs. Díaz, you have a very cool, very Bolivarian country left for you. But the reality, the one that strives to bring the opposite to the organizations and companies that you vampire or pretend to vampire, say CIS or say Indra, is silly and they strive to remind you that with your Spanish Government it adds as many very long-term unemployed as Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Holland, Austria, Romania, Portugal, Belgium, Bulgaria, Greece, Croatia, Cyprus, Latvia and Lithuania, that is, as many as seventeen countries together. There are more than one and a half million long-term unemployed, more than one million of them over forty-five years old, and this bill, which had to tackle this group of over forty-five years old, which he says is going to pay special attention, dispatches them with a paragraph of just three lines. Mrs Díaz, with you at the head of the Ministry of Labour, we have managed to be the country where the most wages have been devalued, according to the OECD, and that working today is not synonymous with living with dignity, because there are 16% of workers at risk of poverty, because the war and the pandemic are suffered by all Europeans, but its management, Mrs Díaz, is suffered only by the Spanish. And in this context of uncertainty, economic, social and labour shortages, they present a text that reinforces active employment policies, which currently account for only 17% of employment policies. But have you really not understood yet that people want to work and not be subsidized? It is true that if bad times come, then we must be helping, but the goal must be to reintegrate into the labour market, accompanying them in their transition to employment. That must be done by strengthening active employment policies and this bill does not do so. The European Parliament has just said this; the study centre of the European Parliament, which analyses the evolution of the funds, says that the labour market continues to have high unemployment rates because of the active policies so weak that the government is carrying out. Let's talk about subsidies. They are also presented without progress in simplifying and unifying the system of unemployment benefits and subsidies; an advance and reform also committed to the European Commission within the recovery plan to be approved before the last quarter, and already in December 2021 the director of SEPE told us that they already had a draft on this reform and that the technicians were working on it. And if the draft was ready a year ago, why hasn't its processing and commissioning been speeded up by incorporating into this Employment Bill? If there's any reason we don't know, and you haven't explained it today either. But what we do know is when someone wants to use this House to campaign, and you do it by bringing a bill that is not up to the needs of a country at the present time neither in the short nor in the medium term; a new missed opportunity for Spain. And what about SEPE, Minister? Its ineffectiveness is a secret to the public, it only finds employment for 2% of the applicants. And what is the solution?, to change where it was previously called SEPE by Spanish Employment Agency, without any commitment of material and human means? That name change is very good for you, but what do you think with this name change? That the miracle of bread and fish is going to work? That where they're unable to find a job now they're going to do it with the name change? There is much room for improvement in the handling of this bill, and perhaps the easiest thing would have been to present an amendment to the whole, an amendment of return, but in the People's Parliamentary Group we are going to work on constructive and positive proposals, which provide this law with the effective and realistic measures it needs, because employment is the basis and the fundamental principle on which we work in the People's Party, because without a job, Minister, there is no freedom to choose how you want to live. And that real freedom, not sectarian or theoretical freedom, is that which gives the People's Party our raison d'être and our vocation of service. We are going to reject the amendment basically because we are not against the introduction of an employment law. What we do not understand, unless they wanted to put black on white their resignation as a government to give back the possibility of working, is why they bring here this law that they call employment, but that regulates nothing.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u151	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u152	Madam Minister, I began my speech by congratulating myself on your abilities as a speaker, and I reiterate. I hope that your passage through this House today will culminate in another round of applause, and I hope that those applause will be as generous as those given to you a long time ago, days before you left that door, to Pablo Iglesias. Meanwhile, the popular, with your permission, we will continue to work to sow employment, and if the Spanish want it, then we will reap votes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u153	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u154	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. His is like that of the master Ciruela, who did not know how to read and went to school, because there is inflamed rhetoric, lies and exaggerations, but very little girl. [[Applauds]] Not a single technical or work reason to say no to this employment law. Even if you do not like it, this new employment law is going to bring about a reversal of the active policies that have been developed so far on the People's Party Employment Act - another of the disasters in its management - because this law, among other issues, incorporates the evaluation of active employment policies so that we can do two things: understand which active policies work and which do not and know what the result of the important investments that the State makes in this area. Because, see, the sectoral conference allocated EUR 27 billion for communities to carry out active employment policies, because no one understands that, for example, in Andalusia, with the highest unemployment rate in the country, only 52% of the money given by the Spanish Government for every Andalusian to find its place on the labour market has been spent. [[Applauds]] A disaster! And that is the key, that, by obviating how badly the PP manages, we achieve a good system of evaluation and achievement of employment objectives. That is the idea, that they interact with the productive system, the entrepreneurial culture and the skills and abilities of the working people to eliminate all those gaps that do exist; age gap, digital gap, gender gap, education gap and also territorial. The Socialists, moreover, applaud a law that places as a collective priority the care of people over 45 years of age, workers from restructuring sectors and victims of gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] Yes, gender-based violence. And let me stop at a question that happened yesterday in my land: the statements of the vice president of the Junta de Castilla y León are disgusting. [[Applauds]] They are not only when she made the macara the other day in the Courts of Castile and Lion in plenary, but yesterday she was able to say that, in the case of that woman murdered by her husband in Palencia in front of her two little ones, they are privileged as victims of macho violence. [[Protests.- Mr. Sánchez del Real: It's a lie!]] But in this matter talking to VOX is useless, of course it is useless! It's the People's Party's fault. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in real time you have just said that not in the Bureau of the Courts of Castile and León that there should be an institutional declaration condemning the Machist murders this week. [[Applauds]] You're ashamed of yourself! But going back to the labour debate, VOX comes here to give employment lessons, but you know what? That you, unfortunately, already rule, and do so in employment councils, thanks to the People's Party, and the suggestion is a big one! In six months, they have left the Castile and León Public Employment Service unaccounted for. In six months, the three responsible for implementing employment policies have resigned, the three of them! [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, focus! Here you bring a document to say that no to an employment law in which you only know how to talk about gender ideology, which shows that you are completely unaware of the National Employment System and give them no matter what the Constitution says about employment competences. Not one serious, impartial or State-sense proposal. When I read your proposal, I said: what would these people do a hundred years ago? Because a hundred years ago this country was a pioneer in the field of work. We were the first country in the world, for example, to establish eight-hour working hours by law. It was a long time ago, but I am sure that some like you would have voted not, as you continue to do today with everything, because the right of this country remains that of the half-day twelve hours, the overtime unpaid - 13 million illegal last month - and the People's Party remains the party of precarious wages and misery, even moral, because it goes to yours! Today, in this country, there are one and a half million subcontractors who have seen their wages increase thanks to the prevalence of the contract in the sector as opposed to the company. The People's Party wants to rob you of what's yours. The People's Party has filed an appeal against labour reform in the Constitution to rob that million and a half of subcontracted workers of what they deserve for their work. [[Applauds.-Protests]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, withdraw the resource and do not think of the Socialist Party, but of all those people who are not numbers, are life projects that today are a little more stable than yesterday, have more certainty, even more illusion, It is true that even if you do not realize everything that is happening in this country, even this Spanish government has thought of you, it has made you fulfill your dreams. I still remember when Mr. Rajoy said he had a dream; a dream he shared with his faithful squire, Mr. Feijoo. I dreamed of lowering unemployment, but when the People's Party is ruling it is unable to do so. Today, there are fewer people in unemployment than in the last decade. [[Applauds]] And the differential with Europe, which they like to say so much, has risen from 16 to 6 points in unemployment. Of course there's still a lot to do! But it is that the People's Party, Mr. Rajoy and his squire Feijoo dreamed of twenty million workers; they said it in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, but it is that when you rule you are unable to do so. Today, yes, the measures implemented by the Government of Pedro Sánchez have resulted in 20 million people working in this country. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you dream so much, what you show is that when you rule, you start to sleep. Ladies and gentlemen, it's over. From the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, when we talk about labour policy, when we talk about employment, we can never be satisfied, ever. There are always issues to improve, broken life projects to which to respond and anxiety to which to alleviate for fear of not arriving at the end of the month, but when things go well we have to say it, and it is fair to recognize that this Government is working hard, hard and sensibly to give response to the working class, to the young people and to those who still have more difficulties today to find their space in the labour market of our country, and that is also done with this employment law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u155	Thank you so much. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIC LAW AMENDING ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO PROHIBITION PROXENTEISM IN ALL THEIR FORMS. [[File number 122/00224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u156	Discussion of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law, 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, to prohibit pimping in all its forms. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u157	Thank you, President. In the feminist movement there is a lot, a lot of debate on the issue of prostitution and sexual work; in fact, we ourselves have an open and deep debate, even at this moment in which I am intervening. The first thing I want to do is to show my thanks to my colleagues for political responsibility and support, and the second thing I want to say is that, despite the many differences that we have at home and that we have the feminist movement, I would dare to say that on the independenceist left, and even in the Catalan feminist movement, the only consensus that there is is that the model proposed today by the PSOE with the law on the persecution of prostitution only contributes to the persecution of women. [[applause]] In fact, the PSOE is framed in a logic of punitive abolitionism, as we call it. I want to say that not all abolitionism is punitiveist, but the one you are asking us today is, and normally the debate is given in dichotomous terms between the punitive abolitionism proposed by the PSOE or a neoliberal regulationism, which would be the Dutch model. For us, neither punitiveism nor neoliberalism; we try to build a pro-rights framework, a framework that guarantees the rights of people who engage in sexual work. That is why we have today tabled an amendment to the whole with an alternative text, to show that there are many ways to legislate on sex work and to force this House to open this debate and to appreciate the proposal brought to us by the PSOE. One of the most interesting elements of the abolitionist discourses are the reflections about violence, that is what they tell us when we put forward the framework of rights: what would happen if it were your daughter? Well, with the time I have, I'm going to try to analyze in detail what the PSOE law solves in relation to the violence suffered by people who engage in sexual work. First, it is considered that the relationship between worker and clients can never be from consent, which is always from violence because there is economic mediation through. This is the first article of the PSOE law. But it is that you raise violence only among individuals, but it is obvious - and since the 1960s you have accepted it by the United Nations, being Johan Galtung the exponent - that violence exceeds individual issues, that violence can be structural, symbolic, and in this case we could say institutional. That is why we believe that the Criminal Code cannot resolve this issue, because the Criminal Code identifies violence and, from this framework, it is obvious that implementation will be differential and that the most vulnerable people will receive the Criminal Code much more forcefully. [[The lady]] The second issue of violence is trafficking. First of all, we must allude to something that you in the first article of your law contribute to confusing: trafficking and prostitution are not the same, ladies and gentlemen, they are not the same, and we think that the argument that you use to pursue prostitution is not correct and that it will improve the persecution of trafficking and will be functional. Look, trafficking is a criminal economy and, today, with data from the CIPCO and the State Attorney General's Office, which go through different registers, it is not possible to establish in the Spanish State the percentage of women who are engaged in sex work and who are in a situation of trafficking. In fact, in 2018, the Group of Experts of the Council of Europe of the GRETA Report tells the Spanish State that the fight against trafficking has a lot to do with the border, and that what needs to be done is to strengthen, say, border escort so that people who arrive in a situation of trafficking enter asylum programmes. But you not only make no reference in your law to the law of aliens, but also last week we saw how here, from this rostrum, the Minister of the Interior evaded his responsibilities of at least twenty-four murders on the southern border. But there is more; if we go to comparative policy - and Irish legislation is quite similar to that proposed by the PSOE today, the famous Article 64(a), which in its spirit also contained the prohibition of prostitution to pursue trafficking - the Irish Government commissioned a report three years later to Queen's University Belfast. What does this report say about trafficking? That there is no legislative impact on the pursuit of trafficking and that the persecution of the exchange of sexual services with consent without using police resources - which is a speech I have heard quite often in this House - does not make it possible to distinguish trafficking from prostitution with consent, because the reality is much more complex than how you intend to present it. Therefore, your assertion that the prohibition of prostitution will help in the fight against trafficking is not sustained, ladies and gentlemen. It would be logical to state that the guarantee of the rights of persons exercising sexual work, the repeal of the law on aliens, the application of the universal basic income, would contribute to the fight against trafficking, but theirs is not material abolitionism, ladies and gentlemen, it is not honest abolitionism; theirs is abolitionism for electoral purposes. Let's go to the rest of the elements of your conservative thesis, that is, that the persecution of prostitution will lead to its extinction and, moreover, without affecting sex workers, let's see what your law says. In the second article you pursue the rental third party, that is, that sex workers can rent places to work. Ladies and gentlemen, you are pursuing the main source of solidarity between sex workers, which is that you rent houses between them; moreover, with your law in hand, you could pursue the son, daughter or spouse of a sex worker who works at home. But its first article deliberately confuses forced prostitution with voluntary prostitution, and this only persecutes women and only empowers pimps. Ladies and gentlemen, Emma Goldman wrote at the beginning of the 20th century a very short text - which I recommend - on prostitution, and highlighted three elements that I believe we are interested in today: that the persecution of women only favors approximations and entrepreneurs; that if we do not take into account situations of labour exploitation, we do not understand anything about why people exercise sexual work, and that all those voices that cyclically scandalize about prostitution, but then do not intervene in the economic and racial system that we have, do a mere exercise of conscious moral scandal. Goldman said about exploitation: 'It is logical to expect our reformers to say nothing about this fundamental cause. They understand too much that they are truths that yield little. It is more profitable to play the role of the Pharisee, to use the pretext of outraged morality, than to go down to the bottom of things.' Turning to a comparative policy, ladies and gentlemen, the Irish Government's report says that the pursuit of prostitution does not have a downward effect on the demand for sex work, nor does it imply a decrease in advertisements, and that there is also an increase in the situations of violence of people who engage in sex work. Because if you pursue sexual work, you force women to exercise it in clandestine conditions and the most vulnerable to go on the street. This exposes them to police pressure from fines for civic ordinances, for example, and, if their law is passed, also from articles that pursue sex work. This means that the most precarious people will suffer more from the burden of the law and, therefore, they are likely to report fewer situations of sexual violence because they are in more precarious situations. In addition, to all these violence is added a main source of violence, which is the Aliens Act, which you do not touch. You don't do honest abolitionism, ladies and gentlemen. There are so many feminists who are abolitionists, but they are honest and material. You make an interested use of prostitution because of all the violence suffered by people who engage in sex work, your law does not touch one: you do not repeal the Aliens Act, you do not talk about basic income, you do not propose work alternatives, you do not propose housing alternatives; you only pursue the Criminal Code. In fact, your law contributes not only to the persecution but also to the stigma of sex workers, because you do not treat them as strong women, with complex strategies to the life that has touched them. You treat them, theoretically, as victims; you are victims, women to save, but in practice you pursue them with a law. We understand that what they are telling sex workers is that they are victims of being bad women and that they do not deserve the protection of the law. There is a study made a couple of decades ago in Barcelona The visible steps of prostitution, and in the prologue Mrs. Garaizabal wrote: '... it is necessary to start from the women of flesh and bone and from the real situations they live, because sometimes by defending the dignity of LA WOJER, in abstract and with capitals, we forget the dignity of the concrete women that we are and have at our side'. [[in]] Your battle against the framework of the rights of sex workers is in fact, ladies and gentlemen, a battle to patrol the borders of feminism. And you do the same with the transgender collective, which in your opinion is a threat to the identity of women, because you have an essentialist conception of gender and femininity. And, in the case of prostitution, under a discourse of women's salvation you are encircled by the feminist movement. Prostitutes can be victims, but they can never be women conagencia, protagonists of the feminist movement, and this has a clear effect: instead of working to make the feminist movement invincible against patriarchy, you contribute to the competition between collectives to pass a feminist purity exam. Ladies and gentlemen, the rights of the oppressed never compete. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Today we are discussing the proposal for an alternative text presented by the UPC to the Socialist Party's bill to combat all kinds of pimping, which was taken into consideration in its day. It seems to us that the UPC has carried out a courageous exercise, and I say this regardless of whether or not it agrees with the whole of its proposal, because they have put forward an alternative; an alternative to a proposal, that of the Socialist Party, which wanted to end - if not solve - the problem of prostitution and pimping in all its fields, but only with a reform of the Penal Code. Therefore, first of all, I would like to thank us for having another different text, with a view in some cases totally opposed to the one put forward by the Socialist Group. Criminalization is not the way forward, that is what the declaration of principles of the proposal says - and I fully agree - because it increases vulnerability and clandestineity, and makes access to rights difficult through work the only way to access it, as well as the irregular situation and irregular activity. That is, when someone is in an irregular situation they can only do irregular activities. In the operative part, the amendment to the Criminal Code proposes that the person who forces prostitution against his will be punished is something with which we agree from the outset, and it is the amendment, that is, that the person who forces prostitution against his will be punished. Therefore, we return to the exit box, or that here was discussed in the previous consideration: the freedom of the woman to say what, when and with whom. That is the crux of the matter. For the Socialist Party and the People's Party there is no such option, there is no such possibility because there is no forced prostitution, all prostitution is forced. Basically it is a more moral than a political debate, and I repeat what I said in the previous debate: not everything that we do not like, what we think is immoral, rejectable and even negative for society must be in the Penal Code. Can you imagine whether we legislate criminally and punitively on the basis of unshared moral criteria? That was done before, and I repeat it again. This is the criterion used, for example, to penalize abortion at the time or for euthanasia. Do they not realize that they are using the same scheme that others used for such questions? Read if not the book that teachers Meneses, Rúa and García Vázquez have written, Social intervention with women prostitution and victims of trafficking, and there you will see the reality, not that of politics in the cloud but that of the reality of the people who are in these areas. Your attitude reminds me of that beautiful song by Radiohead Karma Police, the karma police. You act as such, the moral police, who are even able to decide whether a woman is free to decide at any given time, a constantly tutelary position that nullifies the will. 'This is what you'll get / When you mess with us', the song said. And we will not repeat that yes, that we differentiate what is criminal and what is an ethical and moral assessment, and what is criminal is pursued and punished. But in the same way as I have said the virtues of the proposal made by the UPC, there are other aspects of the alternative law proposal that seem to exceed the rules they seek: they will be self-employed workers; the type of contract, a lease of services; when it is exercised in facilities a lease contract is spoken of; the tax consideration of rents, the subjection to VAT or that the business entity will be only through the cooperative regime, etc. It also raises doubts about the body for the protection of persons engaged in sexual work. A state body, gentlemen of the UPC, you are proposing a state body. I don't know if that's very... Well, we don't like it. As for alternatives to prostitution, they talk about a pilot plan for income or guarantee income and social inclusion. In Euskadi that, for example, could not be applicable because we have our own system. As for the extraordinary regularization process, perhaps we could share it. But without the amendment of the Aliens Act, which is the crux of the matter and which has been raised here more than once, it does not seem to be very real. In general, the proposal you are making seems to us to be over-legislation. I don't think that's the most urgent or the most important thing right now. I think it is clear that all of us here have different points of view in some approaches, that we disagree both in the interpretation of reality and in the solutions proposed, but we have one point in common all of us: we care about all of us and this problem is not indifferent to all of us. We know that we can't take a blind eye and that we can't sail around in the dark. Therefore, my group is going to propose the creation of a subcommission to study the situation of prostitution from all its aspects, with real and verifiable data, giving voice to prostitutes, prostitutes, associations of all kinds, researchers and public authorities; open to a true and consistent diagnosis in order to be able, subsequently, to legislate accordingly and from a global perspective and not closed only to the punitive. Whoever says that there is nothing more to talk about, maintains an intransigent and obsessive position, rather integralist and, above all, harmful to those who say that women must be protected. Because I wonder: if the proposed law that is being amended today follows its course in the established terms, what will happen the day after the entry into force, lords of the Socialist Party and the People's Party? To all those women who freely engage in their activities, are you going to offer them a house, a job and proper papers the next day? Or is it more important to leave an ideological seal on a law than to solve a problem? I'm done, Madam President. We therefore stand in our position to address the problem and reality of prostitution in this House with debate, calm, exchange of views and dialogue, but above all listening to and empathizing. That's why we're here, to solve problems, not to complicate ourselves any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u161	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, every time we debate in this House on the prohibition of prostitution, I am obliged to make the difference, as has already been done, between trafficking and sex work, so that we can lay the foundations for a debate with honesty and goodwill, given that the Socialist Party is unable not to mix them with interest. In Citizens we are obviously opposed and want to work to end, once and for all, the scourge of trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation. In fact, I take the opportunity to tell the Government to leave their internal disputes and bring the trafficking law here to truly protect the more than 45,000 victims of trafficking in our country. With this measure we could fight, in a firm way, against this great problem that many women suffer, but you do not, because it seems that you want to continue to do electoral with a subject as serious as this. Unfortunately, it seems that the Socialist Party remains more committed to combating sex workers, who operate in a free and voluntary manner, than to legislate specifically to end human trafficking. As liberals, we have always defended the regulation of sex work because we respect the freedom of those who want to exercise it in a voluntary way, so that they can do so with all the guarantees and security at their disposal. That is why we share the spirit of the amendment to the whole of this House today. Criminalizing sex work, as the Socialist Party wants to do, only leads to greater criminalization in this activity, which, unfortunately, is already very widespread, and what we are going to do is increase insecurity and the risks to the people who exercise it. We agree that there is a direct link between the criminalization of this type of work, as the Government wishes to establish with its draft law, and the increased insecurity of the persons exercising it. Therefore, only by effectively regulating the sexual work of those who exercise it freely will we be moving towards the eradication of trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation. We share the objective of this alternative text, although I have to say that breasts are a little short in some respects, because we are committed to regulating sex work; we are committed to offering a detailed plan, with effective measures, to prevent women who are forced to resort to sex work from having another way out. We want to provide work opportunities and alternatives for those women who want to stop working sexually, and this we have to do with a much thinner thread in the alternative measures of social integration. In addition, we want a regulation that requires hygienic measures for the performance of sexual work, which is already taking place in Germany and which we believe should also be implemented in our country, to ensure that those who engage in sexual work do so with the necessary protection and without endangering their health. There, we must protect them much more and establish a more comprehensive framework of their guarantees. Therefore, we can only share the opposition to the Government's bill, first of all, as advocates of the freedom of all individuals and their ability to choose what they want to do to earn a living, and secondly, because we are also demonstrating that abolitionism only leads to greater insecurity and worse conditions for women who engage in sex work. The Socialist Party has gone from looking elsewhere at prostitution to acting as if it did not exist and, now, to banning it, relying on a paternalistic and moralistic attitude. Unlike the Socialist Party, my parliamentary group has taken the trouble to talk to sex workers, to talk to those organizations that are actively protecting and defending the rights of sex workers, because that is the policy that we have to do, above all, in matters as serious as this. What we have to do is get close to the reality of those women who are performing sex work, know what their demands are and not look elsewhere and neither criminalize them. It is irresponsible to criminalize them because, in addition, they are women in very vulnerable situations. Is it feminist not to defend those women who engage in sexual work in a free and voluntary manner? Because it seems to me that it is the least feminist that exists today. That is the difference between legislating with morality and going down the street and knowing reality. If they did, they would discover that, even if their puritanism is prevented, there are people who want to engage in prostitution in a voluntary way and want to do whatever they want with their body. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I said it a few months ago in this House - that something seems wrong to you, it does not give you the right to make it a norm, we have to make that clear. Moreover, it is curious that in this matter the Socialist Party agrees with the People's Party and with VOX, this is where they have agreed, to share a paternalistic and conservative look on the body of women. When we say this, we have to make it clear that that's where the liberals are never going to stand. When it comes to cutting freedoms and governing the morale of men and women, what a coincidence, the Puritan left always has its best ally in conservatives. Liberals, as I tell you, will always be in front of us. These days we have been talking a lot about people's consent in the sexual sphere and I would ask our minister, Mrs Montero, the following question: Is it not in this case that the consent of women, who exercise free and voluntary prostitution, does not work? Are we questioning your consent? That is why I say that it seems to me the least feminist in the world not to respect their free and voluntary decision. That is why we are clearly going to vote in favour, but we must also bear in mind that we are going to teach this House a lesson, because we are used to it that only on many occasions, taking into account who presented an initiative, the rest of the parliamentary groups, many groups, above all, of bipartisanism, what they have done is to stand against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u162	You must finish, Mrs. Giménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u163	We will not give a size, we will exercise parliamentary power and, therefore, we will vote in favour of this amendment as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u164	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Cañadell Salvia.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u165	Thank you, President. The proposed organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, introduced by the PSOE, to prohibit pimping in all its forms, is based on an amendment introduced by the same parliamentary group in the draft organic law for the integral guarantee of sexual freedom, better known as the law itself. This amendment was finally withdrawn, in the face of the refusal of the other party supporters to vote for the law alone. It was withdrawn for two reasons: to continue the process of the text and so that the law of the only one is if it was adopted. Once the reason for today's debate has been contextualized, we have come to appreciate both the proposed law of the PSOE and the amendment to the whole with alternative text presented by the CUP. At the outset, we have to say that, of course, we are against any form of sexual exploitation, it must be done with this scourge. More economic, social and police resources must be allocated to combat sexual exploitation, in order to implement article 187 of the Criminal Code. On the one hand, the PSOE's proposed law seeks to end prostitution and, on the other hand, the amendment to the whole CUP seeks to regulate this practice and to provide fundamental rights to all persons who engage in sexual work. The prohibitionist laws that have been applied in other countries have failed to achieve this purpose and have, in my view, led to an increase in the vulnerability of the people who make up this group. We must address a wide-ranging debate where prostitution is discussed in depth. We will vote in favour of the full amendment tabled by the CUP, although it disagrees with some of the approaches. We would prefer to have its text processed in Parliament and subsequently put forward a number of amendments which, from our point of view, would help to improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the same group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u167	Thank you, President. These days we are seeing how the Socialist Party passes its proposed anti-prostitution law in motion in the plenary of numerous municipalities, and they do so by mixing dangerously and populistly trafficking for sexual exploitation with all kinds of prostitution, including voluntary prostitution. A totum revolutionum in which they continue to equate consensual sex with rape, but forget to explain how in other countries where a punitive line such as the one proposed has been followed, rapes, thefts and assaults have increased to prostitutes who were not in the hands of the mafias and who now, with you, will be at risk of falling into them and returning to hiding or public spaces in worse health conditions or protection. In Junts, we have recently asked the Government what measures it has taken since the beginning of this legislature to facilitate the support of women in prostitution settings for their inclusion in the regularized world of work, or how many women who have been able to have such support have returned to the labour market, or what specific programmes have been put in place. The answer has been that so far there was no Road Plan, with EUR 12 million to five years from European funds, for the socio-occupational integration of women and girls victims of trafficking or sexual exploitation and for women in prostitution. I mean, nothing's been done so far. Where is the work, where is the legacy after more than forty years of popular or socialist governments? Prostitution needs to be addressed through employment integration programmes and proposals in order to provide employment opportunities for situations of violation of women's rights; abolitionism, but positive. We need resources for women who engage in prostitution to have real alternatives always, not only when there are European funds, and we need resources in the autonomous communities, because they are close to the problem. We said that on the first day in this legislature there began to be talk of penalizing the rental third party even though there was no sexual exploitation. We cannot be in favour of a law that makes women who already live in precarious and stigmatized situations who defend their right to decide, to consent in their sexual relations. Prostitution is a complex phenomenon. It is clear that much of prostitution is forced, sometimes indirectly, but there is also that of a voluntary nature. It is therefore pointless to give homogeneous solutions to heterogeneous problems. Today the CUP presents an amendment to the whole defending the regulation of prostitution as sex work. We interpret this initiative and receive it as a new invitation to a debate that has not existed in depth. We will abstain and do so because, without discussing whether the model is Sweden or Switzerland, by putting two antagonistic examples, it is not possible to build a consensus response. But welcome to the subcommission. We insist that only by taking the active listening of all women seriously, because feminism cannot listen to one another and make deaf ears to another, can laws be created that tend to justice. Socialists are seized by the electoral message of Pedro Sánchez and repeat as a mantra that they are going to abolish prostitution, even though they know that they are not going to achieve it, as shown by Amnesty International reports from several countries where they have also opted for prohibitionism. Focus on the fight against trafficking and sexual exploitation, focus on generating alternatives for women who want to leave prostitution because resources are not unlimited and rights should not be limited, at least not as you do.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u169	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Good afternoon. On the thread of how the discussion went, let me make two previews. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Mireia Vehi, the CUP Member, because she has made an absolutely impeccable speech that I fully share, and I believe that sorority is that, that is, we recognize and do well. [[Applauds]] Secondly, the subcommittee, Mr Joseba Agirretxea, sees it very complicated. But if you don't want to talk! If we've been on this subject for months and months and they don't want to talk! They don't want to talk, they don't want to listen. But that's what we have. If it does, we will vote in favour, just as we will vote in favour of the amendment to the whole alternative text. Let's be clear what we're doing today, because sometimes we confuse terms. Basically what we are saying is that this is going to be done with one text or the other and, therefore, although there is some element, indeed, of too much regulation, of too much detail, although we believe that it is not mature at all and we believe that this type of legislation should be done with the help of the people concerned, we are much closer to what the UPC has written than to what the PSOE has done. Because what has been done is to perpetrate what they could not do in the Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom - which even endangered it - and through a rabies now, has become an amendment to the Criminal Code. I have been telling you for a long time that co-active pimping is already incorporated into the Penal Code and for this intervention I recovered one of the appearances that we started - because it also cost - in the Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, which is a member of the Association of Women Judges of Spain. She said: No, no, the problem is not the law; the problem is the judges. The law is already written, but the Supreme Court's interpretation does not allow us to apply it. And I say to you: what you have is not a problem with the law, it is a problem with a judiciary, so terribly harsh for rights and so meek for violence against women. And why? Because this judiciary is a part of the patriarchal and macho structure that interprets laws and applies them with that vision. [[Applauds]] That's the problem, not the wording. Solution: since the judiciary is a sexist, we will penalize even more, to see if they do not escape us. But who gets it? What lives are they going to destroy? They are going to destroy the lives of women who talk to us and who say that from this legislation their life is going to be hell, if it wasn't already, by application, for example, of civic ordinances. I do not know to what extent you are aware of this and I do not know to what extent you can maintain a position that incorporates in the Penal Code that will be fined - you will not go to prison - to those who agree to the practice of acts of a sexual nature in exchange for money or other kind of provision of economic content. Look, there's no violence, there's no exploitation, what's there is that you can't agree why you have sex because it's me who decides the right reasons. By the way, and that's left-wing, lucky it's not right-wing, because if they get to be right-wing they'd tell us, well, within marriage... It's just that they're doing the same legislation, ma'am. And that's what surprises me, because they come up to the commissions and boast that it's the proposition that has had the most votes. No wonder, for God's sake, you have the whole bench on the right with you! And that doesn't make them think, which is unfortunate and which they would have to make look at. In any case, this issue - I must say, I must admit - irritates me, because one of the elements that crush the lives of these women - because we are talking about prostitution or sexual work is basically a job or an occupation of women - is stigma. And you reproduce the stigma and replay it and turn it into a category that hangs over the heads of all these women. Therefore, when we talk about that there are certain positions in feminism that must find a common element, there is only one line: women's rights, respect for their freedom, respect for their way of understanding their body and their sex - we like it more, we like it less or we don't like it at all - because of respect and the extension of freedoms it is about. Its text further hardens the conditions, its text goes into what assumptions it is legitimate to have sex or not and, therefore, its text will be a very hard starting point for reaching an agreement. I was telling you the other day that you are starting from a magical abolitionism, and I want to refer to what the companion said about material abolitionism. Look, my party doesn't think I have to have a heading in the IAE, among other things, because here is the most interesting discussion about whether everything is under the market or not. And curiously - curiously - we, who fight this free market because it does not self-regulate, wonder why that only affects women's rights and freedom, because it does not affect the rest, they are not talking about work and their dignity. [[applause]] And there are three elements. For ten years - ten years - we have been systematically submitting to them, on a regular basis, an amendment to the general State budget to provide programmes for the reintegration of workers and the updating of studies for women who want to leave prostitution. Do you know how they voted for ten years? No! No! Ten years voting against the programs and now they're telling us that...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u170	You have to finish, Mrs. Vallugera.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u171	I'm done now, Madam President. Don't fill your mouth with words like dignity, freedom... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u172	I'm so sorry, really. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u173	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Article 6 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, CEDAW, obliges us as a State to combat trafficking in women, as well as the exploitation of prostitution against others, fighting impunity in this area. To this end, the committee that monitors the implementation of CEDAW, the CEDAW committee, in 2015 urged Spain, among other measures, to - I quote textually - adopt a broad definition of pimping in order to enable the proper prosecution of those who exploit the prostitution of others. There is a double false dichotomy when it comes to working on public policies... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u174	Wait a minute, Mrs. Fernández Castañón. Could you keep the conversations down, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u175	Or even not having them right now. There is a double false dichotomy when it comes to working on public policies in the field of prostitution. On the one hand, the protection of the rights of victims is fully compatible with the fight against impunity; on the other hand, the defence of the rights of all women does not lead to a regulation of anything, nor does it make us lose the abolitionist horizon that we have been defending since Podemos. The theoretical debate must be drawn from the practice of public policies, it is inevitable and irrevocable that debate, but in the institutions we are for the reality of women, the guarantee of rights, here and now. And from the Ministry of Equality it comes up with the framework of the international conventions, which we are commanded to do so, when they address discrimination against women. It is true, Mrs Vehi, not all abolitionism is prohibitive. Thank you for saying so in this rostrum too. And of course, banning without facilitating access to material conditions is as unrealizable as it is cruel. [[Applauds]] Victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation need an alternative to their situation. It cannot be left to them in exploitation, the institutions have a responsibility to offer them certain and dignified ways of emancipation, in accordance with the reality they live with and not with the reality with which it is elucidated in the offices. In this line, the Ministry of Equality has been working on. Evidence of this is the newly approved Organic Law 10/2022 of 6 September on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, and within the framework of public policy, also the Operational Plan for the Protection of the Human Rights of Women and Girls Victims of Trafficking, Sexual Exploitation and Women in Contexts of Prostitution 2022-2026, the so-called Road Plan. The first response framework in our legislation is, as I said, in the recently adopted Law 10/2022; a response beyond what is provided for in the Penal Code, with particular attention to victims' rights and the main legal instrument for advancing the implementation of these recommendations of the CEDAW committee in its last report of comments on Spain regarding our obligations under article 6. Victims of trafficking are recognized for the first time as victims of a manifestation of violence against women. We talk about research and data collection, this is key, and the ministry has already started the process for the first macro-study. The comprehensive care of victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, which involves psychological, legal, social and also with the attention of crisis centres 24 hours; awareness-raising and awareness-raising in society, and a reparation fund that allows those material conditions that we cannot leave out of the process because we would be falling into an institutional cynicism that has never served to solve the problem. And if we talk about the fight against impunity of pimping, we know that since the modification of the crime of uncooperative or abusive pimping, the result of the reform of the Criminal Code of 2015 - it entered into force on 1 July of the same year - the Attorney General's Office has not ceased to warn about the inadequacy of this criminal type, which takes responsibility for the wide margins of impunity to the difficulties of persecution that surrounds this type of conduct. [[The Lord]] Precisely because of this, the draft Organic Law on Sexual Freedom, which entered Congress in July 2021, was aimed at removing the main obstacles raised by the Attorney General's Office with regard to this current criminalization of the offence of pimping, but was finally left out of the approved law. The Ministry of Equality promoted a consensus drafting that separated the criminal type of co-operative pimping from the non-co-active and established a differentiated penalty for each, in order to counter the tendency of current jurisprudence to demand the same elements for both crimes. It therefore allowed progress to be made in the expansion of the prosecution of pimping in relation to the current type, eliminating the most relevant obstacle highlighted by the Attorney-General's Office in his memoirs: the need to establish the situation of vulnerability; a wording in which non-cooperative pimping was detached from forced prostitution and was part of the exploitation of prostitution of others, excluding in any case the criminalization of prostitution - as the international agencies say - on a voluntary basis. That consensus wording is the point to which we must return, it is the point at which we must work, because the search for consensus must be the responsibility that moves us as transformative forces to achieve it. In Podemos - and I will finish now - it is clear that the objective of combating impunity in the pimping industry must go hand in hand with the protection and recognition of the rights of women who are victims of sexual exploitation. This goes through an integral approach that goes beyond the criminal persecution of pimping. Talking about material conditions means ensuring access to resources for victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, as well as for women who are in prostitution and who wish to leave. Not to do this is to legislate from a privileged situation...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u176	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u177	I'm done. ...other than the material reality of people. And to this, we neither came nor are we for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u178	Thank you. Mrs Méndez Monasterio has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u179	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that the left has a problem with prostitution, wanting to solve this problem with four articles. There are many elements to take into account in such a complicated framework, largely criminal, in addition to the values at stake, such as freedom, of course, and personal dignity. The Socialist Party intends to abolish prostitution and, to that end, in its proposal proposes a series of measures which are partial, which are incomplete, and some of which are clearly senseless. They propose to extend the criminal type of pimping, with which our group is absolutely in agreement; we will even propose that penalties be increased when it comes to minors or persons with disabilities. [[Applauds]] They propose to penalize what they call the rental third party. We will put forward an amendment which should only be penalised when there is fraud. We are very concerned about how they are going to make this transition from tolerance to prohibition, when there are only over a thousand brothels on the roads throughout Spain. We didn't go into any more evaluations, but they haven't done the previous job. They shall consider all clients or sex claimants to be criminals and liable to punishment when providing financial assistance and even if there is free consent. How can it be proved that there has been a counter-performance? What if the reward is a trip or a bag or the lover puts an apartment in it? Focus directly on legal certainty. We amend that, of course, clients are punished when they are able to know the victim's situation of exploitation or minority. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the members of the CUP propose to legalize prostitution - that is their amendment -. The legalization of prostitution would have many harmful effects, including considering it a very good thing to trade with one's own body. But, gentlemen of the UPC, what is the percentage of people who are exercising prostitution on a voluntary basis? What is really important, and what needs to be solved, is the cases of slavery that are taking place: 90% of prostitution comes from trafficking; that is where the focus must be. Because prostitution in real life doesn't look like the movie Pretty Woman. None of his lordships escape the situation of many immigrants who are deceived into coming to Spain: they are made to incur a debt that they will pay by prostitution and withhold their passport. Or do you not know that there are brothels even with bars in the windows? That is the reality; and in view of that reality, what you propose, both the Socialist Party and the UPC in this amendment, is that all people who are in an irregular situation and who are engaged in prostitution should be regularized; and this is where the contradictions come in. I ask you: how is it possible to protect women from sexual exploitation and not to stop or control illegal immigration? Is it not a contradiction to want to abolish prostitution and to propose to regularize people who are prostitution? Because, of course, it will increase trafficking and produce an important effect called it. In order to obtain papers, the path is easy: to engage in prostitution; they seek to institutionalize that path. What needs to be done is to curb trafficking, by persecuting it and increasing penalties, as we propose, in addition to making available to these people a real social policy of training, of employment integration, but never regularisation, which would only benefit the mafias. [[applause]] Secondly, another major contradiction of the PSOE. I ask you: how is it possible to penalize a man who has sex with a prostitute freely - and I do not enter into evaluations - and, at the same time, from his Government is inducing himself to have sex with minors, that is, when he is consenting? But does the child have the capacity to consent or refuse before an adult? [[Applauds]] And it was not a mere statement; I encourage you to consider article 183 of the Criminal Code, which reformed the law of 'only yes', where it says: The free consent of a person under the age of sixteen years will exclude criminal responsibility for crimes of sexual abuse, when the perpetrator is a person close to the minor's poreness or maturity. Moreover, the hypersexualization that his Government was promoting towards minors was neither casual nor innocent. Right to know your own body to three, four, or five years in school is as Minister Montero now calls the right to corruption of minors. Awakening sexual instincts in unripe ages is having tremendous effects, such as addiction to pornography; since the age of eight it is beginning to consume. How is the increase in sexual offences at an increasingly early age explained? And they don't fix it. Another great contradiction of the PSOE. They propose abolishing prostitution because they say it violates women's freedom. What are we left with? Do you have the right to decide on your own body, as you defend, or do you not have the right to decide? And I don't go into ratings. In short, ladies and gentlemen, they have an important mental cocoa. And I do not leave behind the hypocrisy they incur when they do not fight illegal immigration and trafficking, when they have not condemned the barbaric exploitation in Baleares and Valencia, when comrades have gone to brothels with ERE money. With this law they would be criminals. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, all this leads us to believe that its objective is not the abolition of prostitution, or that it diminishes, as it would be desirable; you feed the causes and do not provide sensible and effective remedies to eradicate prostitution. I raise an important issue for you if you want to reduce prostitution: fight illegal immigration; fight trafficking; reduce the misery that has increased with your Government; reduce situations at risk of poverty; and very importantly, ladies and gentlemen: end the hypersexualisation of minors, and, of course, stop Minister Montero. [[Applauds]] As long as you don't do all this, ladies and gentlemen, as long as you don't do all this, don't tell us you want to end prostitution. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u180	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Jerez Juan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, not everything can be bought and not everything can be sold, not everything can be traded, especially when we talk about human rights, right? We all agree that trafficking in organs, trafficking in human beings and child labour must be prohibited and punished, even if these businesses are concluded in a completely consensual manner by both parties, and all these cases must be punished harshly when behind them are hidden organised third parties who profit improperly. No one in his or her right mind would think of considering its regulation in the field of a market economy; no one would think of legalizing these conducts because they are acts that violate human dignity in itself. On the other hand, the proposers of the amendment have come to normalize the indignity it represents for many women to submit to the sexual desires of the payer, justifying that it is done in a consensual manner, as if the consent of a woman necessarily coincides with the will of a woman. [[applause]] Well, those who come here to propose that consent be sufficient for prostitution to become one more form of employment, should wonder whether that consent of women who practice prostitution always free, is always voluntary, is always desired, is always loved or is always decided, or whether it is insurmountably conditioned by the profit of third parties who pursue a dishonest profit. Because they are not consents according to their will those of women who, under pressure from economic, social or family needs, lose the ability to decide about their sexual freedom in exchange for money. [[Applauds]] Because consents in accordance with their will are not those of those women who, forced by a third party, are coercively subjected to the exercise of never-desired sexual practices. And because they are not consents according to their will those of women who, deceived by the mafias, exercise prostitution under the promise of a better paradise. Because all the consent of a woman who does not coincide with her true desires within the framework of her sexual freedom can never be considered a free consent; it will always be empty and addicted. Therefore, consent is not sufficient element and individual dignity is not restored by turning a woman who engages in prostitution into another taxpayer. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not lead us to a false debate on regularization, which also continues to enable exploitation, submission, subordination and obedience. They do not lead us to a debate on the goodness of legalization without ensuring that this model will once and for all end with pimping. Because this debate that we are having here today is not whether or not women exercising social security belong to a service contract, it is not whether they are subject to VAT or the annual declaration of the IRPF. This debate is not about that. This debate is about rights. This debate is about human rights, equality, dignity, sexual freedom and the fight against pimping. [[Applauds]] That is exactly what this debate is about. And in this regard, and after the effort to regulate the working regime of women, I ask you not to make any more effort to find complicity beyond our borders. Reality is always clumsy, and in this case too. The reality is that, in both Germany and the Netherlands, the legal regulation of prostitution has resulted in an exponential increase in the number of victims of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, the darker face, the bitterer face and the more perverse face of all, precisely against what we all want to fight. Having said that, all that remains for me is to reaffirm and reaffirm ourselves in the same principles that the People's Parliamentary Group maintained when dealing with the debate on the draft law. And in this context we are addressing the Socialist Parliamentary Group to say that the persecution of pimping in all its versions is also our goal. And he encouraged them not to be pressured by anything, but not by anyone, even if she is the head of the Ministry of Equality and is created with greater reason than anyone else. [[Applauds]] Don't let them press you. In the process of the law on sexual freedom, we have seen how and how the Government has attempted to address the persecution of pimping, and has done so from different perspectives. We have come to see even condescending and tolerant positions that continue to leave open doors to pimping. Frankly, I don't think the women of this country deserve a broken government...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u182	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u183	... between the ministries of one another and the ministries of another. What women in this country need is a cohesive Government, a strong Government, and not a Ministry of Equality strongly ideologicalized in a state of constant rift and irritation, with an arrogant and challenging attitude, which goes for free and is unable to ask for forgiveness at any time. Thank you so much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo! All right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u184	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u185	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a debate, which has been prompted by the UPC, which is very worrying, because pimping violates human rights, because pimping is an inexhaustible aberration in democracy. [[Applauds]] And this amendment, however, does what it does is to whitewash this practice incompatible with the dignity of a decent society, because what you, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, propose here is directly legalizing pimping. I read you a concept that brings us your alternative text. They're talking about volunteer sex work, ladies and gentlemen; dependent. And I say, depending on who? Obviously, dependent on pimps, ladies and gentlemen, dependent on pimps, and this is a scandal. And the whole text, ladies and gentlemen, is a misconception, because they are based on a premise that has been repeated here repeatedly, and that is that prostitution is a job. No, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, prostitution is not a job. There is no employment relationship in the sexual exploitation of women. [[Applauds]] There isn't. Because consent, if purchased, is not consent, is subordination. [[Applauds]] And you, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, behave like genuine neoliberals, as left-wing as you come here and as free-market with women's lives. And today it will also be a particularly interesting political marriage, because they will support their lordships of Citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, your Citizens' Deputies support you. I think you have to make him look at it, or also his lordships of Citizens. Someone here has to make him look at it. The Association of Women Judges told us - in the appearance of the law of 'only is yes' - that during the year 2021 they had only found a sentence for pimping in Spain. Don't you really think something's wrong? Is there anyone in this House who thinks that there are no cases of pimping in Spain? And, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, I wonder: have you spoken to the victims of sexual exploitation? Have you heard your testimonies? Have you heard the violence they endure? Victims of pimping define brothels, floors, roundabouts or street corners as concentration camps. Even one victim of sexual exploitation came to say the following: If for a moment we could imagine what our life would be like if during the twenty-four hours of the day we had to be at the service of the other, dress as the other wants, eat and sleep when they let us, have to endure what outside prostitution is considered a sexual assault, endure humiliating comments related to our appearance or what they are going to do to us and then queue up to enter the rooms to be penetrated, where the repetition for hours becomes an act of torture, and have after sleeping crowded in those same mattresses... Ladies and gentlemen, where is freedom in this torture? Where? [[Applauds]] They say that our law criminalizes - you have said here -. Yeah, criminalize pimps, 'cause they're criminals. [[Applauds]] The other day, a Member of a formation other than my own reproached me for having a moral issue in our proposal, and I wondered why we were against this type of service and not others who are in precarious conditions. No, ladies and gentlemen, we socialists and socialists fight all kinds of precariousness, but it is that for my party, women are not a service, and in addition to the PSOE, class issues move us and the sexual exploitation of women, in addition to having a clear issue of machismo, it also has a profound class issue. Because, who are the prostituted women in this country? [[Applauds]] The most vulnerable, the poorest, the least resourced. In addition, maintaining a system of sexual exploitation of women is incompatible with equality between women and men, which is completely incompatible. Why is there only pimping in the case of women? Has anyone who defends the regulation of prostitution noticed this? The impunity with which sexual exploiters operate responds to the poor criminal regulation of pimping. We have also been told about the memories of the Attorney General's Office for years. Mrs Vehí, I am sure you have heard about the debts that women prostitutes incur with pimps, because since they catch women pimps charge them for everything: for the journey by bringing them, for the toothbrush, for the clothes, for the passport, for the rooms, for the fines that they impose on them for not respecting the rules of pimps, and even for the drugs they have to take to endure so much violence. You will also know that they are extortioned by these debts, that they deprive them of all kinds of freedom to move, that they cannot leave, that they threaten to harm their families. They threaten them with everything and you also want them to pay taxes in your proposal. Do you know what they're proposing? Increase their debts to pimps and that pimps have another element of extortion, coercion and violence against women. I'm finishing up. It is very simple, today we are voting in favour of or against pimping. Point. And those who vote in favour of the CUP amendment will be publicly whitening pimping and the whole pimping industry, at all. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the PSOE proposal is very clear: to pursue all forms of pimping, and we have no doubt - no doubt - that it is the proposal that needs a worthy democracy like ours, which cannot continue to look elsewhere on an issue that so brutally attacks human rights. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] - PROPOSAL FOR A LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER ON THE CRIMINAL CODE TO DEPEND ON THE INJURY OF THE CORRONA AND THE OTHERS IN SPAIN [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 124/000013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u186	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the proposal for a law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, in order to decriminalize the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain. Organic law. Three amendments to the entire alternative text have been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u187	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Today we are going to talk at this point about our amendment to the whole with alternative text in the reform of the offenses of insults against the Crown and outrages against Spain. And it is certainly a pleasure for me as a liberal, as you say and feel liberal, to be able to talk about freedom in this rostrum and the extent and limits of freedoms, because there is no one freedom. Since the human being abandoned the law of the jungle, which is that law in which everyone makes his or her whim, and we have entered democratic systems, it turns out that all freedoms have limits and there are these kinds of crimes. Look, 2500 years ago in Athenian democracy there was already the crime of talking bad about another and in the Republican Roman law there was the crime of infamy. That is why all advanced democratic societies have precisely limits to freedom of expression, they have limits to all freedoms. It is not about the freedom to make each one his own whim, it is about doing what one wants as long as it does not end the freedom of others. All freedoms have limits and also the Spanish Constitution in its article 20.4 has limits to freedom of expression. He was therefore surprised by the fact that our Criminal Code established hate crimes in article 510, the crime of the exaltation of terrorism in article 578 or the crimes of insult and slander. Of course, if freedom is used to end the freedom of others, if freedom is abused to end the rights of others, we will have a less free society as a result of this abuse. We will have a less free society if we allow expressions to be uttered against the Jews, expressions to be uttered against the gypsies; we will have a less free society if we call democratic syrup the slaves we commit to politicians; we will have a less free society if we allow tributes to terrorists and murderers; we will have a less free society if we paint in the private houses of judges who are only fulfilling their obligation, we will sicocate the police or civil guards who claim to simply comply with the law in Catalonia; we will have a less free society if we harass parents who only claim that their children receive education 25% in Spanish. So, what's going on here? Because, of course, here we find a position of the proponent group, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, that what is intended is to discriminate over who carries out the insulting manifestation and against whom that insulting manifestation is carried out, and there are some expressions that are good and others that are bad. I can say that my parliamentary group is practically the only one here who condemns all the demonstrations that take place against the political freedom of anyone. We have come out publicly to defend ourselves when we have been crushed against Podemos or when we have been crushed against VOX. However, no one here can defend that he does not look at who is the one who offends, nor does he look at who is offended when it comes to defending freedom. We propose this amendment with alternative text because we do not reject the debate and want to adapt the penalty of insults to the king's criterion of proportionality, which has already been established since time immemorial and which establishes the penalty with penalty of fine. We set the penalty with a fine and ask them to be brave and to vote in favour of our alternative text. But don't be fooled; I tell you that we will also vote in favour of the amendment to the whole of the People's Party, because you, as always, put us on the trigger so that things stay as they are - which is what the conservative group always wants: it doesn't want to reform anything, but things stay as they are - or that we can tell the head of state what we want in an environment of absolute impunity, as proposed by Squerra Republicana de Catalunya. Do you really think our country would be better off if we legitimized the insult? What happens is that you don't want Spain to be a better country. You do not make that judgment of scientific proportionality that our jurisprudence says and that even the countries of our environment establish regarding the proportionality of penalties. You only want to go unpunished in your campaign of demolition and harassment and destruction of the signs, symbols and institutions of Spain. You seek to confuse the right to disagree with the right to insult. Look at this news: A Republican Left Senator from Catalonia tacha de 'occupante' a Inés Arrimadas por no sing Els segadors. Holy shit! When you are your symbols well that you get angry, but not by saying anything bad about The Snakes, no, just by not singing it. Adriana Lastra calls Laura Pausini fascist for not singing Bella Ciao, the anti-fascist song, on a television show. What is this? By not doing one thing, it turns out that this is no longer freedom of expression. I want to ask Esquerra one thing. You are going to say here that you are the greatest defenders of freedom, that you are the greatest democrats, that you live freedom of expression. Listen, what about the freedom to express thoughts, ideas or opinions also in Spanish in Catalonia? The freedom to express yourself in Spanish in the courtyards of schools? The freedom to express your ideas at universities in Spanish? The freedom to label your Spanish business in Barcelona, Girona or Olot? Oh, no, not that. No, no. For you it is not a crime to mess with the symbols and signs of other States, but rather to mess with one's own symbols, of course. You are the ones who have imposed the spiral of silence on the constitutionalists in Catalonia and intend to defend the freedom of speech. You're quite hypocritical in that sense. Do you know what freedom of expression is? Freedom of expression means, for example: the republic does not exist, idiot. This is freedom of expression. Do you know what happened to the humble mosso d'équadra that came up with saying this to a citizen? They opened an investigation file for him. The head of state, the king of Spain, can be told anything, but a humble mosso can't tell anyone: Look, you're a fool, the republic doesn't exist. When questioning the republic of Puigdemont, the republic of the seven seconds, the whole rule of law must fall against this person who expresses his ideas. You swear and promise the Constitution on 1 October; on 1 October, it was a crime condemned for rebellion... [[Rumors]] By sedition - forgiveness - by disobedience and by misappropriation of public flows. That for you is freedom of expression. We have here badges defending freedom of expression, as is the case of the famous journalist Mertxe Aizpurua, condemned for the exaltation of terrorism. It must be freedom of expression or it must be freedom of expression when terrorists are received as heroes in tributes in the peoples of Euskadi. In short, gentlemen, the birds shooting at the shotguns; the world upside down. And the PNV, who comes here to make jokes always, right?, and talks about how big Spain is and messes with the king as does the PNV, with that style of suffocation. Do you know what Mr. Urkullu means by outrage? Ultrajes, why is it another of the things we see here: the outrages to the signs of Spain. Urkullu's demonstrations were graceful - if they were not sad - when he said that it was an outrage for the Basque Country to distribute the COVID funds on an equal basis; that is, for the PNV it must be an outrage the equality between the Spanish. Look, you are going to come here and tell us that Spain is not an advanced democracy, that we are a low-quality democracy, when Newtral tells us that seventeen European countries provide special protection with regard to the headship of their State, including several republics. France, Italy or Germany protect the head of the State and the attacks on it by the word, by expressing ideas and opinions in a special way with regard to the citizen, from the attack that can be perpetrated against the average citizen. I'm finishing up. I'm going to read you a beautiful speech that was made from this rostrum several years ago. It was a speech that said this: Freedom is not to make my whim, but that no one can make his own; freedom is not that I can slander, insult or outrage what I want, but that no one can criticize me, insult or outrage when I want. And I was saying with a proposal that we saw here: It is not political criticism that you want to decriminalize, it is a form of violence that you try to validate. José Andrés Torres Mora, deputy of the Socialist Party who must be very comfortable in Spanish Cultural Action and not seeing how his party has been sold to partners who propose to decriminalize the crime of insulting the king and insulting the symbols of Spain. You are never going to have your independent republic, but I imagine that if you had it, the handsome one who got involved with the stellate, with the reapers, with Junqueras and with Puigdemont, you would put him in prison, for sure. We will continue to defend the freedom of all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u188	Thank you. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u189	With venial, Mr. President. This is an initiative of the Republican and Bildu parliamentary groups presented in the Senate, which comes from that House where it has already been taken into consideration, but whose content is essentially coincident with other previous legislative proposals, debated in September 2021 and October 2020, at the respective initiative of Podemos and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya; initiatives which also postulate the repeal of articles 490.3, 491 and 543 of the Criminal Code, on insults and slanders to the king and outrages to Spain. Then since 2019, among initiatives of communist groups and separatist groups, the suppression of such crimes against the head of State and against Spain once a year is discussed in this House. What an unpatriotic perseverance! [[Applauds]] You remind me for these purposes, so alien to any civilized order of coexistence, of Gustavo the Incongruent, character of Gomez de la Serna who defended a doctoral thesis consisting of the right of everyone to do whatever he wanted. You believe that you have the right to say in insulting or slanderous terms what you want of the king of Spain as head of state and to outrage - which is a term with a semantic content of serious offense, not a slight offense - to Spain. If you believe that this is consistent with - I repeat - a civilized order of coexistence, you have either really lost your mind or fall into this ridiculous character of our best literature. Knowing this, it is to be seen that on this occasion, and after the previous two, there is a significant change, and it is that on the previous occasions these gentlemen who sit on this side of the House, of the Socialist Party, have opposed it. But now, curiously, I do not know whether for a reason of spring, that blood alters, in May 2022 they voted in favour of taking this proposal into consideration, whose amendments we are all debating at today's sitting. On the previous occasion he took the word of Mrs Isaura Leal, who is listening to me carefully - I think - and to whom I take the opportunity to always greet respectfully and adhere to her position of opposition to that initiative, which today became enthusiasm for a senator of the Socialist Group. I don't know if there's really a spring, seasonal, solstice motive here, I don't know what to think anymore. I think there is a much simpler explanation, and it is that the table was approaching that of the dialogue that you so much like. Well, they like it; I don't know if they like it or not. They like what the dialogue table and its agreements, also anti-patriotic, provide. What they like is that instrument for Mr Sánchez to continue in La Moncloa. [[Applauds]] There is no clause on this in such agreements. There is a general clause in one of them, in the first, on strengthening fundamental rights; in short, a vaporous, ethereal thing, almost constitutional lyric, but that we all know that, among other things, it covers or protects these purposes, as I say, recalcitrant of these groups that are clearly contrary to the constitutional order, as we all know because they manifest it so every five minutes. I imagine what was the dialogue, not the dialogue at the table, in which the Minister of Propaganda, Mr Bolaños, participated; the dialogue that had to be established, perhaps by phone or by WhatsApp or what I know by what means, with La Moncloa and with his inhabitant, who is the head of the Minister of Propaganda - I will not say what I said on another occasion is not that someone gets shocked -. [[Applauds]] Esquerra Republicana and its partners - by the way, I think you have broken the government pact, it seems; I do not know if this will serve anything for Spain, we will see in the next few days, let us trust that it will - you would say: We want to insult and slander the king freely; we want to freely outrage Spain, ad libitum, without fees, without limitation. And Sanchez's answer, on the other side of the phone or whatever the means of transmission of the communication, would be: It would take more! We could get this far! But you will have seen that someone intends to prevent, and on top of it to prosecute criminally, that he insults and slanders the king and that he insults Spain! Of course! Sure! Let's support them! We've already supported them! Trust us! We've said it in May in the Senate! [[Laughter]] And then already with the Journal of Sessions we would be told: Do not put it in the agreement that, if it is already there in writing, collected as a record in the Journal of Sessions of the Senate. This goes into the suffo genre because it has no basis, but being suffo, at the same time it is serious because it is supported by the Government. And if the government supports it, what's going to happen here, Mrs. Isaura and the socialist spokesman, Don Patxi? Are you going to support him, too, here in this House now? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] All the arguments that derail the proposition's explanatory statement are not entirely false arguments - to tell the truth, with a certain intellectual honesty - but partly false; then in any case, by that biased partial, fallacies. The judgement in the Stern and Roura case against Spain was invoked by the proposed law. I have already said in some previous intervention on the occasion of those failed considerations that this sentence had not been pronounced in rigour on these criminal types; it had been pronounced on the existence of a speech of hatred in the burning of a portrait of the King of Spain in Catalonia as a manifestation of freedom of expression, so there was no pronouncement on this which you say is unequivocal about that they should be repealed. That's not true. The judgment was also expressed in very casuistic terms, i.e. very attentive to the circumstances, i.e. the burning of the portrait. Made of its reprehensible, because it is a serious offense to the Lord who burns himself, even if it is in his image, although we do not know if you would have wished a burning in a pyre; this is already another day if you want to tell us, because your frenzy coup is considerable. In a few years you have given two coups d'état, you like it; as soon as you have an opportunity, you do. It was a political manifestation in these terms, it was an excess, but the court somehow excuses it; but no, it does not agree with what you say. You also cite the Otegi judgment, in which it is true that it was said that the reputation of the head of state does not have to be protected in principle in a way superior to the reputation of other people. But watch out for the Otegi sentence, because you guys are hiding. Always with lies ahead, this is the guiding principle of your performance. If you start lying about the history of Catalonia, imagine what you are going to say about the Spanish monarchy. Then lies without limits. [[Laughter and applause]] It says the amendment to the whole of Citizens that the Otegi ruling says that there is criticism of the figure of the head of state; what is not to be insulted or slandered, which is what you want. You want to insult and slander freely, because you do not like it, because you consider - what I know - that it is the protagonist of an oppression and things of these. This criterion, that of the Otegi judgment, was the same as that adopted by the Constitutional Court in a judgement subsequent to that of Otegi - in Judgment 177/2015 - before the existence of the Stern and Roura judgment. Exactly the same, i.e. freedom of expression protects a criticism of the head of State; what is not to be insulted, slandered and of course not to be outraged by Spain, among other things because these types of protection are not the person of the head of State, but rather what it represents, which in Spanish law is the State itself, the national unity and the permanence of that State - article 56.1 - and protects the institutions - the Constitutional Court also says - as a representation of what is Spain. The comparative law does not give you any reason; the comparative law - I also had the opportunity to express it in previous speeches - allows us to observe that in the republican France there is still the offence of insulting the head of State with the same penalty of fine as that which punishes insults to ministers or deputies. In the republican Italy, with four crimes of political vilipendio: the president of the republic, the republic, the nation and the flag. There is a 1964 Constitutional Court ruling that declared the type of 290 constitutional, which is the vilipendium of the republic. Other European republics of the Union - Bulgaria, Germany, Greece, Poland, Portugal and Malta - also include types with this scope and content. By the way, Mr. Asens left him for a liar - I don't see him today, I'm sorry, but I would have wanted to ask - Newtral, who is very close to all of you, a manipulator who makes truths, the doer of truth like that absolute being.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u190	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u191	A moment, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u192	He's got 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u193	When he said no, that this was exclusive to Spain, Newtral said fake new in Mr. Asens' mouth. And the parliamentary monarchies, that of the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, Belgium and the Principality of Monaco, to add a note, if you want, festive at that festival of nonsense that you present once again. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Your time is up. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] For the defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to defend the entire amendment that my group has put forward to this bill, which seeks to decriminalise the offence of insulting the King, the Crown, as well as the symbols of the State. We basically propose that the current status quo be maintained, primarily because there is a very strong doctrine of the Constitutional Court and we think that the balance it has is sufficient to continue to maintain that legislation. From here on out, I'll make some preliminary considerations. As Mr Sánchez said, repeatedly, it has been evident in this Congress of Deputies and, also, in the Senate, that the groups that support the Government, the independence groups, are obsessed with this issue, worse truth that this time this initiative has a variation, not only the Republican Left signature of Catalonia, but the signature Bildu, the other partner of the Government. I have to tell you that I am a little surprised when I see, on Wednesdays, what Mr Rufián asks the President of the Government, which is true that he asks him about the shopping basket, asks him about interesting topics, also, sometimes - sometimes - Bildu's spokesman does, but I do not understand that, instead of bringing in initiatives on inflation, the price of gasoline, light, gas, school fees or mortgages, you, when you really have the capacity to change something, that is, through a law, you go and do not do it; and, what you ask is to insult, that the insult to the king comes out free and, if ever, burn the flag, too. Believe me, it's hard to understand this enough and, above all, it's going to be hard to understand it enough on the street for all the Spaniards, with whom it's falling. Ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said and I will therefore try not to reproduce arguments. I believe that the debate in the Senate, as well as the foundations of the bill, have some confusion, because this is not a debate between freedom of expression and the right to honour and the protection of State symbols. This has been perfectly resolved by the Constitutional Court. The deputy of VOX, Mr Sánchez, mentioned the famous judgment of the Court of Human Rights, which will be heard here repeatedly, but it gives me the feeling that the drafters of the initiative and those who defended this thesis in the Senate have not learned that the Constitutional Court, apart from the fact that the spokesman of VOX has explained it well, does not refer to what you say, is turning substantially on this issue. The Constitutional Court has now handed down a final judgment - I see the spokesman for Bildu who does not like the argument - in which he is going to provoke another debate in the Court of Human Rights, and you will see how a turn is taking place there, above all because the person who was and who fundamentally favoured this issue, which, of course, for our parliamentary group, is not balanced. But the debate is not, I insist, freedom of expression or the protection of the Crown, because these criminal types, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that they are found in Title XXI of Book II of the Penal Code, which nothing more and nothing less protects the maintenance of the political order of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. They should be a little more courageous and put it in these terms, whether we want, or not, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE - this is for you - to maintain and protect the constitutional regime of 1978. [[Applauds]] That is the real debate. Because, I insist, from the debate in the Senate and from what is deduced from the non-legislative proposal we are led to believe that here, in Spain, human rights are not respected, and the only thing that translates from this initiative is that, always, Basque independenceists and Catalan independenceists, they seek to undermine our Constitution and all the institutions that are housed in it. I am not going to remind you that nationalism is cured while travelling, because, so much so that it looks at what is happening in other countries, it has already been said here, there are seventeen countries that protect its head of state, whether it be a republican or the Crown, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, and this is what really bothers us with this initiative, simply, is that it is destined to undermine, I insist, one of the institutions of the State that is very annoying to the Catalan independenceists and the Basque independenceists. The offence of insulting the Crown, by clarifying the matter a little, ladies and gentlemen, is not what you say it is. What is protected is the institution and, therefore, when the king is offended, of course he is offending the king, but he is offending - because it is a multi-offensive crime - all the Spaniards who agree with that figure. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, that neither restitution nor forgiveness will lead to the extinction of the penalty or of criminal proceedings. What happens is that, in the end, and this is what distils the initiative, there is a lot of hatred for Spain. The same would be true of Article 543, ladies and gentlemen, from outrages to symbols. It is not a rag, it is what it represents and what unites all the Spaniards. But if you were so concerned about freedom of expression, you would have asked for the deletion of Article 496, insults to legislative assemblies or even to the General Courts. It is the same, yes, sir, they would have called for the abolition of 504, insulting the Government, insulting the Government, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court. Or is it that, to those, you can't and it turns out that the king, yes? Who has this come to, ladies and gentlemen? The usual. I appreciate a high degree of cynicism, but cynicism comes, Señorías de Esquerra, that, when that unpleasant issue of the Blanquerna bookstore occurred, what the attorney of the Generalitat claims before the Provincial Court of Madrid was that there was an outrage against the Catalan lady, that is, the defense of the Catalan flag, yes, using the Penal Code, but if we burn, Señorías, the Spanish flag, that, we get out for free. Believe me, it's hard enough to understand this initiative. And with regard to the famous ruling of the U.S. Supreme Court that you allege, I'm only going to tell you one thing. It's not comparable in anything. Here are two parties, two orchestrated organizations, committed to ending a 1978 order, and in the United States she was one person, very angry with her country, because a friend had died. Nothing comparable. But the worst of this initiative - and something has been said here - is the position shift of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. This is one more step. That we live for a time anomalous, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I think it's obvious. But do you know why this is happening? Because you govern with those who hate Spain, with those who want to destroy Spain, and it is impossible to govern Spain with those who want to destroy it, ladies and gentlemen. That's his problem. And to justify this initiative, in the writing of the bill, mention is made of what happens in other countries. Gentlemen of the PSOE, do you know what doesn't happen in other countries? To govern with two parties whose leaders are two criminal persons, two convicted; one, terrorism and the other, by sedition. That is not the case in any country in Europe. [[Applauds]] And in case that were little, ladies and gentlemen, with a member of the Communist Party there is no government in Europe. After forty-four years, this time they have yielded. It's what he wants to stay in the Moncloa at any price. But this is one more step. It all started in 2018, when you decided to form that majority Frankenstein and the respect for the institutions disappeared. This is the problem that we have in this country with the partners of government, which you are giving up. A narcotic parliament, closed in the pandemic; it is governed by a coup d'état, ladies and gentlemen; the Supreme Court is denied and the partners of government are pardoned; a Court of Auditors harassed by a president who eventually managed to change to economically pardon the seditious; harassment of members of the state security forces, Sánchez Corbí, Pérez de los Cobos, Catalá, the director of the CNI, ladies and gentlemen, all are victims of Catalan independence or Basque independence, and the last, ladies and gentlemen, and the worst, harassment of the leader of the opposition unprecedented. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame for others to see how Plenary after Plenary you insult the leader of the opposition. Yesterday it happened again - insolvency or bad faith? - and today there is not the president of the government, who for three times called it false. I want to tell you something. Seeing the great capacity and solvency of those who utter insults, we are quite calm, but I will ask you a question: do you really think that the Galicians are so foolish that for sixteen years they have voted for an insolvent person? Really, ladies and gentlemen, do you believe that? Finally, Mr President, I leave for the end that President Sánchez calls the president of the opposition false. Is there anything more false, ladies and gentlemen, than the President of the Government's thesis? Is there anything more false than the statements made by the president of the government of this country when he said that with Bildu no or that Podemos took his dream away? One can find an affirmation and the opposite of the President of the Government every day in each newspaper.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u196	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u197	Yes, Mr. President, I'm done. The real question that the Spanish are asking is whether there is anything real about the President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. I ended up telling you this: with these kinds of initiatives you can find the explanation for why when you go out on the street people don't let you be and protest. You know why? Because people's problems are others that don't look anything like this. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u198	Thank you. The Joint Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. To intervene in support of the three amendments in their entirety, with my most emphatic rejection of the changes that are to be perpetuated by this proposed law amending the Penal Code to decriminalize the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain. These are changes that come from the Senate from an initiative to the alimon of the Republican Left of Catalonia and EHBildu in the Upper House. It has already been recalled that this is not the first time that separatism represented in the General Courts hides behind the right of freedom of expression to facilitate loopholes through legislation and to attack national symbols, the Head of State, the main Spanish institutions and our security forces and bodies. It would be regrettable if this way of weakening the nation would succeed this afternoon, because it confirms the puppet vocation of the Government, expressed by the radicalism of independenceists and anti-systems. The Socialist Party, Sánchez's party, is suddenly losing its sense of state again. Ladies and gentlemen, the exercise of political criticism and protest is very protected in Spain. The Constitution protects freedom of expression very widely, and throughout the democratic period there has been a great deal of deepening of this right. On the other hand, Spain is no exception in the world and has in its legal system adequate formulas for protection and respect for its main symbols and institutions. In the European Union itself there are many similar countries whose legislative framework is very similar in order to deter grievances, offenses and disrespectful behaviour towards their high authorities and their symbols. Finally, if you give a letter of nature and a free bar to the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain, this will be a matter that the Spaniards will have to reverse from the next elections...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u200	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u201	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think we should start by framing this debate well to make it clear what we are talking about. Independence does not bother the king because they are Republicans, it bothers the king because they are anti-Spanish and as anti-Spanish they dislike anything that smells of Spain, be it the national anthem, the flag or the Crown, which represents the unity and permanence of that fighting state. [[Applauds]] That is the first thing we have to understand, because by that rejection, by that totalitarian vision and by that separatist model that consists not in claiming the same, but in uttering hatred for what they consider to be alien, they believe with the freedom to burn a flag, to pitch a hymn or to insult the Crown. That is precisely the totalitarianism that a democracy fights against the law. Because the Constitution, which considers the Crown to be the symbol of permanence and unity, protects it precisely because it represents the unity and permanence of the State. But, of course, fortunately for separatism, the problem is not the Constitution. The problem is the Government of Spain, which gives you no regard to the crimes you commit, because then you have Sánchez who, whenever you want, pardons you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u202	Thank you. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u203	Thank you, President. We could have many debates about comparative law, but from all points of view what is a shame is that in the Spanish state there are singers condemned for making songs, such as the case of La Insurgiencia, Pablo Hasel, who has been incarcerated for a year and a half, or Valtònyc, four years in exile. Comparative law I don't know what you'll say, but in everyone's eyes that's a democratic shame. [[Applauds]] It is a repressive reality against freedom of expression that portrays them before many of the human rights bodies, such as the Strasbourg Court itself. The sentence that gave Arnaldo Otegi the right in 2011 for referring to the king as head of torturers or the one that gave the right in 2018 to the comrades of Enric Stern and Jaume Roura for having burned pictures of the king has already been cited. However, despite these warnings from Strasbourg, the Spanish State continues with its own legislation of authoritarian states and also of something that we could call a fragile Spanishness, taking a good similitude. It is no coincidence that many of these laws or articles of the Criminal Code originated in the early twentieth century, just after the so-called disaster of 98, that is, the victory of Cuban, Puerto Rican and Filipino independence. It was at that time, after not having been able to preserve some territories, that, by the way, what they initially asked for was autonomy simply, that Spanish nationalism reacted as with wounded pride, as with the form of the one who had a dominant position and feels hurt for having lost it, and then takes it with anyone who dares to joke or criticize this position of lost force.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u204	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u205	That is the origin of the crime of the attack on the integrity of the Spanish nation, hence the facts of the Cu-Cut! and the Law of Jurisdictions comes, and this still lasts. That is to say, they are very Spanish and very Spanish,' they also go that there is full democracy; now, that is, neither a criticism, nor a satire, nor a small provocation to their king, their flag or any of their symbols. Look, let him look at it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u206	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u207	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, Mr. President. This morning my colleague Oskar Matute referred to several films that came to mind regarding speeches from the right. And to me today, listening to the three spokesmen of the People's Party, of Citizens and of VOX, I came to my head - I don't know if they remember that film - The cheaters, of Tony Leblanc, a film that was humorous. Of course, listening to you today, I recognize that I have smiled, I have even laughed at you at various times. Because, of course, starting with Mr. Edmundo, the world backwards. Mr Edmundo, do you not realize that this proposal not only comes from Euskal Herria Bildu and from Esquerra Republicana, but there are recommendations from the Council of Europe? You, who are so European and a fine lawyer, seem to forget not only the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights - which Mr Sánchez has interpreted on the contrary in the three judgments condemning Spain for going against Article 10 of the Convention, you have interpreted them in your own way, we have laughed for a while - it is that you forget that it is also the police station of the Council of Europe that has reminded Spain that you have to repeal this article, but not only. The United Nations in its Human Rights Council has also repeatedly requested Spain to repeal these articles. And I recognize that it was not Esquerra or Euskal Herria Bildu, it was Mr Sánchez at the United Nations in the face of the 2020 review that committed itself to repealing these articles. You said: This is not what they do to make Spain a better place. I believe that it will, that it will be a State with a less bad penal code, because you acknowledge that it is one of the most severe in Europe. Look, here are two things. One, that we are talking about an institution already overprotected, inviolable and irresponsible in all its acts, whether personal or institutional. And in the doctrine there is a debate that wins by goal - that is why I missed that discourse so anti-liberal - that says that precisely those institutions that have that political character and, in this case, not democratically elected - let us remember what the father of the avid reader said in an interview where he said that no pre-constitutional referendum was held because it was lost - and that he has not had that endorsement citizen, he has to tolerate a level of criticism even higher than that of any citizen, even greater. And you were cheating because it looks like we're talking here today about repealing the crime of insults or slanders, and that's not it, that's not it. We are simply talking about freedom of expression. And not because we say so, I have already said that there is jurisprudence already consolidated by the European Court of Human Rights and there are several international organizations that make this appeal to Spain. But, look, it's also that these articles, which come from afar, are anachronistic, they start from Francoism and, as I said before, from an already very protected institution. And in what context do they do it? They do so in a context in which not only the head of state, but the whole Royal House is plagued with scandals; that is, they have even had to change king to save the monarchy as a model of state. And what's going on? That at the same time, as Mr Botran said, there is a rapper who is in exile. And look, one of the spokespersons said that there are also articles in other States that further condemn crimes against the Head of State. Belgium has not only refused to hand over Spain for the offence of insulting the Crown to Mr Valtònyc, but its Constitutional Court has reformed a rule on insulting the Crown in Belgium. That is, Mr Valtònyc's judgment has helped to make progress, to improve legislation in Belgium. That is why it is common sense at this time that there is another rapist also imprisoned for the crime of insulting the Crown, who will help these measures to improve the legislation which, I say, is anachronistic and disproportionate. Because we're not talking about eliminating a crime of insult or slander, but stop superprotecting the institution. Mr. Valtònyc is condemned for a phrase that is: The Bourbons are thieves; said in the 21st century. That same phrase was said by Mr Valle-Inclán ninety years ago. Moreover, I encourage you to read the minutes of this House of July 1931 on what it said about Alfonso XIII. I encourage you to see what was said about Alfonso XIII and about the whole Royal House. Moreover, there was a French minister, Talleyrand, who said that stealing is a real custom, but that the Bourbons exaggerate. This was said two centuries ago. If two centuries ago it could be said, does anyone get into the head, even a militant monarch or a non-practising Republican, whether this is a crime? It's just that nobody thinks about it, it's a nonsense, not because we say it, but because it's a nonsense and because they're telling it from international agencies. Moreover, I repeat, Spain has one of the most severe criminal codes in the whole of the European Union, it is time to adapt to the current times, and at the same time, an overprotected Head of State, which we have to see a series of HBOs to discover issues that cannot be dealt with in commissions of inquiry in the Congress of Deputies. Repealing these articles will therefore make this State a better society and where freedom of expression is more armored. And I ended up saying that, obviously, we will vote against your proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u208	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. The debate on freedom of expression in relation to certain criminal types, although not with all - as a previous speaker has also pointed out - is a recurring debate in this House and that, despite the many initiatives that have taken place, we have never addressed it in a paper or in the Commission in a calm manner and with an in-depth technical-legal examination. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate that we must not refuse, because with it we face one of the key issues of democratic systems, such as freedom of expression, which identifies these systems as opposed to authoritarian ones and allows citizens and their political representatives to articulate opinions without fear of reprisals, censorship or sanctions. Without doubt, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a question that is not free from abstinence, but which we must address and, from our point of view, on the basis of the text referred to us by the Senate and not the amendments of the whole before it which are presented and which we are debating today; for, in our opinion, they will have their promoters to articulate them, if they consider it, as partial amendments at the time, in order to strike a fair balance between the fundamental right to freedom of expression and other fundamental rights, in particular the right to honour, privacy or the image of individuals or individuals themselves, or with the protection, where appropriate, of collective legal property. As is well known, and in addition to common sense, there is no unlimited right, nor is there an exception to the fundamental right to freedom of expression, the limits of which are set criminally in the crimes of insult and slander and in the apologia of the crime and its perpetrators; without we being unaware also, ladies and gentlemen, that much of the controversy about the criminal types of the proposition referred to us by the Senate is motivated by its application to manifestations in environments of political criticism or dissent towards the monarchy as a form of State or as an institution or towards the same unity of the State, certainly - and it must be said - on many occasions in a tone and with open, offensive acts, even disturbing or with criticism totally alienated from reality, through the person embodied in the Head of State or the symbols representing Spain and also the autonomous communities, because the criminal type of which is also referred to refers to the symbols of the autonomous communities. They are behaviours - we have said on more than one occasion - that our parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party does not share, but that demand a reconsideration in contexts of political criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is time to address and discuss the proposal made to us by the Senate or by others who could propose themselves to the thread of it, not precisely by aggravating the penalty or leaving things more or less as they are. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of the amendments in their entirety that we are debating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u210	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. We again discussed the decriminalization of the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain. As we said in the previous debate, just over a year ago, from the point of view of the BNG, this criminal characterization is not compatible with a system that is truly democratic, and in the Spanish State it is very evident that it is used to pursue the political discrepancy, especially the sovereignty of the nations without a State, with the legitimate criticism of an anachronistic and corrupt monarchy like the present one of the Bourbons. Without any surprise, they present amendments to the whole ultra-right and ultra-right, VOX, PP and Citizens, political forces that always cause rights to be cut rather than expanded, including basic democratic rights such as freedom of expression. But it is that pursuing freedom of information or expression was the norm throughout the last forty-four years of the constitutional regime of 78: persons prosecuted, imprisoned or exiled, means of communication kidnapped or closed... And not only in the early years, it was and is a practice that is maintained until today. Just remember the rappers of the insurgency, half of them Galicians; remember that Pablo Hasel is imprisoned for singing what we all know: that the Bourbons are thieves; or that Valtònyc is exiled for exercising his freedom of art and expression. Let me recover here three examples of Galicia, which I have already denounced in the previous debate. In 1980, singer Suso Vaamonde was sentenced to six years in prison for insulting the Spanish nation for the lyrics of a song, and had to be exiled. In 1981, historian Francisco Carballo was sentenced to six months and a day in prison for collecting in a book a historical truth: that the Spanish police had killed in 1975 the leader of the Unión do Povo Galego, Xosé Ramón Reboiras Noia. Reboiras was officially recognized as a victim of persecution by Francoism in 2009. In 1986, the leader of BNG Francisco Rodríguez, accused of insulting the Spanish flag, was sentenced to two years in prison. Rodriguez, who was a great deputy for twelve years in this Congress, here defended the reform of the Penal Code to - I quote textually - that this crime cannot be used in a capriciously political manner and with a desire for intimidating punishment at discretion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u212	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u213	I do not know whether the strong supporters of the Constitution are aware that the existence in their Criminal Code of the crime of opinion is the greatest evidence of the weakness of the regime of 78 and of the Spanish, Monarch and Unitary State itself, because it is to assume that it can only be maintained and lived through the punishment of the political dissenter. Eliminating these crimes will be a step in the right direction. In any case, we will continue to exercise the right to freedom of expression, whatever it costs.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u214	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have the floor. Mr. Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u215	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are not going to be able to support the various amendments to this initiative as a whole, but I wanted to comment on a few points. In relation to the first, presented by Mr Edmundo Bal and Citizens, making the liberal issue a flag, with all due respect, I say to you that there is nothing more liberal than freedom of expression and, moreover, it is already protected in the Criminal Code. The insults, the slanders are already protected, and one of the values that the liberals have most rooted is that of equality. What I still do not understand is how they can accept article 56 of the Constitution, which says that the king is the head of state, and 57, which says that the Crown is hereditary in the successors of his majesty Don Juan Carlos de Bourbon. This has nothing to do with equality; these forecasts have nothing to do with a democratic and equal regime. Changing The Constitution is surely very complicated, but changing the Penal Code does depend on this Chamber, and there would be an opportunity to at least relax the little liberal, the little egalitarian, the little democratic that this article 57 has. You have based your speech more on the attack on the symbols - 25% of the language, the posters in Catalan - than on the whole question, and then the PP and VOX have been added to what is the European photo on this whole issue, that is, what the heads of state have to do with it, but they set the example of France, without taking into account that in France the heads of state are democratically elected. Something skates in his speech, in his approach. It is not a question of the lack of protection against insult and slander of persons, it is a question of the fact that in a regime in which a position is relatively privileged there is also no excessive protection, enhanced protection or privileged protection. I also invite you to exercise. Surely in other countries there is this enhanced protection for State institutions - surely, it is true; examples have been given here - but in how many countries does this serve to persecute political dissidents, such as journalists, musicians or politicians? They analyze the configuration of the protection of the heads of State and also the deliberate action of the State to use these tools to go against political dissidents. European justice, which you despise or which you have gaps in memory, has already said that the burning of flags is not a hate crime and that the definition of the crime of insulting the Crown in the Penal Code has to be reviewed. Therefore, we are in a scenario where a public character, obviously, can receive much broader criticisms than any other person. There is no need for this over-protection of State institutions. Set up this legal regime through the proposal presented, so that this protection does not serve to persecute but to protect genuine freedom of expression. In this scenario, it's where they're going to find us. We are pleased that this debate can take place, that the initial proposal can thrive, and that, with everyone's input, a much fairer, but above all much more democratic and egalitarian, regime and configuration of this type of penal system will be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u216	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u217	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. On May 25, we approved this initiative in the Senate, because for us Republicans, and for all Democrats, freedom of expression is one of the rights that most represents a full democracy, the ability to express ideas freely by any means and without censorship. In the last seven years, sentences in the Spanish State have been an average of two per year, sentences to media directors, rappers, journalists, and civil society for expressing their disagreement with the Crown and its symbols. But the exclusives that the emeritus gives us in recent years generate an absolute rejection of this institution, combined with the state operations to whiten it. The shame that we feel many is shared by many other countries; the latter, the United Kingdom, with the burial of Elizabeth II. The parliamentarians of Citizens, PP and VOX have made a defense of the Crown and its real members in their amendments to the whole with arguments absolutely far from reality. For example, they do not deny that they can be criticized, but that it is done on an equal footing. But it is that the royal family is not equal to the rest of the citizenship, because it enjoys rights and privileges that no one else has. So don't insult people. The Prosecutor's Office, in its memory of 2021, initiated a dozen inquiries for insults to the Crown, which ended up closing without coming to justice. All of them - and I quote textually - were archived because they are considered to be of no criminal relevance because they fall within the sphere of political and non-personal criticism of the monarchical institution in general and, in particular, of the Kingdom of Spain as a nation, and should be understood as a symbolic expression of dissatisfaction and protest and, therefore, primacy of freedom of expression as a fundamental right. Already in 1986, a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 8 July, the Lingens case against Austria, established that the limits of the admissible criticism are broader than that of a public man, unlike what happens when it is directed against a private individual, since the public figure - and he says so textually - is inevitably and consciously exposed to careful control of his facts and gestures, both by journalists and citizens, and must therefore show greater tolerance. In the same vein, there are countless judgements; among many, the ruling of the Constitutional Court 216 of the year 2006. In view of the fact that members of the royal family have rights that are denied to other citizens, it might be thought that such privileges have their counterpart in greater criminal responsibility and demand, but the opposite is true. Article 56.3 of its Constitution provides that the person of the king is inviolable and not subject to liability. This means that the king can kill, rape or steal without these facts being possible to initiate criminal proceedings against him, which violates not only the principle of equality before the law, but also the principle of effective judicial protection. This inviolability of the Spanish Head of State is hardly parallel in the current comparative law. Thus, article 27.1 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court states: "The present Statute shall apply equally to all, without distinction on the basis of official office. In particular, the official position of a person - whether head of State, Government, member of a Government or of a Parliament, elected representative or official of the Government - shall in no case relieve criminal responsibility or constitute grounds for reducing the penalty. This Statute of the International Criminal Court was ratified by more than 150 countries and in none of them is known a legal precept such as that provided for in the Spanish Penal Code, which enshrines the impunity of heads of State, whether emperors, kings or presidents of the Republic. It has already been said that both the Council of Europe and the United Nations have repeatedly urged the Spanish State to review its legislation, but there is still no progress. As long as this definition exists, there can always be an accusation and, therefore, a conviction. A recent example, in 2020, when the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National Court opened proceedings to three politicians for insulting the Crown: TeresaRodríguez, Ana Pontón and our President of the Generalitat, Pere Aragonès. And I end up like I started. What can be expected of the Spanish monarchs? What can one expect from someone who is proud of having an irresponsible king? And no, it's not an attack on the Bourbon. They don't need to put any of their lawyers to work; I say irresponsible as a simple constitutional reference. And I repeat: The person of the king is inviolable and is not subject to liability. This isn't normal. It was not normal and it was not democratically acceptable for a person to be left outside the rule of law and not to be held accountable for his acts. It is deeply absurd that there is a person who cannot be brought to court because he is his father's son, regardless of whether he commits trafficking in influence, theft, scams or any other crime. But you know what? Unfortunately for those who love medieval privileges and institutions, there are more and more people who realize that this makes no sense, that the monarchy itself does not make any sense; in fact, some of us have been very clear for a long time. And I'm done, President. In a few weeks' time, ninety years will come of a historic speech that I'm going to quote a part of. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u218	Thank you. I give the floor, on behalf of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u219	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a debate on symbols or institutions, we are in a debate on rights and freedoms; on freedom of expression, which is one of the fundamental rights recognized to every human being in democracy and a value in itself of democracy. This is reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Spanish Constitution. That is, we are in a debate on the quality of Spanish democracy. In our country, we have become accustomed to reprisals and prison sentences for the exercise of freedom of expression, whether in its artistic, satirical or merely opinion aspect; an anomaly in democracy, to a large extent resulting from the reform of the People's Party Criminal Code of 2015; a reality that causes stupor in Europe. The proposal that now comes from the Senate - indeed, tabled by Esquerra Republicana and Bildu - coincides with the bill that our parliamentary group has already tabled in this House, which was taken into consideration in the year 2021 and which is in the period of amendments. Our proposal, like this PL, provides for the repeal of the nineteenth offences known as outrage against Spain. By the way, the type protects the symbols of the State and the autonomous communities. If repealed, the derogation affects both the redhead and the lady, do not get nervous. In addition, members of the Royal House already enjoy protection from these violations. Protection will not disappear from the insults of the Criminal Code, twelve criminal types included in our Criminal Code. I don't think the monarchy is so weak that it needs this special reinforced type. But our proposal for a law goes much further and addresses the repeal of other crimes that have also been used to curtail the right to freedom of expression, crimes called insults to the Government or so-called crimes against religious feelings or public mockery, because there are leftover legal mechanisms in our legislation to protect any right of persons who are affected by violations of their rights on account of freedom of expression or, rather, on account of expressions: the right to rectification or the protection of the right to honour. In other words, democracy does not need liberated legislation, in this case imposed by the right. The three rights of Columbus, the People's Party, VOX and Citizens clearly show their alliance to prevent freedom of expression. They have always considered public freedoms to be a serious threat to their privileges. The amendment to the whole of the People's Group proposes to maintain the criminalizations of freedom of expression as they stand and neglect all claims in Europe. VOX, more radical and extremist, in its attempt to end freedoms, proposes the tightening of penalties that prevent freedom of expression. As an example, to go up to three years in prison for criticism of the Crown. Three years in jail for saying that the king was charging commissions and that that's corruption? Three years in jail? [[Applauds]] The amendment to the whole of the Citizens' Group recognises that the ban on criticizing a family with a lot of corruption scandals is really exaggerated. He accepted the elimination of prison sentences and proposed that they should be replaced by a fine. It is a cowardly proposal and is still inadmissible, because criminal punishment for conduct linked to freedom of expression cannot exist in a democracy. In democracy, behaviors that contain a comical purpose cannot be criminalized. Remember the magazine El Thursday, which was convicted of these crimes, or the horrific ridiculous of opening a criminal procedure for pitted the king in a football match, or the condemnation of the criticism made by the mayor of Puerto Real, convicted in 2009, for calling it delict that one could not speak of the king's illicit business. Mr. Suárez, is that statement an attack on Spain, as you said? Is this much more serious than the fact that a retired general spoke out and threatened to shoot 26 million Spaniards for thinking otherwise? [[Applauds]] That conduct is now unpunished precisely because of the death of freedom of expression. There may indeed be expressions that are unpleasant, rude and even hurtful, but that is not enough to nullify the obligation of democracy to apply the principle of minimal intervention of criminal law. The threat of punishment for freedom of expression prevents public debate and the free political participation of citizens. That has been said by the European Court of Human Rights, which repeatedly condemns us for maintaining the crime of outrage against Spain and considers it unjustifiable for Spain to punish the king. The Council of Europe also recalls the difficult democratic fit of insults to the Crown for affecting freedom of expression. That is to say, you are inventing attacks on democracy to violate the Spanish law and Constitution, refusing, for example, to renew the General Council of the Judiciary; you are turning to Europe to justify its failure to comply with the law and the Constitution, and now you are scorning the European institutions in guaranteeing the rights they demand. I'm going to end up taking Mr. Andres Olero away again...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u220	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u221	...that for seventeen years he was a member of the People's Party in Congress, and that in his particular vote in the ruling on the unconstitutionality of 543 of the Penal Code said: "For saving my dear Spain a new sentence like those already collected on similar issues, I understand that it is constitutional. It didn't seem serious that I wasn't... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u222	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u223	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to announce that we will vote against all the amendments tabled by the right, by the PP, by Citizens and by VOX. It seems that the trio of Columbus returns, and the trio of Columbus returns to oppose with many stridences everything that has to do with guaranteeing or protecting rights such as freedom of expression or ideological freedom. Do you know what your views on this debate remind me of? The repeal of the crime that criminalizes information pickets in strikes, which led the PSOE. I remember perfectly his figures against trade unionism. Today, long after having left behind that criminal type, which was clearly contrary to trade union freedom, we live in an equally safe but much freer country. None of your auguries have been fulfilled, ladies and gentlemen of the right. However, I suspect they knew that this criminal type deserved at least to be reconsidered. It seems to you that your need for control, for narrowing the expression and for limiting what you can say and what you can talk about always blinds you. Perhaps they know, in the end, that protecting freedom of thought weakens their power, that they are resident in the defence of the status quo. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the right, when we talk about social progress or expanding freedoms, at best you are always late. Only in this legislature, for example, have they hyperventilated with the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy and disturbed their right to dignified death. Moreover, in this legislature the only freedom you have defended is to harass women in clinics when they decide to interrupt their pregnancy, the only one. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you embrace democracy so much that you sometimes choke it. There are some legal arguments that support the reform of the offenses of insulting the Crown and Spain. As you know, the crimes against the Crown are housed in Title XXI of the Penal Code - the spokesman of the People's Party has indicated - the so-called crimes against the Constitution. The provisions of this paragraph are intended to protect fundamental rights and legal assets that are very relevant. Some of them are the freedom, physical integrity or inviolability of the home. They all seem clearly distinguishable from crimes against honour. I certainly believe that this dissonance should open us up to reflection. [[The lady]] I'm going on, ladies and gentlemen. Our Constitution maintains a clearly personalist view of the right to honour, i.e. it alludes to individuals who are individually considered. This can make it inappropriate to talk about the honour of institutions, territories or symbols. That is what our Constitutional Court has already provided for. Moreover, the special protection of elements such as public institutions or territories may limit other fundamental rights, such as ideological freedom, which is closely linked to political pluralism, which, as you know, lies at the pillars of any democracy. Similarly, I think it is necessary to recall that the European Court of Human Rights has told us that it is not beneficial to strengthen the prestige of heads of State criminally; in fact, it defines it as a privilege contrary to modern political practice. This court has also sentenced Spain on several occasions for sentences linked to these legal requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has on other occasions supported initiatives aimed at reforming these articles of the Criminal Code. Changing these criminal types does not have to generate defencelessness and protection, but the Socialist Party aims to generate proportionality and equality. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression, freedom of creation or ideological freedom must always be contextualised in the historical reality of every moment, and the truth is that today, in a consolidated democracy like Spain, overprotecting any institution can damage the right to be heard and free participation in public life. Ladies and gentlemen, defending the institutions is not to claim that anyone who insults the Crown goes to jail; defending the institutions is to protect the weakest, who will only achieve a worthy future if they have a legal order that protects values such as justice, equality or freedom. [[Applauds]] I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Socialist Group is not going to allow the subtext of this reform to become an affront to the constitutional order. The Socialist Party has been combining the defence of institutions with its republican values for nearly half a century, and this is because we have no doubt that the origin of power lies in popular sovereignty and democratic reason. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that if we can defend the abolition or reformulation of the monarchy here today, it is thanks to the constitutional pact that is so lightly mentioned in this House at times. We, the Socialists and us, will always honor the Constitution that we had so much trouble agreeing on. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we ask you to have less empty oaths and more deeds. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u224	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u225	If you believe in democratic institutions so much, have the courage to dispense with Juan Gallardo at the head of the vice-presidency of the Junta de Castilla y León. [[Applauds]] One cannot be a Democrat by associating with those who respect neither the functioning nor the sovereignty of the Courts. Of your comments on gender-based violence, let's not talk about it. If you have such respect for the institutions of our country, allow the General Council of the Judiciary to be represented by those who legitimately belong. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u227	Madam President, on the basis of Rule 72 in relation to Rule 71, for personal remarks made to me in the previous point by Mrs Vidal, which discussed the working conditions of domestic workers.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u228	You have one minute to make specific mention of allusions, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u229	He has specifically said two things that I want to clarify. The first, who had seized my salary, and the second, who had been convicted of not paying the workers. I would like to make it clear to you that I have never been burdened with my salary, you can consult with the services of the House, and that no one has condemned me for not paying some workers, perhaps you are mistaken for Mr Echenique, that yes: you did not pay your employee, you looked after him and you did not pay Social Security. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u230	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. We vote in four minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, please. Before we proceed to the vote, we will read the institutional declaration following the death in judicial custody of Masha Amini and against the repression suffered by the Iranian people. To that end, I give the floor to the second secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u232	Institutional declaration following the death in judicial custody of Masha Amini and the repression suffered by the Iranian people. Equality between women and men is a universal legal principle, recognized for decades in various international texts, it is also a fundamental principle of the European Union; however, there are many countries in which it remains unrespected. On 13 September, the young Iranian woman of twenty-two years old Masha Amini, of Kurdish origin, was arrested by the Moral Police and taken to a police station to attend an hour of re-education for allegedly breaking the obligation to cover her head with a well-adjusted hijab. Shortly thereafter, she was admitted to a coma in a hospital, where she died on 16 September. The official version states that he suffered cardiac arrest. Several witnesses claim that she was beaten inside the vehicle that was moving her to the police station and that she had signs of ill-treatment. A few days later, 20-year-old Hadis Najafi posted on social media a video in which the hijab was removed and blond hair was picked up in front of the police who were trying to control a demonstration in the city of Karaj. We recently learned that the young woman died in police custody. These new attacks on women's rights and freedoms in Iran have led to a wave of demonstrations and vigorous protests in more than 20 cities across the country, in which, like Hadis Najafi, thousands of women tape themselves while cutting their hair or burning their veils bare-faced, sharing those videos on social media. In several cities women star in demonstrations in which they remove the hijab and sing against the Government, starring violent clashes with the police of the Iranian regime of Ibrahim So they have been severely repressed. It is believed that until 24 September at least fifty-four people have died as a result of this repression, according to several sources, and detainees may be more than 1186. Faced with this very serious violation of women's rights and human rights, the Congress of Deputies: First, it condemns the violation of human rights and particularly the rights of women and girls by the Iranian regime. Secondly, it repudiates the death in police custody of the young Mahsa Amini Yadis Najafi, as well as the repression unleashed by the Iranian authorities against women and against all those who have sympathized with the death of the young woman, calling for the removal of restrictions on clothing and conduct imposed by the Iranian regime. Thirdly, it addresses the demands of Iranian women in exile who call for support from the international community in their fight against repression and the lack of freedom in Iran. Fourthly, it supports protesters who have gone out into the streets in Iran and other nations of the world to protest the death in police custody of Mahsa Amini and Hadis Najafi and demand the release of all detainees, starting with journalist Nilufar Hamedi, who was the first to report Mahsa's death. Fifthly, it condemns the repression of the Iranian regime, particularly repressive of the rights and freedoms of women, homosexuals and ethnic and religious minorities. Sixthly, it recognized the right of women everywhere in the world to individual freedom of clothing and, finally, encouraged efforts within the United Nations at the global level to promote women's freedom. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u233	Thank you so much. Now yes, let us start the voting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u234	We started with the non-law proposition. No law proposed by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the revaluation of wages and welfare benefits. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 25 against, 265 abstentions, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u235	Accordingly, the non-law proposal was not approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u236	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the rise in interest rates, their impact on Spanish households and the measures being taken by the Government to alleviate it. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 150 against, 186 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u237	It's rejected. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN HIS POSITION IN THE INTERNATIONAL AND NATO AREA AFTER SIX MONTHS OF THE INITIATION OF THE RUSSIAN INVASION IN URANIA, AND THE STRATEGY FOLLOWING ONE OF THE MOST SAFETY CRISIS IN EUROPE FROM THE END OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR. [[File number 173/000170]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u238	Motion, following urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain its position at the international and NATO level after more than six months of the start of the Russian invasion in Ukraine, and the strategy it is following in the face of one of the biggest security crises in Europe since the end of the Second World War. The vote will take place on a point-by-point basis. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 282 against, 57 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u239	Point 1 was adopted. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 103 against, 187 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u240	Point 2 is rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 99 against, 187 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u241	Point 3 is rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 281 against, 59 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u242	Item 4 was adopted. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 264 against, 61 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u243	Point 5 was adopted. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 227 against, 61 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u244	Point 6 was adopted. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 272 against, 65 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u245	Point 7 was adopted. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 281 against, 58 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u246	Point 8 was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u247	We continue with the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Vote on the opinion of the Explosive Precursors Bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 190 against, 51 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u248	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u249	Direct and read-only processing of legislative initiatives. Overall vote on the text of the draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre for single reading, taking into account the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 262 against, 51 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u250	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u251	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law No. 16/2022 of 6 September for the improvement of the working and social security conditions of domestic workers. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 293 abstentions, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u252	The royal decree law is validated. [[Prolonged applause from many ladies and gentlemen, some of them standing by looking at the guest gallery]] We now vote for the adoption as a draft law by the urgency procedure of the Royal Decree Law 16/2022 of 6 September, for the improvement of the working and social security conditions of working women in the service of the household. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 341 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u253	It will therefore be treated as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u254	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Draft Employment Act. Amendments to the full refund. Amendment to the full refund submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 50 against, 292 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u255	The amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u256	Request for avocado. Requests submitted by the Republican and Plural Parliamentary Groups for the plenary of the House of Deliberation and Final Voting of the Bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 337 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u257	It is held at the plenary session of the House. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIC LAW AMENDING ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE TO PROHIBITION PROXENTEISM IN ALL THEIR FORMS. [[File number 122/00224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u258	Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the Organic Law Proposition amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to prohibit pimping in all its forms, submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mrs Vehí Cantenys]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 34 against, 293 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u259	The amendment was rejected. - PROPOSAL FOR A LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER ON THE CRIMINAL CODE TO DEPEND ON THE INJURY OF THE CORRONA AND THE OTHERS IN SPAIN [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 124/000013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u260	Proposal for a law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to decriminalize the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain [[of the United Nations]] We voted for the amendment to the entire alternative text tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 11 against, 242 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u261	The amendment was rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group to the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 152 against, 191 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u262	The amendment was rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 52 against, 202 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-29-CD220929.u263	The amendment was rejected. Very good afternoon, everyone. The meeting rose. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
