ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We will substantiate the appearance, at our own request, of the President of the Government before the plenary of the House to report on the situation with regard to Ukraine. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you to report on the Russian invasion of Ukraine and to express the position of the European Union and Spain on the violation of international legality perpetrated by President Putin. As you know, on 24 February, Europe suddenly remembered its worst nightmares. After weeks of enormous diplomatic efforts by the European Union to ensure peace in Ukraine, the leader of a nuclear power decided to invade a neighbouring, free, sovereign and democratic nation militarily. It did, as we are seeing in the media, cruelly and premeditatedly, without any event that triggered and therefore justifies this invasion. It did so by failing to fulfil its promises and commitments, thereby demonstrating the zero value it conferred on those promises and commitments. And he did it, as we all could hear, with arguments that I would call fallacious, that bring us echoes of that Europe victim of authoritarian leadership, imperialist fantasies and historical hallucinations that we definitely believed to be overtaken on our continent. There are irrational and unjustified decisions, ladies and gentlemen, which put the lives of innocent people at risk in the most cruel way we can imagine. Therefore, at the beginning of this appearance I would like to express to the head of the embassy of Ukraine, who accompanies us in plenary, the pain of the Spanish people for the loss of human lives in the invasion of Ukraine. [[Prolonged applause from the House, stood up, addressed to Mr Matiuschenko, Minister Counsellor and Chargé d'affaires of the Embassy of Ukraine in Spain, who is in the guest gallery.- Mr Matiuschenko thanks the support, stood up, with his hand in the heart]] Mr. Matiuschenko, please convey our support to the Ukrainian people, their Armed Forces and their rulers. We reiterate Spain's commitment, our commitment, solidarity and support for national sovereignty, the territorial integrity of its country, as well as our admiration and respect for the heroism and determination with which its people are fighting for their freedom and independence. This is how I personally transmitted it to President Zelenski last Sunday, in our last telephone conversation. A nation, Ukraine, with which, in addition, precisely this year, we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be very clear in my diagnosis of the origin of this conflict. President Putin does not accept consolidation as a global power of the European Union, whose democratic principles and values are opposed to the authoritarian regime he has imposed on Russia. Putin does not want democracy to move forward, Putin does not want Europe to continue to strengthen itself and that is why it attacks our security, in order to weaken and, consequently, to have an even weaker Europe. Throughout his presidency years, Putin has tried to divide Europe in all possible ways, with fake news, with misinformation, with cyberattacks, and espionage, approaching political actors and also economic actors in our country. On this occasion I thought I could do it again and it has found itself with quite the opposite, with a more united and determined Europe than ever before. We have reason, ladies and gentlemen, for this blunt unity. The invasion decreed by President Putin on Ukraine is a flagrant violation of international legality, it is a violation of the Charter of the United Nations, it is a burst of diplomatic channels as necessary in times of conflict, such as the format of Normandy, the OSCE or also the United Nations itself, and it is an attempt to redefine European borders by force, subjugating populations, imposing puppet governments, as we are also seeing in Belarus, and thus threatening European security. The events of the past few weeks show President Putin's willingness to implement a deliberate plan that aims to return us to a security scheme in accordance with his own particular interests. His expansionist vision has been taking shape over the last few years: in 2008 he intervened militarily in Georgia to support the separatist regions of South Ossetia and also of Abkhazia; in 2014 he occupied and annexed Crimea, and in 2022 he carried out a massive attack on Ukraine, a country in the heart of Europe, of the largest in our continent, bordering four European countries and 44 million inhabitants. Continue with that expansionist mood, and not just that. Putin has threatened countries of deep neutral and democratic tradition, such as Sweden and Finland; he has identified Baltic nations as countries that threaten Russian security; he has demanded a return to NATO's 1997 borders. In short, all an unacceptable provocation. Not only unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that it is inexplicable because, in an era in which we must face as many global challenges as inequality, such as climate change, such as the technological revolution, the ageing of the population, the migratory movements or the very pandemic of the COVID-19 that is still facing the world - challenges, therefore, which require strengthened multilateralism - it seemed absolutely unthinkable to see tanks moving forward again in Europe. But, unfortunately, it is happening and we must therefore be united and decisive in the answer, as we are already doing, because what is at stake, as I said at the beginning of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, is the strength of the European Union, the strength of our values and our principles, our way of understanding and living in the world. Putin's actions represent an attack on the values on which our way of life and the international order, at least the European, has been based since the end of the Cold War. They are and constitute a direct threat to principles as deep-rooted as national sovereignty, such as the territorial integrity of nations, such as the freedom of peoples to decide their future, human rights, the peaceful resolution of conflicts through diplomacy, dialogue and the indivisibility of European security. Putin's decision to invade Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, is a brutal attempt to curb the construction of a political space - the European - based on the defense of values radically opposed to the authoritarianism that he represents. The authoritarianism that represents, for example, the closure of independent media in Russia, as we have seen over these long years, chasing and imprisoning opponents, passing laws that deny, for example, the diversity of Russian society. They are all facts that form part of the same political attitude - they are not connected facts -: their disregard for human rights, democracy and the freedom of societies. And he does it, in addition, with the only language he understands: the language of war. Europe, ladies and gentlemen - I think we can all agree - is the embodiment, with all the defects that it may have, of multilateralism, democracy and the social and democratic rule of law. Countries like Ukraine, like Georgia, like Moldova, with which I also had the opportunity to speak over these weeks, or also all those who make up the so-called Western Balkans space are choosing, freely and democratically, to knock on the doors of the European Union, as we did in the 1980s. They see in Europe the model in which they want to live and also prosper, as Spain did from its first steps in democracy. The European Union, with the development of neighbourhood policies, with the partnership agreement so important that we have with Ukraine, with the Eastern Partnership or with the Southern Neighbourhood project that is driving Spain within the European Union, is trying to support the consolidation of democracy, freedom and the rule of law in these countries. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what Putin really fears. Putin fears the construction and strengthening of a geopolitical power in the European Union at the gates of its borders. Putin fears Europe because he fears democracy. That is why it attacks Europe, a power that represents a model radically opposed to the authoritarianism that it imposes on its population. That is why it wants to end the construction of a strong and powerful Europe in the context of global geopolitics. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, what's at stake. The bombs on Ukraine are the expression of an incarnated struggle between two antagonistic models of being and being in the world: on the one hand, the model of liberal democracies, of human rights, and on the other, authoritarianism that does not respect human rights or the freedom of its own people. It has been said, ladies and gentlemen, that there is rarely a war between two democratic nations and, if we think so, it has all its logic, because a democratic ruler responds to his people and rarely the peoples assume the cost of an unjust and unjust war. Countries that respect the principle of democratic law within themselves tend to accept international legality abroad. We are seeing Russia behaving like an aggressor power on the outside and violating international law by assaulting and invading a third country. But to keep that aggression out Putin behaves like an autocrat inward: arrests of those who protest against the invasion - as we have seen in recent days -, censorship of the independent media, persecution of the opposition and dissent. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my solidarity with the Russian people, who are going to suffer the cost of war for the imperialism of their president. I am convinced that the Russian people do not want war, that the Russian people know that while a few oligarchs, including Putin, amass multimillionaire fortunes, this unjust and unjustified war condemns them to poverty and ostracism in the world. We have seen in the streets of Russia how many citizens oppose this war, and we have also seen the repression by their own government to silence them through arrests. That is why I would like to ask President Putin to release immediately all those persons arbitrarily detained. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must not deceive ourselves or be naive, for Putin everything is a tool for war, whether conventional war or also hybrid war, or also the disinformation campaigns that its terminals amplify. Take, for example, the news he expands to justify the invasion before his own. Putin has come to ensure that his actions are in self-defence, accuses the Ukrainian government of neo-Nazi and of committing genocide against the Russian population living in Ukraine, describes Russia's mission as to demilitarize and also de-nazify Ukraine. In short, lies and more lies and, by the way, a sound manipulation of reality, of history and of the dramatic meaning which the term genocide and Nazism had for humanity in our history. In spite of all your efforts, fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this intense hybrid war of misinformation has not covered the truth, and this is that the Russian invasion of a sovereign country, in this case Ukraine, is an outrage to international legality, while it has found the overwhelming rejection of a vast majority of countries, for example, in the United Nations General Assembly, also in the Council of Europe from which Russia has been expelled, and logically in the unity around the Atlantic Alliance, the G7 and also in the European Union. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dwell for a moment in the European Union. Throughout its history, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has had to face great challenges. It is enough to remember the most immediate ones: in 2016, many people thought that the European project had been killed after the Brexit, with the departure, by the way, of a nuclear power from the European Union. But the Union has shown a strong unity in the defence of its interests and has even made progress in some aspects that seemed impossible in terms of their integration, such as the common security and defence policy. In 2020, ladies and gentlemen, many hoped that the COVID-19 would be a hard, very hard, probably difficult blow to overcome for the European Union, and that it would not be able to recover from this outbreak of the COVID pandemic. However, we were able to launch a health response to the pandemic; even more so, today, Europe is the world's largest vaccine donor, we donate more vaccines than we administer to our own population. And we were also able to boost European funds, recovery funds which, for the first time in the history of the European Union, have meant the issuance of European public debt, which is, in short, one of the main achievements for which, for example, Spain has been working over the last few decades. Funds that are a great opportunity to modernise our economy - to which I will then refer -, to strengthen something very important such as strategic autonomy, to strengthen our welfare model and to consolidate economic recovery and employment, as we have seen in today's data. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are again facing a crisis that I would call brutal, which is also defining, and given this choice to do nothing and look elsewhere or to respond forcefully to Russia and strengthen our resilience as a Union, Europe has decided to strengthen its common project. On the external front, we do so by adopting unprecedented economic sanctions for their strength and also by launching humanitarian aid to help Ukrainian refugees and refugees, and by transferring defensive and offensive material to Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has always understood that this attack is against Europe, its principles and its values. That is why we have always advocated coordinated actions at European level, not a summary - as the High Representative recalled yesterday - of initiatives from each country. We therefore support the activation of the European Peace Fund for the delivery of defensive and offensive arms by the European Union to Ukraine. And I would also like to remind your ladies and gentlemen that Spain is the fourth donor to this fund. This has been my position, it has been the position of the Spanish Government, and I also believe that it is the right one, I firmly believe it. To a European threat we must give a European, coordinated and united response. That is what the high representative, Josep Borrell, asked us to do, and to that call Spain responded instantly. But as I see that there are groups that question the commitment of the Government of Spain in this respect, and for me and for the Government of Spain the unity of all is so important and so fundamental, I would also like to announce that Spain will hand over offensive military material to the Ukrainian resistance. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, unity. Unity of Europe and its Member States. Unity of all parliamentary groups in response to Putin's brutal attack on Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is a peace-loving country. The generations that preceded us fought for forty years against the dictatorship to achieve democracy, freedom and peace. Many of them paid a high price, paid the price of death, imprisonment or exile. That is why we Spaniards are moved when we see a people fighting for their freedom and we are outraged when a country lies to its citizens and oversteps international legality to invade another country. We have a very recent memory of 'No to war', but let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, today the no to the war of Iraq is the no to the war of Putin. [[Applauds]] What has Spain done throughout this crisis? To cement unity and not give Putin what he wants most, which is the division of Europe. Unity in economic aid to Ukraine. The European Union is providing financial assistance to sustain Ukraine's economy, first, by supporting institutional stability, with EUR 12 billion of macro-financial assistance; second, with immediate aid of EUR 45 million for humanitarian assistance and EUR 85 million for health equipment; and third, with EUR 355 million for the reconstruction of critical infrastructures, such as airports. Together with unity in economic aid to Ukraine, we are also deploying, as I said at the beginning, unity in economic sanctions. These sanctions will have a brutal and severe impact on Russia. The ultimate aim is to isolate the Putin government, Putin himself and also the oligarchy that supports him. The packages we have adopted include, among other things, the following measures. Firstly, individual sanctions on President Putin, on Foreign Minister Lavrov, on those responsible for the decisions taken these days, including logically those responsible and military personalities of Belarus. Along with these individual sanctions, financial sanctions have been carried out on State entities and enterprises, on the Government and the Central Bank: restrictions on the flow of Russian capital to the European Union; ban on financial assistance to a list of State enterprises, trade and investment; and ban on the sale of securities by Russian banks. Last Sunday, 27 February, as you know, new financial actions were launched, excluding some Russian banks from the SWIFT system and restricting the use of the international reserves of the Central Bank of Russia, as well as other measures directed against Russian oligarchs. We have also imposed sanctions on the export control of dual-use products, to logically limit that country's military capabilities, as well as additional sanctions in the field of energy for petroleum refining in the aerospace industry. We must add the ban, as you know, on Russian companies flying over the airspace of the whole of the European Union, as well as landing at or taking off our airports, and the ban on broadcasts of various media that we understand are propagandistics of the regime, which are used - not by journalists but by such platforms as Russia Today and Sputnik - for disinformation campaigns. We have also partially suspended the implementation of the agreement on facilitation of the issuance of visas in diplomatic or service passports. And finally, he announced that one of the measures that we are going to push from Spain, both in the European Union and in the OECD, is Russia's declaration as a tax haven, including that country on the blacklist of tax havens. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Putin regime must be clear. These sanctions will be in effect until the invasion ends, leaves Ukraine - from all over Ukraine - and returns to the internationally recognized borders of the Russian Federation; sanctions all of them, ladies and gentlemen, whose impact in Russia we are already checking on the exchange rate of the ruble, on the fall of the stock exchange and the rise of the reference interest rates of the Russian Central Bank. Finally, as I have already told you at the beginning of my speech, last Sunday, 27 February, the Council of European Affairs approved the use for the first time in the history of the European Peace Support Fund for the delivery of arms to Ukraine. In this regard, EUR 500 million will be mobilised, of which EUR 450 million can be used, even for combat weapons and another EUR 50 million for defensive materials. Spain has been among the main drivers for this mechanism to be put in place, being able to provide even offensive material so that Ukrainians can defend themselves from this savage aggression, as further proof of the European Union's commitment to Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, unity in the European response. Unity that Spain will continue to cement in each and every of the actions that we take at Community level, and unity that we have also extended to the Atlantic Alliance. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Putin has made three strategic mistakes with this invasion: the first, logically, is to believe that Ukraine was going to embrace the imperialist velocities of Russia, has clearly underestimated Ukraine's capacity for struggle and resistance; secondly, I believe that he has made the mistake of thinking that Europe was going to divide and has found us, as I said at the beginning of my speech, more united than ever; and thirdly, Putin has reminded us that NATO, as an alliance of States for its security, is more necessary than ever. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember how statements have been made in recent years by all kinds of different leaders announcing, for example, the brain death of NATO, or the threat of the exit of NATO superpowers under Trump's administration in the United States. At the door of the Madrid Summit, where the new strategic concept of NATO will be defined for 2030 - in addition, in the year following 40 years of Spain's entry into NATO - Putin has succeeded in assembling the Atlantic Alliance and the unity between NATO and the European Union. The Atlantic Alliance has agreed, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen the eastern flank to ensure the defence of all allies. As you know, Spain - yesterday we announced - will not send troops to Ukraine, nor is NATO predicting that. I repeat, neither Spain nor NATO will send troops to Ukraine, but we are contributing to strengthening NATO missions, as we announced with the deployment of our ships and combat aircraft in Bulgaria. Our commitment, which is effective and real, is demonstrated precisely by the deployments in Latvia, Bulgaria, Turkey and soon in Estonia. In fact, Spain has decided, together with NATO, to increase with 150 troops our contingent in the Allied mission in Latvia, which until now had 350 soldiers within the framework of the so-called Enhanced Presence. I believe that it is perfectly reflected in the agreements of the Council of Ministers on peace missions abroad which we adopted last December. In addition, beyond the immediate response to this crisis, we must continue to adapt and strengthen the Atlantic Alliance to meet the security challenges we face. Spain will support Ukraine in dealing with this attack. In addition to joint actions under the umbrella of the European Union and NATO, we have sent, as you know, 20 tons of humanitarian aid, two Spanish Air Force aircraft loaded with personal defensive equipment, as well as medical equipment. And in this regard, I have the firm intention of providing Ukraine with all the help and support that is possible, in accordance, logically, with our country's capabilities. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government has been mobilized from the outset to deal with all the international, European and national consequences that could arise from this conflict. A permanent and coordinated follow-up of the situation was carried out with all the ministries involved and, on the basis of our National Security System, the Situation Committee was also activated, which, as you know, is a body that is envisaged in the National Security Council as a support body, acting on the basis of strategic guidelines, if crises so require. And last 24 February, as you know, we met at the National Security Council presided over by the Head of State, King Philip VI. I informed the main opposition leader about the situation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has appeared before the General Courts, has been in contact with all the parliamentary groups and, likewise, I have had the opportunity to speak with the former Presidents of the Government who preceded me in the post to inform them of the situation and to obtain from them a vision derived from their international experience. In this respect, I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge and thank the support and support expressed by the various political groups for this unprecedented and complex situation. I would also like to thank diplomatic personnel, and in particular our embassy in Kiev, and the State security forces and bodies for their work in these difficult days. I would especially like to recognize those who have contributed to the evacuation of the more than one hundred compatriots who decided to leave Ukraine. I would also like to say a few words to all the people who make up the Armed Forces and, in particular, those who participate in the various external missions, because thanks to their professionalism, thanks to their dedication, Spain is contributing to the collective effort for the maintenance of international peace and security. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the brutal invasion of Ukraine places us in the face of the need to defend our unnegotiable principles for a country like Spain; principles that affect fundamental aspects of the international order in which we believe and, therefore, the position of Spain is firm and decisive, clear and strong. However, I am going to be frank in this House, because we must also speak clearly to the Spanish and Spanish; the measures that we have adopted and those that we can adopt in the future within the European Union and also within the Atlantic Alliance will have a cost and will require sacrifices. As I warned last week, sanctions will have an impact on the European and Spanish economy, not only on macroeconomic figures, on state budgets or also on the business economy; they will have a logical impact on the family economy and also on commodities. All this inflationary tension, its derivatives, economic uncertainty, the sensitive increase in prices and the services most immediate to any need are going to have a cause, the unjustifiable war in Ukraine, and a guilty one, President Putin. And just as we are acting together in the response to Putin, just as we are united in supporting the economic and all kinds of sanctions that the European Union is putting forward to Russia, we must also act together in addressing the consequences of these same sanctions and, in general, the impact of this conflict on Spain and Europe. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to all parliamentary groups to achieve a pact of unity; unity in the response to the invasion and unity in the response to mitigate the impact of the war between us. I'll be more precise. Firstly, it is more than likely that financial and commercial sanctions will have an impact on Spanish exports to Russia, on investments by Spanish companies in that country and on Russian tourist flows in Spain. In addition, there is more than likely to be sudden interruptions in imports from Ukraine, one of the main suppliers of cereals, sunflower oil and other imports of agricultural products; but the most important and predictable impact will be on energy markets. Unlike other European countries, the Spanish dependence on Russian gas and oil is smaller. Spain only imports around 4.6% of Russia's oil and 8% of its gas; the direct impact will therefore be more limited. I can guarantee that security of supply is guaranteed, but in any case, the impact will be important on our country and on the European economy. The uncertainty associated with the conflict is already causing significant increases in wholesale prices of gas and crude oil markets, as we have seen in recent days. It is highly foreseeable that prices will remain high and volatile in the future with the direct impact on the consumer price index and, therefore, on the purchasing power and welfare of our compatriots. The result of all this will be a slowdown in economic growth in our country and in Europe, with fewer investments at a key time when Europe and Spain are consolidating economic recovery following the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Europe is, ladies and gentlemen, under an obligation to pay with this sacrifice what Ukrainians are paying with their freedom and with their lives. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the cost of non-response would be even greater than what we are going to suffer. Consequently, we must put a stop to Putin's imperial and authoritarian ambition among all of us. Therefore, aware that the response to the war is going to require sacrifices, we, ladies and gentlemen, have a huge responsibility to take action within our reach to prepare ourselves and make the impact as little as possible, especially on the most vulnerable families. To this end, the unity I propose is oriented towards working on two fronts. The first, the European, and the second, the national. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that Europe is facing a conflict with Putin that will last a long time. Europe - I have no doubt - will certainly prevail, but we are facing a long crisis. Europe must therefore reduce its vulnerabilities and put an end to its weaknesses. Firstly, we must act on the European Union's own strategic vision, we must work on what is called our strategic autonomy, reduce our dependencies and strengthen our capacity to act in such dramatic situations as are currently being experienced in Ukraine. This attack is aimed at Ukraine, but that is not the immediate objective; Putin's real objective is to question Europe's security architecture. In order to meet this challenge, the only way forward is to make further progress in integration in areas such as the common foreign and defence policy; we must improve decision-making processes; we must make greater use of the qualified majority rule; we must therefore replace unanimity; and we must activate the common security and defence policy more effectively, of course, in full complementarity with NATO. As you know, we are working in the European Union and we are about to adopt the so-called Strategic compass, which is the European Union's defence strategy. Within the framework of NATO we are embarking on a process of reflection on the future that will culminate in the Madrid Summit next June with the adoption of the so-called Strategic Concept, that is, the strategic orientation of NATO by 2030. From Spain we want both documents - that of the European Union and that of NATO - to be fully aligned and that the two organisations complement each other in achieving their objectives. To this end, it will be very important to publish a new joint declaration on the European Union's relations with NATO, in which we are already working from both organisations. Secondly, we must react definitively to the energy security and dependence that some very important countries within the Union have on Russia. The Union depends, ladies and gentlemen, on almost 40% of a gas supplier which is generating the biggest security crisis in Europe since the Second World War. In these circumstances, we have to address the problem of security of supply, but I do not think we have to stay there. We must take advantage of these debates to resolve once and for all the problem of rising energy prices and the energy market as a whole. It was said that the problem of rising prices was temporary - we have heard this over the last few months - but now we see that the situation is not going to be resolved in the short term, rather on the contrary. This crisis has brought us greater uncertainty that has to serve as an acquittal to find structured solutions, permanent solutions. These solutions need to increase our capacity to adapt and transform the current energy system. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has been leading concrete and ambitious proposals for this purpose for months, and we will continue to play a proactive role in putting our regasification capacity at the service of Europe, among other issues. At this point, I would like to recall that it is also urgent to make determined progress on electrical interconnections. As you know, the European Commission is preparing a second communication on energy, which we are going to expect to be issued as soon as possible, and which should take up some of the proposals on which the Spanish Government has been insisting for months, even before Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Some of these proposals are as follows. First, measures to reduce volatility and temporarily decouple gas and electricity prices, which would prevent the extraordinary rise in the wholesale gas price from marking the price of all electricity. Secondly, to encourage long-term contracts between agents to give stability to prices. Thirdly, measures that clearly address the speculation problems of the CO2 emissions market. With regard to gas, the European Commission has already announced the adoption of measures proposed by our country, such as joint purchases of gas and the creation of strategic reserves between several countries. In short, it is about ensuring that consumers perceive the benefits of decarbonising this energy transition, making this transition fair, that they do not pay unequally for the most vulnerable. I have talked about the decisions to be taken by Europe regarding strategic autonomy and energy security. I would now like to talk about the decisions that affect the humanitarian consequences of this war. Ladies and gentlemen, the invasion of Ukraine is already testing our refugee reception structures; it is assuming, as you know, a new wave of refugees, and this time our response has to be, logically, much more coordinated than we had in 2015. I would like to thank all the public institutions, the autonomous communities, also the municipal governments, for their demonstration to welcome possible refugees from Ukraine in our country, who are not coming massively to our country at the moment, but who, taking into account the Acnur figures, which already speak of 660,000 Ukrainians and Ukrainians who have left the country, this figure is clearly going to continue to grow and we are going to have to face this migration crisis. To that end, I believe that it is important and urgent to move forward in the negotiation of the Pact on Migration and Asylum, with a balance between solidarity and responsibility that responds to the needs of the States of first entry. I believe that solidarity is going to be fundamental to addressing the humanitarian consequences of this crisis. And in response to this humanitarian emergency, the European Commission has already proposed, as you know, to activate the temporary protection directive, which guarantees asylum for Ukrainian refugees without the need to apply the usual procedures. This week, the Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs are going to study this proposal, and if adopted, it would be the first time that the temporary protection directive has been activated since its entry into force in 2001. Finally, Europe must take decisions in the field of taxation. As you know, by the end of this year, the so-called Stability and Growth Pact escape clause is coming to an end, which has allowed Member States to commit the necessary spending programmes to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. I think we can all agree that, in the current context of war, it does not seem reasonable to return to the previous fiscal rules, which would force a tax adjustment disproportionate to the risk that this would entail for the recovery and also for the social cohesion of our continent. Now more than ever, in this new crisis, the Spanish Government is going to advocate, as it has been doing in recent years, for an adaptation of these fiscal rules so that we can continue to make progress in the recovery of the crisis provoked by COVID-19 and to address future investment needs in adaptation and mitigation to climate change, digital transformation and greater strategic autonomy for Europe, including strengthening common security. In short, ladies and gentlemen, at the European level, I ask you to promote Spain's unity in terms of energy and strategic autonomy, the revision of fiscal rules and the Pact on Migration and Asylum. And at the national policy level, it is our duty to push forward a national plan to respond to the impact of the war, and the Government is already in it. This plan has two characteristics, I think it should be open and dynamic. Open to the contributions that parliamentary groups, the rest of governments - autonomous and local - and social actors can make to the Executive. And it must also be dynamic, because in this first phase some of the consequences of the war are absolutely unpredictable. The national plan to respond to the impact of the war that I propose will have the following axes. First of all, we have to push for a big deal, a big income pact. We are all aware that one of the greatest economic risks of war is the price of energy, various raw materials and the translation to the cost of living. Throughout the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can all agree that social partners, trade unions and employers have given us an example of true patriotism, achieving among themselves and also with the Government up to fifteen important agreements that have ensured social peace during the pandemic and also, with agreed reforms, laying the foundations for our country's economic recovery and competitiveness. That is why I would like to invite the social partners to achieve an income pact, a great country agreement that provides stability and confidence, both from the perspective of wage costs and from the moderation of the margins and profits of companies, and all this with the aim of avoiding falling into an inflationary spiral that undermines the purchasing power of families, savers and puts economic recovery at risk. Secondly, the Government will protect the most vulnerable families, as we have done over these two years of legislature and two long years of pandemic. We will also deal with these consequences on the war front. For this reason, the Government is going to extend the discount of the electric social bonus by 60% for vulnerable groups and by 70% for severe vulnerable groups until 30 June. In addition, we invite the autonomous communities, local authorities, associations and social actors to redouble their efforts to assist the most vulnerable groups and to take additional social measures to improve and guarantee the conditions for confronting this energy shock in families. This is going to be one of the points I will take to the Conference of Presidents, which will take place in a few days. The third area, ladies and gentlemen, in which we propose to act is energy. We will devote important actions with the aim of accelerating our country's energy transition. When we talk about energy autonomy, ladies and gentlemen, we talk about strengthening and doubling and intensifying this energy transition that we have been making for three years now. As you know, the government's road map to a cleaner and decarbonised economy is clearly marked in the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan approved by the European Commission last June 2021, with €70 billion in European funds for the next three years. The plan is the responsibility of all public administrations, including the autonomous communities and local governments, whom it has called to cooperate closely in the implementation of the plan. Today more than ever, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for all administrations to be united and firm, in action and working together in order to be able to implement European funds as efficiently and as quickly as possible. These funds represent an investment in the modernisation of Spain that we cannot miss, and in this context I appeal to the parliamentary groups, to all the autonomous governments to take advantage of the opportunity represented by these European funds and to remove from the equation of political and partisan confrontation the management of European funds. In this direction, the energy measures already envisaged in the recovery plan are important, but in the current context the Government will take additional short-, medium- and long-term measures to protect families, businesses and our industry from the rise of the bill and thereby accelerate the energy transition. Immediately, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Government is going to extend until 30 June the tax measures currently in force at lower rates for energy: VAT on electricity to 10%, suspension of the tax on the value of electricity production, excise duty on electricity to a minimum of 0.5% and the temporary reduction of the extraordinary benefit of non-stationary gas generation plants will also be extended until 30 June, as a result of the impact of certain costs that they do not actually bear. And as other European countries do, we are going to protect our electrically-intensive industry, which is suffering tremendously from high electricity prices, and for this, during 2022, tolls will be reduced by 80% to more than 600 electrically-intensive consumers and the flexibility measures in natural gas supply contracts for industrial consumers will be extended until 30 June. Ladies and gentlemen, together with these short-term measures that I have just announced to you, it is necessary to undertake additional medium- and long-term actions to accelerate the green transition and thereby reduce our country's energy dependence and I would also say to the whole of the European Union. Firstly, it should be stressed that the cheapest energy is not wasted. Spain has a lot to do in the field of energy efficiency, since 30% of the energy consumption in Spain is produced by the building park, largely due to its high age. The recovery plan already provides important resources for the energy rehabilitation of residential buildings, including public buildings, but in the current context, the Government wishes to set an example through the General Administration of the State and urgently. We will activate the energy consumption reduction plan in the buildings and infrastructure of the General Administration of the State associated with air conditioning, mobility and public lighting. We will approve a budget of EUR 100 million for the replacement of public lighting, which will allow consumption reductions of 70% in this area. Together with the improvement of energy efficiency, we are going to implement the following structural measures aimed at accelerating the deployment of renewables and strengthening energy autonomy in our country: we are going to allocate an additional 500 million euros to accelerate self-consumption; we are going to remove barriers linked to electricity connection and also to speed up administrative processing; we are going to convene this first half of the year an additional auction of renewable energy to those already planned in the calendar, with the aim of accelerating its deployment in our country, and we are going to allocate a new 1000 million euros for the strategic project linked to renewable energy, hydrogen and storage, the project PERTE ERHA, with the aim of developing new renewable and storage projects that will allow us to increase the manufacture of photovoltaic, wind and ensure the supply of these basic elements for the energy transition. [[Applauds]] Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the field of employment, in anticipation of temporary situations of depletion, cost increases or reductions in demand in specific sectors, the Government will speed up the approval and implementation of the RED Flexibility and Stabilization of Employment Mechanism. As you know, this instrument, included in the labour reform - recently approved and agreed with the social partners - will enable companies undergoing temporary or structural crises to adopt measures to reduce working hours, temporarily suspend employment contracts, always linked to retraining and vocational transition programmes. The fifth area of action concerns the tourism sector, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of Spain is working on the search for alternatives that can fill a possible absence of Russian tourists this coming high season in those destinations of our country preferred by them - as is the case, for example, of Catalonia - and if the conflict expands and affects the holiday period, we will be in a position to intensify the promotion of our most exposed destinations in other European markets likely to compensate for the absence of Russian tourists. In the area of the primary sector and in particular in the agricultural sector, which can be strongly affected by rising prices and disruptions in the supply of cereals and also in oilseeds - which are key to food and feed - I would like to announce that our country is going to ask the European Commission to use all the means at its disposal to facilitate the supply of cereals and oilseeds on European and international markets. Furthermore, if necessary and in the light of future developments in the conflict, we will call for the activation of the mechanisms of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets to provide the necessary support to farmers and livestock farmers. [[Applauds]] Therefore, this national plan to respond to the impact of the war includes measures in the field of labour, energy, income pact, protection of vulnerable families, protection of sectors directly affected by sanctions and the demand to eliminate from the partisan confrontation a tool more necessary today than ever, such as European funds. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to the area of our country's strategic autonomy, in which we need to take measures in coherence and alignment with the rest of our European partners. In the digital and technological sectors, we will also accelerate and strengthen investment in sectors such as microchips, semiconductors, storage and batteries, the deployment of 5G-related technologies, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, data centres or the production of basic principles and essential medicines. Secondly, we are going to launch the creation of a reserve of goods considered strategic with the aim of preserving the rights and freedoms, the well-being of citizens, the provision of essential services and the resources of first necessity and strategic nature. This reservation is covered by the National Security Strategy, which is currently being discussed in Parliament. Thirdly, we need to strengthen cybersecurity in the face of possible cyber attacks, which are one of the main risks to the functioning of public administrations, businesses, critical infrastructure and financial markets. On the one hand, the Cybersecurity Operations Centre, which is promoting cybersecurity in the autonomous communities and municipalities, will be operational in the coming days, and, in addition, the National Cybersecurity Strategy will be approved by the Council of Ministers in the near future. And fourthly, in the coming years all the countries of the Union - also Spain - are called upon to increase our international commitments in the area of security and defence. The intention of the Government of Spain is that this greater effort should be clearly accompanied by the strengthening and development of our national industrial and technological capacities. In short, ladies and gentlemen, if we agree on the diagnosis, and it is that this is an attack on Europe, on its security, on its principles and that Europe is precisely a threat to Putin; if we agree that European unity is our main force to deal with this threat as real as it is disturbing that Putin represents; if we are united in the response to an unjust and unjustified invasion of the Putin regime in Ukraine, we must be united in the response that we have given from both Europe and Spain to the economic and social consequences of this war conflict. A war conflict, ladies and gentlemen, which is neither desired nor sought by Europe, but which will find the united response of all of Spain and all of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by reflecting. I believe that throughout the history of Europe our continent has learned with all cruelty and also with all suffering that war is never the solution, that democracy is always the way to make progress in our societies. The road to Europe, ladies and gentlemen, has never been easy; sometimes - certainly too often - it is a story full of pain and suffering, but Europe has learned from that pain and suffering. That is why we are determined to defend the ideal of peace and freedom, democracy and social justice that we have had so much difficulty in achieving. Today, ladies and gentlemen, two paths open up to Spain and Europe: the path of peace and international legality or the path of illegitimate force that only leads to world disorder. For Spain as for the whole of Europe, the choice is tough, but it is simple. We are a country, we are a union committed to the values of peace, international legality and solidarity, on this occasion with the Ukrainian people. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the floor. Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, on the floor...............................................................................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u4	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to start the intervention by reiterating the condemnation of the brutal, illegal and unjust invasion suffered by the people of Ukraine. In the People's Party we wish to show our solidarity with the citizens and the Government of Ukraine and send, as it cannot otherwise be, a message of sympathy to the families of all the deceased. I also take this opportunity to greet in a special way the Minister Counsellor of the Embassy of Ukraine, the highest representative of the Government of Ukraine in Spain, who accompanies us today from the guest gallery. [[Applauds]] Today more than ever we can't fail them. Once again Europe is again suffering the disasters of war. We thought we had seen the possibility of such actions in Europe disappear; we believed that the Second World War was going to be the last conflict between nations on our continent; we believed that the Helsinki Final Act, signed by all European countries in 1975, ended any possibility of a revision of borders; we believed that the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989 had put an end to the idea of block policy and the imposition of a nation's will on the sovereign free law of the weakest other countries; we believed that invasions such as those suffered by Hungary in 1956 and then Czechoslovakia in 1968 would not be repeated; we believed that democracy and economic, energy and financial ties intertwined interests strong enough to avoid future conflicts; we believed that looking elsewhere in Georgia in 2008 and actually tolerating what happened with the occupation of Crimea in 2014 - that is, pacifying Putin - would contain its stated purpose of breaking the international order and expansionist will. All this we believed, ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer believe it. Once again it is shown that the policy of power and strength is a temptation for those who believe they are invulnerable by the weakness of opponents. Once again it is shown that peace is not preserved by the mere fact of wanting it. There are those who have no limits, who do not comply with the rules and who renounce dialogue to resolve conflicts. Evil exists. The enemies of democracy, freedom and civilization exist. There's Putin. It is therefore a hard lesson for those who might think that defence and security policies are superfluous. It is a hard lesson for those who think that the military budget can be countered to that of social policies, forgetting that without security there is no welfare state. [[Applauds]] It is a hard lesson for those who believe that apart from political alliances, such as the European Union, or military, such as NATO, it is better to live or even possible to live in an autonomous way. Ladies and gentlemen, Putin's attack has been on a militarily weak nation, a nation that is not part of any of the great alliances, political or military, but Kiev today is the heart of Europe and Ukraine is the symbol of all our values. [[Applauds]] It is a nation that in the past has agreed to disarm its nuclear resources. In 1994, in the Budapest Memorandum, it delivered 5,000 nuclear warheads in exchange for recognition of its borders. That is why this invasion is doubly immoral. There are no limits to the violations Putin has carried out. In short, Ukraine is a militarily weak nation and has renounced its nuclear weaponry, so it has never been a threat to Russia, but to Russian nationalism it has always been an obsession. I insist on the militarily weak, because President Zelenski and the character of the Ukrainian people are demonstrating an enormous strength. It is therefore necessary to begin to assume with maturity and responsibility that there is nothing more provocative for the predators of peace and the independence of nations than the weakness of the sterile pacifism of some and that peace is preserved better by being within NATO than by being outside. It is therefore necessary to reiterate that the eastward expansion of the Atlantic Alliance was a good idea that reality has confirmed. [[Applauds]] In these times of international revisionism by Russia and China, which goes from Ukraine to Taiwan, it is necessary to redouble our commitment to NATO and to review and resolutely strengthen all our military capabilities, contemplating scenarios that we believe to be unlikely today. Spain needs to fulfil the responsibility we acquired in 2014 for the defence budget to reach 2% of GDP. Let us stop looking at defence as an expenditure when we know it is an investment in our security, our freedom and our democracy, because the unlikely has become a reality in Europe and we cannot forget that we Europeans now have all our borders destabilised. Mr. Sanchez, things are as they are and not as we would like them to be. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty and responsibility as the main opposition party to stand alongside the government and our international allies, both in NATO and in the European Union, so that they act with urgency and determination, and here we are. We have been, are and will be a party of state to the extent of your responsibility, which we also demand from you, Mr Sánchez, because so far your commitment to Ukraine has been the lowest of all the great countries of the European Union. We are the fourth power of the euro and, instead of sending military material to repel an invasion, you so far the only thing you have sent have been gloves and hydroalcoholic gel. It announces changes and sending offensive material. We would like to see it put into practice here today and hope that this change will be the road map that the Spanish Government will follow from now on. [[Applauds]] Even that moral duty of military aid to Ukraine, which all Spanish society supports, is conditioned - and you know it perfectly well - by its alliance with Podemos. We support his rectification and also tell him to do so with determination, not as he did just two days ago on Spanish Television, where he denied it. Do not be afraid to behave with dignity in this war and, if your coalition allies fail, do not worry about this issue. Let us go this way together, but you do not fail neither the people of Ukraine nor the people of Spain. [[Applauds]] We only ask you to do the same as the European Social Democracy, which has once again resolutely defended Western values of democracy and the rule of law with the courageous decision of Chancellor Scholz. From the very first moment this ravaged crisis emerged forcefully, the People's Party showed its support to the Government to take all necessary action to prevent aggression, whatever it costs. But if there is to be a real state policy, we need to keep the channels of communication open, because a state policy is not a timely conversation, Mr Sánchez; a state policy is to permanently transfer information and even not hesitate to seek co-responsibility in decision-making, and we are prepared to do so. That has not existed so far in the dimension that this crisis requires, but we hope that it can be implemented immediately. Mr Sánchez, you know perfectly well that the support offered by my group and my party to you is stronger and more reliable than the opposition to NATO and the hesitations in the defence of Ukraine that some members of your Government are demonstrating. We have heard in recent days how the former Vice-President, Mr Iglesias, instead of condemning the violation of international legality, refers to the invasion as a military operation to defend Ukraine; not to mention the plans to hand over Putin defended by Mrs Belarus or Mr Garzón's criticism of NATO. He knows as well as I do that this equidistance is nothing more than tactical pacifism, because in reality what they claim and hide is their belligerence in favour of Putin. I therefore ask you to live up to the size of the challenge before us in this international crisis. It is time for Spain to play on the international board in its rightful position, not in which you condemn us. It must regain the weight and international credibility that will enable us to maintain a real and non-fictitious relationship with the United States, a country that has repeatedly left it out of all the summits it has convened on this issue. But this support is also, as it could not otherwise be, demanding support. We demand you to continue to push through within the European Union all - absolutely all - the sanctions on Russia and the nations that support this invasion as necessary. [[Applauds]] In this sense, there is much more that Spain can do to stop Ibero-American countries from cooperating with Russia. Our influence in the region is also for that, especially when Moscow does not rule out using American soil to extend its threatening will. It also has our support in Europe through the European People's Party. We're waiting for you to ask us something, because you've already shown how far you can go on your own. Mr Sánchez, we must maintain unity within the European Union and we know that it is not easy, because it is undeniable that the economic sanctions imposed on Russia, as you have said, can lead to negative consequences for our economies. We must be prepared to deal with them and to take compensatory and balanced measures in those sectors that may be affected. In any case, nothing will be comparable to the risk of thousands and thousands of Russian citizens courageously protesting against Putin these days in his country. With all of them we show our solidarity and support and also tell them that we will not fail them. [[Applauds]] As you said very well, in this first half of the year we are immersed in the work of promulgating the so-called strategic compass of the European Union, a compass that should never lose the north of whose is our main security umbrella: the United States. That compass must look to the Atlantic, as it happened in 1949, when Russia became a threat to Europe for its communist expansionism. But, Mr Sánchez, we also need to review what has failed. The invasion has occurred and in all these months Spain has not been able to make any decision by itself beyond it seems that it did. Ukraine has been asking for material not only offensive - i.e. military material - but also defensive, such as helmets or bulletproof vests, and we have not been agile nor have we lived up to the circumstances. We must do self-criticism and rectify. Let us hope that your speech today will be an amendment to that whole attitude. [[Applauds]] His Foreign Minister, Mr Álvarez, insisted on the theory of the four: diplomacy, distension, descalation and deterrence. Regrettably, diplomacy has overshadowed others, rather than deploying much more determined, decisive and ambitious cooperation. We are on time and we trust that this path will take place, because the reality is that Ukraine has been left helpless while Putin was being begged not to do what he had announced he was going to do. Mr Sánchez, of all the ways, you have chosen the simplest and least determined to stop an aggression that has been transmitted to the world in real time, but we are in time to rectify. He announces changes and we hope they will be fulfilled, because Putin won't stop. We have seen how their threats already point directly to the sovereignty and independence of nations such as Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Sweden and Finland. The high representative of the European Union, Mr Borrell, has repeated on many occasions since the events in Afghanistan last summer the need for the European Union to learn to use the language of power. Yesterday he reminded us of all the Democrats. Let us listen to him; he was his minister. Follow the path that you marked with force yesterday. We must abandon the naivety that only good offices serve to solve problems. Firmness and endurance are inescapable. In the area of our membership of NATO, we support you in the impetus and increase of our military presence - if required - in all the missions that are already taking place in the region, but if, as a result of the invasion of Ukraine there is a change of strategy in the missions that we are carrying out in the region, I think it would be very positive to bring this issue to Parliament, as required by the defence law. And do not fear for the position of its partners, because it will have the parliamentary support of the People's Parliamentary Group and would prove that Spain is a reliable country, which, as I have said to you, is still in question today. [[applause]] As the European Union is about to publish the strategic compass - you have repeated it too - NATO is immersed in the work of revising its strategic concept. That new concept must be adopted at the next NATO summit, to be held in our country in June, and it must be equally consistent with the facts that we are experiencing, which undoubtedly mark a turning point for the allied countries. We have not yet heard the Government's position on this issue, and we believe that Spain should have a country position, so I encourage you to look at this group too, not its partners; it depends on you. There is an urgent need for a humanitarian aid plan for the Ukrainian civilian population, as well as a contingency plan for the mass reception of Ukrainian refugees fleeing the war; also, Mr Sánchez, of the Ibero-Americans who have been trapped and are asking for help. From the People's Party we also give him the support of the autonomous communities, the parliaments and the municipalities that we govern so that we can receive all the refugees of war, especially the weakest: children, the elderly and women. Mr Sánchez, you have advanced us and presented us with a national response plan for the impact of the war. I just hope it is an amendment to the whole of what the Reconstruction Committee meant. That work did not serve what you announced to us and now it is no longer worth going back on the mistakes made. You have stated a few measures, which we will read carefully, but I also warn you: you have urged the autonomous communities and the municipalities to deal with the energy shock, and I urge you to pay what you owe to the autonomous communities and the municipalities so that they can deal with the energy shock. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u5	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u6	We are also pleased that inflation is rectified. Mr Sánchez, we have a starting point for this. You are talking about the extension of tax measures in relation to electricity; I also extended them to gas. We are in a moment to anticipate and not to act again on events that have taken place. At times like this, Mr Sánchez, it is when people are known not only, but the character of countries. Spain is a country that wants to be relevant internationally and we must live up to our responsibility. We must do so because of our geostrategic position as the southern door of Europe and the border with Africa, as the Atlantic and Mediterranean countries at the same time and because of our link with the American continent. Mr Sánchez, let us act together, but also convinced that our cohesion in the defence of freedom and the values that inspire the coexistence of our societies is an essential tool to meet with better expectations the future for Spain, the European nations and the world. You ask for unity, we are willing to work for it and with it. Let's hope you're up to it too. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister Counsellor of the Embassy of Ukraine, Mr Dmytro Matiuschenko, is at home and, apart from the parliamentary debate that you will see here today, you have no doubt that we are with your Government and with your people. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, everything you have said in this rostrum is absolutely irrelevant. Look at how much it is that much of your speech has been constant appeals to unity, to all kinds of units in all areas, but you have not been an example of unity because even a part of your Government has refused to applaud you. A nation's foreign policy needs to be credible, it needs to be reliable and it needs to be respectable. You are not credible; your own voters know this, who you lied to during the past elections and who you betrayed 24 hours after completing the elections, in breach of your promises and commitments. You are unreliable because your government partners are against our international commitments. And you are not respectable as president because you sit on that chair thanks to the votes of the enemies of our sovereignty, of our unity and of the constitutional order. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Sánchez, are not qualified to lead Spain At this serious moment in our history and that manifest inability translates into ruin and insecurity for the Spaniards. Mr Putin is guilty of a very serious violation of international law and is guilty of a war that already threatens us and involves us all without us being able to avoid it. The international community has a duty to apply the most serious sanctions to Russia for this aggression. And yet what do we have here, in this government, in this House? Mrs Lastra - who is not here at the moment - Mrs Montero, Mrs Belarra, Mr Pisarello, Mr Santiago - who was still clinging to your chair to refuse to applaud the sending of weapons - you are all direct accomplices to this aggression by Russia against Ukraine, you and the Puebla Group to which you belong. [[Applauds]] I am not exaggerating, you are Putin's international allies and, through your parties or the criminal organizations to which you belong, like the Puebla cartel, you are dedicated to hindering the world's response to Putin. Podemos, who has been repeating since 2014 that Ukrainian governments are neo-Nazis, as Russian propaganda literally says. He did so yesterday until four days ago, Vice-President, which I believe still has a lot of influence and a lot of command in this government, which has protested because it arms the civilian population, when he recently said that an unarmed people is a slave people. They do it United Left and Bildu, who voted against Ukraine in the European Parliament yesterday. This is done by the Puebla Group to which you belong, which is here in this Chamber and in this Government, calling for no sanctions to be imposed. And their parties do, protesting right now against the Atlantic Alliance. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, all those Putin allies I have just appointed are in your government or they support your government and, therefore, you and your government are unreliable, not credible and not respectable. [[Applauds]] And I regret to inform you, Mr Sánchez, that this is not just my opinion, because I am aware that this mistrust of you has already taken place in several European chancelleries and that is a humiliation that Spain cannot afford. You are so used to giving cat for hare to your voters, and to us in this House too, that you think our European partners are going to admit their magic tricks and their fireworks. But that's why you are no longer invited or put on the phone or thanked for the calls and your international summits for thirty seconds. [[Applauds]] On the confusion of the shipment of weapons to Ukraine - which you have not clarified today, but have rectified in this rostrum - I must say that you have not applauded him or his Vice-President of the Government. I don't think that's very reassuring for our international partners. Also, at the end of their speech they showed a unity'so great' that some clapping standing, others clapping sitting and others clinging to the armchair without clapping. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, your partners don't want me to send weapons to Ukraine's resistance. They want us to just send helmets and tirites and tell the Ukrainians to hold the chaparron. Your government wants to be and is in two places at once, with the aggressors and the aggressors, with Putin and with NATO, and that is not possible, Mr Sánchez. Today this Congress should give unanimous support to a President of the Government capable of defending our interests, our alliances and our security, but that President is not you. That being said, it is absolutely clear who is responsible for this very serious situation: Vladimir Putin. And who are the accomplices? Some, unfortunately and to our great shame, are in this Government and in this Chamber. But in addition to being guilty there are responsible and Europeans must think about it. Putin would never have dared to unleash this criminal war if it were not for the European Commission, driven by the two major European parties - popular and socialist - to leave our continent for a long time in a state of absolute vulnerability and economic and energy dependence. [[Applauds]] The COVID, the coronavirus epidemic, caught us debating pyrops and gender-sensitive mathematics and now the invasion of Ukraine has caught European bureaucrats trying to destabilize the Polish government by defending its borders. Mr González Pons of the People's Party, who now threatens to return to national politics, when our Polish allies face the avalanche of immigrants launched by a puppet from Putin, Belarus, travelled to Warsaw not as a member of his party, but to the head of a European delegation with the declared intention of the media to combat the Polish Government. Putin couldn't be more favored. [[Applauds]] Almost all of you in this House have systematically criminalized Poland, week after week, but it is the nation that has dared the most to warn about Putin's threat, which has faced him the most and which is now setting an example not only by supporting Ukraine unreservedly, but also by hosting hundreds of thousands of refugees. For these are refugees of war; these women, children and the elderly must be welcomed into Europe. [[Applauds]] Anyone can now fully understand the difference between these current refugee flows and the invasions of young men of Muslim military and origin who have been launched against different borders of Europe in an attempt to destabilise and colonize it. [[Applauds]] And anyone can now understand the position of VOX and the Polish Government. We must defend our borders, we must defend our sovereignty and we must defend our nations. But for that we must have sufficient military capacity, sufficient energy and sufficient industry to guarantee our freedom and independence; that is, quite the opposite of what you, almost all, have been promoting for decades in the name of goodism, climate religion, stupid pacifism or any other suicidal ideology that has put Europe in the hands of Russian gas, the Chinese industry and the oil of Islamist theocracies. [[Applauds]] So, yes, all of you are responsible for placing Europe and Ukraine in weakness. You, Mr. Sánchez, said that the Ministry of Defence should be abolished. Do you remember or don't you remember? You, gentlemen of the People's Party, although I am pleased with the criticism made to the Chinese Government by Mrs Gamarra, still have an agreement of friendship and collaboration with the Chinese Communist Party. I do not think it is in favour of national industry, our sovereignty, democracy or human rights. And you, lords of the extreme left and separatism, have joyfully received the Russian support that was pleased to promote your criminal intentions against our Constitution and against our national unity. [[Applauds]] That said, not everything was going to be negative. It seems that Europe is suddenly waking up. We have seen a historic change in German politics, which suddenly calls for rearmament and even nuclear energy, starring the very social democrats who have brought us through this cliff. For at least a while, it seems that the globalist deviations, the gender obsession discussed at the last NATO summit and the dogmas of climate religion will be parked. Now they know in France, Germany and Italy that we need to re-energize our energy capacity, including nuclear and even thermal energy. There is nothing more to see about energy programmes at the moment in France, Germany and Italy, while here we shut down nuclear power plants and blow up the thermal power plants. [[Applauds]] Now yes, they know that we must strengthen our armies, we know it all of a sudden. Now yes, they know that our security, our health - and it is important to say so - our well-being cannot depend on totalitarian, communist or Islamist regimes or simply on satraps like Putin. But you, Mr. Sánchez, do not seem willing to wake up from the progressive sleep. It intends to continue a course that has been discredited by reality and history, and that is a problem, because you still have a great capacity, but a great ability to harm Spain. We have to change course. We must understand and adapt to the new realities that make up the world today. Only a month ago we celebrated the Madrid Summit, Mr Sánchez - not what you are going to celebrate within how much - which was attended by prime ministers and representatives of more than ten European countries - and I encourage them to read the document, and thus move away from their lies and traps - which we subscribe to, rejecting Putin's threats, declaring the need to defend our borders and the commitment to fight to regain Europe's energy and industrial capacity. That's the way, and there's no other. You may all delay it more or less, but it will end up giving us reason, have no doubt. And there were already some glimpses in your speech, Mr. Sánchez. The defence budget must be raised as much as necessary. At 2% he said Germany will arrive. Perhaps more so because part of our territory, like Ukraine, is not under NATO protection. [[Applauds]] NATO must be required to put under its cover and umbrella the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla; by the way, a request that you, of all parties, have rejected in Congress and in the Senate for the last few weeks just because you had asked for VOX. [[Applauds]] We must firmly defend our borders and dismantle all the official and subsidized plots of human trafficking that promote invasion and mass immigration to destabilize nations and we must abandon - to see if they do so soon - any anti-national agenda, such as 2030 or 2050, that limits our industrial production capacity or our energy production capacity, also recovering the nuclear programme. And now, we must urgently support Ukraine with all our means, with all conviction, with all the necessary strength, with the economic and military means that are precise, defensive and offensive, and with the most severe sanctions for Putin's criminal aggression. But, sincerely, Mr Sánchez, we believe that you cannot do this because your allies do not allow it and because you in Europe do not believe it, because you in Europe do not give anything to it because neither in Europe nor in the world respect it nor your Government applauds it. Allow a new course for Spain and for the Spaniards. Dismiss, Mr. Sanchez. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u9	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, which accumulates in this turn its turn of replica, Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it is indeed a challenge to speak after Putin's emissary in Spain. I'll answer you in due time. But let's get to the point. We live in dark times. We see with horror a war on European soil, an unjustifiable war on the part of Putin - not of Russia, of Putin - to a sovereign country such as Ukraine and in open violation of international law, a brutal invasion that must be condemned and condemned without palliatives. And we have so clearly our condemnation and we have had it so clear from the beginning - unlike Mr Abascal, who kept silent for a whole morning - because our position is neither the daughter of the conjuncture nor bends before certain media frames, however unanimous and crushing these are. Our position is the result of a deep conviction that our people have already expressed before us with four simple words: No to war; no nuances, no buts. [[Applauds]] And I agree with you, Mr. President: 'No to war' was the no to the Iraq war and now is the no to the Putin war. I agree with you, Mr President: No to war, this and all the others. I also believe that it is my duty at this time to defend the peaceful ways of resolving conflicts. Some have said in the last few hours that defending the peaceful paths is to profile or to put on an equal footing aggressors and aggressors, which, by the way, would deny the existence of the peaceful paths, the peaceful paths could never be pursued. [[Applauds]] This is not only not so, but quite the opposite. The people of 'No to War are always with the assaulted. All our support, Mr. Representative of the Government of Ukraine. From our parliamentary group we are always with the aggressors and we are always against the aggressors, always. That is why the people of 'No to war' opposed the war in Iraq, although we knew perfectly well that Saddam Hussein was a satrap. That is why we opposed the war in Iraq, because we are always against the aggressors. And that is why we are now with the Ukrainian people and we are against Putin, although we are aware that NATO is no sister of charity. The people of 'No to the war' condemn without palliatives the invasion of Putin and support the reinforcements of the Government of Spain and the international reinforcements to curb this barbarity. We think there will be time to talk about NATO, we think there will be time to talk about European strategic autonomy, we think there will be time to talk about arms spending, and everyone knows what my political space thinks about these matters. But for the people of 'No to war' the urgent thing right now is to stop killing, to stop suffering, to stop the fire and to end this barbarism. That is the urgency at the moment, and that is why we support the reinforcements of the Spanish Government and the international reinforcements. And we think that the best effort that can be made - and, unfortunately, we understand that not enough is being done - is to explore the peaceful paths, to explore the dialogued paths and the negotiated paths, because all the war conflicts, all of them, end a peace agreement; all of them, the shortest and longest, all end a peace agreement. And the only question is, how much pain and how much suffering is there until that peace agreement is reached? We want that agreement to be soon, the war to end soon, a ceasefire and the withdrawal of troops from Ukraine as soon as possible. [[Applauds]] And it is our duty to defend peace in this Chamber because, listening to what we have heard, we fear that if we do not defend peace, peace will remain alone, and that would be a terrible problem in this war conflict. We will be dismissed as innocent, we will be said to be goodists, we will be said to be stupid pacifism, as Mr Abascal has just said. But we know that it is quite the opposite: peace is the most difficult thing, peace is the most adult decision. To make a war, it is enough for an autocrat, surrounded by oligarchs, to give the order to attack. But to make peace you need to talk a lot, you need to give in a lot. And peace is far more difficult than war. But at the same time, peace is the only way to avoid death and to avoid human suffering. And in this direction, Mr President, today there has been a central or important issue, which is that of sending weapons to Ukraine. And I have to tell you, with all the loyalty and with all the respect, that, agreeing in the vast majority of what you have expressed, we think that sending weapons, doing it Spain or doing it any other country, is a mistake. And we think it's a mistake because it's not effective at ending the conflict. Many military personnel have told us in private that arming the civilian population against a professional army will not change the correlation of forces. And this conflict can only end in two ways: with a peace agreement or - I hope not - with a NATO troop shipment, led by the United States, something that would be extremely dangerous and that could lead us to a global conflict, but not arming civil society. This is the real debate we have at the moment, whether we are betting on an escalation or on peaceful and diplomatic channels. We bet on the peaceful and diplomatic paths, because we think that an escalation can lead us to a situation of greater suffering, greater death and greater loss for the whole world, for the Ukrainian people, and also of pain and suffering for the other peoples of Europe. Having said that, Mr President, I do believe that some local analysis needs to be done, and I will be brief. Mr Abascal has come here to celebrate the war basically because that will prevent us from continuing to talk about feminism, because that will allow us to bet again on nuclear energy and on fossil fuels-based energies, and he has accused our parliamentary group of being allies of Putin. I think this is an important question that needs to be answered: What is Putin's match in Spain? And there's the data. When VOX was born, one of the main social supports he had was Make You Hear. Make yourself Hear has sat in his patronage, in the patronage of his womb, Russian oligarchs close to Putin. And it is clear that Putin has supported all the extreme right-wing groups in Europe. He has supported Alternative für Deutschland, he has supported Salvini, he has supported Marine Le Pen, all of whom are Mr Abascal's priority partners. Mr Trump recently said that Putin's strategy in Ukraine is a wonder and that the United States should do the same with Mexico as what Russia is doing with Ukraine. Trump is one of Mr.Abascal's intellectual and political references on the planet. It is clear that Mr Putin has supported all the extreme European right-wings. It is evident that Putin's party in Spain is VOX and that Putin's emissary in Spain is Mr Abascal, although he now disguises himself as a cowardly right-handed and denies that tweet he put on in 2015 and proudly quotes Putin and then erases it. [[laughs]] It seems that the cowardly right is not only in the People's Party [[applause]] And I think this also poses an important question to the new leadership of the People's Party, to Mr Feijoo; the question of whether Mr Feijoo, the new leadership of the People's Party, is going to put Putin's party in the governments in Spain. I think it is an important question to ask the new leadership of the People's Party. And to conclude, Mr President, briefly, we too are very concerned about the economic impact of this invasion, of this deplorable invasion of Ukraine, and we think that the price of gas is going to be one of the fundamental elements that can harm the Spanish economy, the European economy and the economy of families and small businesses. That's why we wanted to pick up his hand. You have reached out to make a sort of state pact to protect our country's economy from the consequences of the crisis, and we have wanted to send you a series of measures, which I will briefly summarize here. Firstly, we believe that two legislative tools, one in progress and one approved, are to be activated as soon as possible, namely the draft Law 121/000065 and the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021, which allow to reduce part of the fallen benefits of the electric sky. But we think that this is not enough and that, as you said, it is vital to decouple the rise in the price of gas from the price of electricity. That is why we would like to propose that the gas stations should be withdrawn from the marginalist market, rather than temporarily, we prefer them permanently. This has been done with other technologies, it has been done with part of the new renewables and it can also be done with gas at the moment, where the price of gas is greatly distorting price fixing in the marginalist market. At the same time, we believe that families and small businesses with natural gas facilities should be protected, and in this regard we propose that the Government consider implementing a help check, as has been done in France, and that some kind of shock plan be put in place to replace natural gas technology, that is, so that people can switch natural gas boilers to other technologies that are not directly dependent on gas and can do so at very low cost. We also think that this is in the direction of finalising or completing a real energy transition. And finally, Mr President, you have spoken about an income pact, we cannot agree more and we think that one of the fundamental elements of a real income pact has to do with fiscal justice and fiscal progressiveness, and that is why we also propose a 10% surcharge on corporate tax to the large electricity companies - which, by the way, quadrupled their profit in the year 2021 compared to 2020, one of the years with the most expensive bill of light in history - and that this surcharge on corporate tax can be used to finance all these kinds of measures that you have proposed and that we have also proposed to them. Of course, the most important thing is that there should be a cease-fire and that weapons should be silenced, but it is also important that we protect our economy from the ravages that are going to cause the invasion of the friend of the far right who is now occupying the Kremlin. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u11	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Bad day, bad day today. Bombs are falling on Europe and there are four undisputed truths about this fact. The first is that Putin is an ultrarightist. [[Protests.-Laughter.]] Calm down, I just started. Putin is an ultranationalist. [[Rumors]] And Putin is a dangerous egotist, to be stopped. I mean, whatever happens, all this has to end all the tyrants in the world knowing they can't do whatever they want. And another thing: Putin is not the USSR, Putin is a Romanov. Putin's not a Bolshevik, he's a tsar. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u14	The second truth, the second obviousness in all of this. This isn't a war, it isn't. This is an assault, this is an invasion, and the aggressor and the invader is Putin. By the way, exactly like 20 years ago in Chechnya. That's where I was interested. Now not so much. Putin has not invaded Ukraine, simply because he had already invaded it. The third truth, obviousness. NATO, ladies and gentlemen, is not the 7th Cavalry; sorry, it is not. NATO has been the U.S. arms trade delegate in Europe for the past 80 years. NATO has been defending the interests of the United States in Europe for 80 years. Putin being a satrap doesn't turn NATO into an army of liberation. [[Rumors]] One example: Do you know the difference between Erdogan slaughtering Kurds and Putin slaughtering Ukrainians? It is simple, that from the first we know nothing because it is part of NATO; already, it is the only difference. International legality a la carte. [[Applauds]] The fourth truth, the fourth obviousness. No weapon, no tank, no missile, and no war have ever solved anything. Preventive wars or peace wars don't exist, they're an oxymoron, they're a lie. Wars only sow fascism, bruteness and poverty for the working class and power, privileges and wealth for the oligarchs. So, not war, not war here now and always. [[Applauds]] And so far the obviouss, so far the truths, because there is a fifth, a last truth and last obviousness, the most important and uncomfortable of them all. We are politicians, we are politicians, we are public representatives and it is part of our responsibility to go at times like these far beyond the banner, even if it is uncomfortable and even difficult. If we want to represent as many people as possible - and, in fact, some of us and we even want to represent a country - we have to go much further and we have to take care of a reality that is terrible. Therefore, there is a very uncomfortable and very unpleasant truth, and it is the following - and the phrase is not mine -: Although we are not interested in war, war is interested in us. And sometimes, and they are sometimes more difficult, a politician must prioritize his country's interests above his convictions, especially in international politics. Look, I am above all - I stress, above all - anti-fascist and anti-militarist, but I also know that war, and not peace, is a constant of the human condition, and I also believe, therefore, in the legitimate right to self-defence recognized by the Charter of the United Nations; a self-defence that anti-fascists have already exercised on the streets of my country in the face of savage coups trained in Africa ninety years ago; and, if the international community had helped, it would have supported those republican anti-fascists, surely today Franco would simply be a couptist forgotten by history and this a much better country. [[Applauds]] Therefore and saving distances, today the question is not whether Ukraine should respond to Putin's aggression, today the question is not whether Europe should help in this defence, today the question is simply whether Europe is enough, because Europe is an economic giant but also a geopolitical dwarf. And you know why? Among other things, because the hand that opens and closes the tap of the hot water that allows to shower every morning almost all Europe is handled by Vladimir Putin, simply. Ladies and gentlemen, of the 6,000 nuclear weapons that Putin is estimated to have, Russian natural gas will undoubtedly be and is the first to be used. Here is the importance, for example, of finding alternatives in the Maghreb. And there is a political drift in all this: to face Putin today is not to face the past, it is to face the future, a future plagued by ultra-rightists, ultra-nationalists and liars like him. There are alternatives, ladies and gentlemen, to tanks and weapons. What can stop - ask her - an oligarchical neoliberal who governs on the basis of savage nationalism? What can stop him? What can stop Putin? Touch the only flag that really defends someone like Putin: money, whether it's a ruble, whether it's a dollar or a pound sterling. Putin, surely, probably - in fact, it is happening - can afford to ignore the call of an angry or worried prime minister, but he will never be able to ignore it called by an oligarch who gives him angry support, and the equidistance of China shows this. Look, it is estimated that Russian oligarchs who support and finance Putin hide money abroad worth 85 % of Russian GDP, 85 %. Can you pursue and freeze this money, these assets? Yes, you can. Is that the only pressure you'll understand and answer Putin to? Also. Will it be done? Depends. It paints regularly, first, because almost all of these assets are in a city today better known as 'London Grade', formerly called London - in fact, Italy is already asking that luxury products be removed from the sanctions -, and, second, because it opens this door, opens the door to the persecution of the whitening of the assets of the Russian oligarchs opens the door to pursue the assets of all the corrupt of the world, some of them very close; I don't know, in Qatar. That is why, Mr President, we are asking you today, here, that Spain should lead, within the European Union, a firm position of persecution and retention of the money of the Russian oligarchs abroad who give support and finance Putin. Because, believe me, it'll be something infinitely more persuasive for him than taking away the Champions final or getting them out of Eurovision. By the way, look at Borrell, who's about to ban the Russian salad in Brussels. [[Laughter and applause]] And it's that whoever believes that all this is an accident in history and that we will soon return to the previous balance, is mistaken. In this war we are playing - and we are playing - the framework of the future, a framework of cyclical wars that only seek or weapons of mass destruction false, or appropriation of natural resources, or perpetuating financial, real estate or energy bubbles; in short, refocusing wealth even more in a few hands and gradually destroying democracies. So, here's the dilemma: either you bet on a Green New Deal that supposes a real - real - non-dependency on Russian gas and oil, or any oligarch will be able to put the world in check. Europe's main ally for achieving peace will not be a weapon, it will be its energy autonomy, and it is proving itself. The struggle, ladies and gentlemen, for a green horizon is not only the struggle for the air that our children breathe in the future, it is also the struggle in the present for the democracies in which they will live. Here's your importance. Last Monday, Brussels activated the European standard of unlimited refugee reception for the first time. The questions fall by their own weight. The first is: ah!, was there an unlimited standard of refugee reception? Yes, there was. The second is: why now? Why? Why, after so many migrations and so much misery and so many wars, why are so many refugees now being received unlimitedly? What's the difference between a dead man in the Mediterranean and a dead man in the streets of Kiev? The answer is extremely cruel: because they are now blond and with blue eyes. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] That's right; that's right. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no life worth more than another; there is no life worth more than another. Refugees from Ukraine flee the same as Afghan, Palestinian, Kurdish, Syrian, Colombian, Yemeni, Nigerian, Honduran, Ethiopian or Congolese refugees. Same thing. [[Applauds]] Mr President, now that it has been shown that there is a rule that allows this, we also ask you to face up to the European Union in favour of the unlimited reception of all those refugees regardless of their origin, nationality, sexual status or ethnicity. I ended up with two comments and a thank you. The first comment I think is paradigmatic, ladies and gentlemen: we live in a world in which Russia is expelled from a football world. All right, any pressure measures are fine with me. Of a football world cup held in Qatar; in Qatar, a paradigm of human rights! This is the world we live in. The second comment: my colleague and president, Oriol Junqueras, said the other day that the only analogy that could be made between Ukraine and Catalonia is to highlight the word, democracy, dialogue and diplomacy; it is the only comparative one. I say it as an independentist, as a Catalan and almost as a citizen. Any other comparison, any other analogy, is indecent; indecent. I want to make it clear: indecent, and maybe I'm getting ahead of some speech. Indecent. [[Applauds]] And thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we put on television every day and we see journalists, correspondents, explaining what is happening in Ukraine, and it seems normal to us. It's not normal; it's not normal. There are journalists who are playing their lives for informing us. Today - let me bar home - I am very proud of my country's public television. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u15	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u16	Thank you, President. You say, Mr Sánchez, that conflicts should be resolved with diplomacy and dialogue, and we absolutely agree, but we all know that if the dialogue in this case was up to you, they were all still waiting for me at the table. And look also at the autonomous communities to redouble their efforts in the adoption of social measures. Well, that's what we've done and we always do in Catalonia, but it turns out that every time we adopt social measures in Catalonia, you turn to the Constitutional Court and you kill them. It would be grateful, then, for you to clarify yourself in. The advance of authoritarianism is a fact and in some territories of the world it is attempted to fight more than in others. Of course, Spain is not an example of these territories that are trying to combat it. But Europe in general has not faced this problem in a decisive and coordinated manner. Peace and freedom must be defended and done decisively and from every country, but also from Europe, from NATO and from the international institutions we have at our disposal, because, although the international institutions we have are not of everyone's liking, they are the ones we have now, they are the ones we have today to defend our ideas and our values and - I am sorry - it is necessary to remember that they are ideas and values that the Kingdom of Spain has been trampling on, because today there is a lot of cynicism planned here. And I close my parentheses. One of the main goals we should have is not to give the story to the imperialist tyrants - to the Putins, to the Trumps, to the VOXs - and today we have had a little tastet. People must be made clear, people must be explained what is clear and there are wars in the 21st century. No war, wars. We do not want any, but there is and there is authoritarianism of the twenty-first century and fascism in the twenty-first century and, yes, the independence of countries in the twenty-first century must be defended. What happens precisely in Ukraine shows us some of the consequences of all this that exists in the world, but it also shows us a raw reality and is that proclaiming no to war without anything else behind is just as doing absolutely nothing. And politicians are here to make decisions, to solve problems, to get wet and not to get out of everything at complicated times and make proclamations from the comfort zone. A country, avui, must have its own national security, and Europe must also have its own and organize and reorganise itself at all levels in order to cope with a reality for which it has not been sufficiently prepared. And some questions that I am now asking must also be answered. Who is Europe's political interlocutor with Putin and the United States? Because the European Union itself has not proved to be a valid or respected interlocutor. What about NATO? Perhaps you have been more concerned about expanding than about updating and building alliances? Are you going to make the West self-critical of why you have come to this current situation? Have international institutions been able to consolidate themselves to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century? I will give an example, among many examples, which I think illustrates these reflections: the Suwalki Corridor. This corridor has long been of concern to NATO, but has not been able to predict or plan, and we are not clear whether, if the implementation of Article 5 of the Washington Treaty is necessary, it will deter Russia. NATO should have planned in a more coordinated and preventive manner. The European Union and NATO therefore have to put on their batteries and this is also a reality. Facing these realities implies making decisions and some decisions are unpopular, because we are talking about the world order, bigger words for some, but a reality that is thrown at us. With less Borrell and more Von Der Leyen, surely, we will also go a little better. Peace is not only proclaimed; pau i llibertat is defence, and the defence of peace and freedom depends on whether or not we face what threatens them. I'm done, and they're gonna apologize to me because we're talking about defending peace and freedom. I'm done, President. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Benvolgut, Matiuschenko, all solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u18	Thank you, President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the highest representative of the Embassy of Ukraine in Spain and the representative of the Government, first of all, our absolute solidarity with all the people of Ukraine and also with all the people of Russia who do not agree with Putin's policies. Mr President, I said this last week from this rostrum: your Government has all our support, all the support of the Democratic Party, to take all the necessary measures, within the framework of the European Union, within the framework of NATO, to combat the invasion of Russia, the invasion of Ukraine by Russia and Putin. These measures are necessary, they are essential. They also have our support for the sending of arms, because it is not about being against war and for peace - which we are against war and for peace - but about giving elements of defence to the attacked peoples. You have today made two great announcements: one, that of the shipment of arms, which we share, and another that seems to us to be much more relevant, which is the national plan to combat the effects of this conflict. And you've been honest from this rostrum warning all our fellow citizens that this is going to have a cost, and it's going to be an important cost, a cost we have to bear. You are going to have to take action, and you have derailed here a few axes with which we agree. We share that this national plan has to be participatory, and we will have to say not only to the parliamentary groups, but to the social actors and to so many other social entities what concerns them. You have made a first call, a first axis, an income pact, and you were calling on the unions and the employers to respond to this request, a request that you made to the Banco de España also a few days ago and that I myself humbly also made, and you will have us in this, as in other measures. We also ask the Government to contribute and make its contribution. And with an inflation of 7.4% already prior to the conflict, or practically prior to the conflict, I think you should consider deflating the IRPF tariff, surely that will give you more moral authority to ask for other sacrifices. I have missed a more concrete one in its main thrusts of the economic plan - and I highly value it. This is going to have an important impact on our entire economy and on large companies, but it is going to have an impact, even if we don't believe it, on small and medium-sized enterprises. It has announced some measures, but we understand that they will be insufficient. We therefore make ourselves available to you to facilitate our contributions. We have also missed an important element in the economic aspect, and this is going to have an impact on public finances, without a doubt, on the public finances of the general government as a whole and of the autonomous communities and the municipalities. Furthermore, we believe that action should be taken, and I believe that the Government, in circumstances such as the present, should re-establish its economic forecasts, and I do not want to say that it should make a major budgetary change, but it should adapt the budget to the present circumstances. You will also have us at your disposal for this task. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin, Mr Abascal is not here, but I tell him calmly, given the gravity of the moment. Look at you, gentlemen of VOX, neither with all the exaggerations nor with all the scarecrows will you be able to make the Spanish citizens forget that Mr Putin is one of yours. Mr. Putin is from the hate international, the Bolsonaros, the Trumps and the Le Pens, who ate a million pamphlets yesterday because he had pictures of Putin. [[applause]] Mr. Putin is yours. I begin this intervention by expressing our strongest condemnation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and our full solidarity with the victims. Wars are always decided by the powerful and always healed by the humble, always healed by the peoples. Therefore, go ahead with our solidarity with the nearly 6,000 Russian citizens arrested for protesting against the invasion and protesting against the war. That is a fraternal spirit in which we recognize each other. The path for us is the coordinated and autonomous action of the European Union, as in the economic sanctions of these days, which are already taking effect. And we do not want to forget that the immediate goal is to stop an invasion, not to end in a major war; it is to act resolutely and decisively, but with a cold head, having in mind a horizon, a lasting and stable peace sustained in international legality and respect for the self-determination of peoples. That is the only realism and not the militaristic spirals. We, Mr President, want to deal with two issues which seem particularly relevant to us but which have been dealt with too soon. Firstly, the question of refugees. Running away from war is understandable, it is what everyone would do, but it is also a right recognized in international law and that is why we want Spain to lead in Europe the opening of safe roads for those displaced from war and the reception of refugees. And we want him to do it permanently, not until the cameras are turned off, but until the pain is over. Europe must always live up to it, with Ukraine and with all the displaced victims of the war. When we say this, the racists always tell us: Ah!, very simple, for then take them you and put them in your house. That is exactly what we are saying: our common house is called Spain and we want them to come to Spain safely and that the institutions can take care of them, as happened to us when we need it in other host countries. And here lies a fundamental and drastic difference between democrats and reactionaries. For us there are no first-rate refugees and second-rate refugees; we are against war, all wars; we are next to the suffering peoples, all the suffering peoples, and we are next to the refugees who are displaced out of their homes, all of them, without asking what their hair color is, what their eyes color is or what their skin color is. The second issue is the energy transition. We have often come to this rostrum and have called for greater ambition in the ecological transition and in the change of energy matrix, and we have been told that this was a cultural war and that it was a symbolic concern without importance in everyday life. It is now revealed that this has not only to do with the preservation of the planet, but also has to do with the sovereignty of Europe, with our security and with our freedom. Russia invades Ukraine basically because it can, and can, because we have an extreme dependence on Russian gas and oil, direct or indirect. That means that Europe is not going to have political sovereignty and security until it has energy sovereignty, and that is why a strong commitment to clean energy is needed, and that for us is to review the objectives of reducing emissions and electrification. Spain must already be a power in the production of clean energies, because in the future - and that future has already arrived - we will have to choose between gas wars or the peace of renewables. You have already announced measures for the protection of the most vulnerable, but in this case we want to stress that these measures have unfortunately remained very short. Wars are paid for by the peoples, but they make a few immensely rich. This war cannot be paid for by citizens who have not decided and have not caused it, so measures are essential to ensure that the war and the energy crisis do not affect the most vulnerable households. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I also have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nothing, I insist, nothing can justify a war, an armed invasion, a savage aggression on a country or the bloodshed of innocent blood. Nothing, I insist, nothing, not in Ukraine, not in Palestine, not in Yemen, not in Syria, not in Sahara, not in Kurdistan. We may feel comforted with ourselves, but our sincere cry of no war will not deter the monster, probably will not help the people of Ukraine alone, just keep us in our comfort zone. I borrow the words of my countryman Joaquim Bosch - I wish there were more magistrates like him -: self-defence armed against an attack is completely valid, non-violent forms of resistance are legitimate, but so are the answers that use force defensively. I said it yesterday and I keep it today: it is not easy to make a decision. I have doubts, many doubts. I am radically against war, free deaths and weapons, which always, always, slaughter them. But I have family and I stand in the place of those parents and grandparents who have left their family on the Polish border to save her from the barbarity of savage and unwarranted aggression. I am sure it will help the institutional declaration of this Congress if we all sign it, but it will help more a coordinated, firm economic blockade, immobilization, isolation and incommunicado on all fronts, on all, and perhaps - and I have many doubts - a weapon to defend itself. As it would have helped the Republic in 1936, and not a barren neutrality that condemned it to defeat and instituted a forty-year dictatorship. If for anything this war has served us to realize the need to preserve this imperfect space of freedom, democracy and progress called Europe. Mr President, let us make Europe stronger, so that all our answers, all of them, are forceful, unique, joint and coordinated. Europe is playing its future. Democracy, human rights, are playing their future. That is why I ask you to be supportive of the refugees, and I remember those Madrid children who came to Valencia in the war, or those children who went to Odessa, Ukraine, in the war to flee the war. Let us fight for the creation of anything, of a contingency fund that will help the productive sectors concerned, the workers, the companies and that there will be social aid for energy prices. Today is a good time to change the pricing system. The corporal. I do not want to end without expressing my gratitude and solidarity with the thousands of Russian citizens who are demonstrating on the street and who are imprisoned for their rejection of this infamous war. People like them and how they make this a world worth living in. Posdata: This country does not deserve the right that we have seen here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u23	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Not to war we said from this rostrum on the same day that the Russian army crossed the border with Ukraine, and not to war, loud and clear, we say today. The BNG condemns Russian military intervention in Ukraine and demands that fighting be stopped and troops be withdrawn from its borders. At the same time, we defend Ukraine's sovereignty and express our solidarity with the Ukrainian people, who in recent years have suffered a coup d'état, political violence, the persecution of dissent, the armed confrontation, the bombings in the Dombas, and, now, the dramatic human, social and economic consequences of the war launched by Russia. We regret the loss of life and the suffering that all this causes. Today we listen here to political forces reject that war. Also those that supported and even those that involve the Spanish state in wars such as Iraq, Libya or Afghanistan, which only respond to the economic and geostrategic interests of US imperialism; interests always behind international conflicts. On the other hand, the BNG consistently maintains its pacifist, diplomatic and peaceful position in resolving disputes between States. We therefore criticise from the outset the bellicose escalation of NATO, an aggressive military organization serving the interests that are not those of the peoples of Europe and that is meaningless, from a perspective of peace and good relations between States. What NATO must do is not generate more tension by strengthening and expanding towards the East, but simply dissolve and disappear. That is why we also call on the Spanish Government to stand in favour of the descalation, to begin by withdrawing the military troops sent to the area and to renounce, from active neutrality, to throw more fire into a conflict which, if it continues to scale, can have unpredictable consequences. The President of the Government has just announced that they are sending defensive weapons to Ukraine, obviating the ban on providing war material to countries in conflict. We find it irresponsible and a sad irony that EUR 450 million of the so-called European Peace Fund should be used to fuel a war, and that a European Union subordinated to NATO should begin to take on a contentious role in it, as Josep Borrell explicitly announced. Shame that censorship is applied and freedom of information is restricted. We know that it is absolutely false the old Latin aphorism if vis pacem, for bellum, because, in reality, prepares the war who wants the war; who wants peace works for it. That is why the BNG insists on calling for negotiation within the framework of the UN and OSCE, the immediate withdrawal of all Russian forces from Ukraine and respect for its sovereignty, the observance by Ukraine of its international commitments, starting with the return to the Minsk Protocol, respect for the will of the peoples of the Donetsk and Lugansk Republic, and creating a climate of stability and security throughout the region. The corporal. We know that the solution to this conflict is not easy, but also that it can only start from a beginning, if vis pacem, for pacem. For peace, not war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u26	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Welcome, Mr. Matiuschenko. Nice to see you again in the palace of national sovereignty. Mr President, exactly a week ago we lived in a world and today we live in another world. The war has crushed our sense of security and our idea of freedom. And, today, in our Parliament, we must find solutions for a flagrant violation of international legality, for the violation of the sovereignty of a democratic country and for the massacre of an entire people. Today the Spaniards look at us; yes, today the Spaniards look at us, today they are interested in what we are dealing with here; they ask us to respond urgently and respond to this drama. And why? Why do we detect anguish and fear in our friends and family when Ukraine is more than three thousand kilometers away? Because it is far geographically, but it is very close to us; because the Ukrainians have caught the word solidarity in the hearts of the Spaniards; because we see on television how life projects collapse and are replaced by socavons, dust and ashes; because we see the children running, fleeing from the bombings and sounding the sirens, and it seems to us that they are our children; because we see the refugees on the border with Poland fleeing in cars, in monovolumes, and it seems that they are our family; because we see the orphanages and hospitals bombed, and it could be Spain. It hurts us and it is good that it hurts us, it must hurt us because in this way we will force ourselves to find solutions and protect Western democracy. Last Wednesday, Kiev workers left work and went out for a beer at a bar. Today they are making Molotov cocktails to defend their freedom. It's them today, tomorrow we can be us. President Zelenski yesterday, before the European Parliament, said that we were facing an existential threat from Europe we know, a threat to what we are, a threat to our way of life. King Philip VI also said: It is a threat to Europe and to the world order. The President of the European Commission said: Ukrainian citizens belong to us, they are our compatriots. If these heroes and braves who are fighting for freedom and democracy do not deserve to be in the European Union, who deserves to be in the European Union? Shocking is human, yes; but, besides, these images have to remove our consciousness, they have to make us decide firmly that the struggle of Ukraine is our struggle. They defend their homeland, their family, their homes, our values and our principles, the European values we have defended with pride, freedom and equality against nationalist totalitarianism. The values of equality, freedom, union, solidarity, which have been the antidote against the totalitarianisms of the first part of the twentieth century and by which the European Union was born; liberal democracy, democracy that does not exclude anyone. That must be the best Europe, that of liberal democracy. Why is it called liberal democracy? Because liberals help build that democracy that remains today as a symbol of advanced Western countries. That's why it's called liberal democracy, that's why the hero Zelenski has called for the inclusion of his party in ALDE, which is the party of European liberals. President Zelenski knows what it's like to fight for freedom. He is a Jew, he knows Europe, he is a grandson of a Holocaust victim, he knows that freedom is not free, that can't be assumed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u28	That's why you have to fight her, even to give her life. That's why they're heroes. Let us not speak today in our political language, let us make things clear. Behind that aggression of Putin to Ukraine there is a criminal ideology, a nationalist and totalitarian ideology that wants to impose its horror. We have always defended, in the face of nationalism, consensus and agreement; in the face of tyranny, the rule of law, which guarantees equality in the face of differences in ethnicity, religion, origin, language or economic or social status. We have always defended the rule of law. Look at how nationalists always try to end the rule of law and the rule of law by disobeying the law. Nationalism has gentiles, but has no surnames; it always puts the land before the person. Mitterrand, a great socialist, said: Nationalism is war. [[The Lord]] We've been called agrarians, we've been called tremandists for denouncing nationalism. Liberals know what it costs to build Europe, what it costs democracy, what it costs to sacrifice blood, sweat and tears; that liberal democracy that is called this because it admits the different, because it respects differences, because it wants consensus, because it wants pluralism, because it wants the rule of law in the face of war, which is authoritarianism, tyranny and chaos. In front of Putin, in front of nationalism, the rule of law. Faced with the law of the forest of Putin, the just and equal law; these values are contained in the founding treaties of the European Union, in the constitutions of our environment and in our own Constitution in its first articles: freedom, justice, equality, political pluralism, unity and solidarity. That is why it is normal that since last Thursday - the first day - the voice of the Spanish liberals was heard loud, clear and clear alongside the people of Ukraine, because we do not have two rods to measure, because we condemn all dictatorships, be they from the left, be they from the right. Today I see uncomfortable parliamentary groups here, who do not know very well where to place themselves in the photo. Today I also hear things here that are unbelievable, such as when I heard Mr Junqueras compare Putin to Spain; Putin, who helped Catalan independence separatism while we demand the unity of our country. But not only do they hide, but not only do the nationalists keep quiet here today. No, no, He also hides Mr.Abascal, who seems to have forgotten those tweets in which he showed desire, respect and admiration for Putin. It is believed that by deleting the tweets we forget our memory. When he brought Spain to populist international, Le Pen, Orbán... He's a friend of Bolsonaro's, he's a friend of all Putin's friends! But it's just that, look, in the Courts of Aragon, by VOX there was no institutional statement and VOX from Ceuta says he's next to Putin. Apologize, Mr. Abascal. A lot of faces are going to fall in here today. Today we will see here the real face of each one attacking the European Union. What would be of us today without the European Union and without NATO? What would it be without that that since VOX are called the globalist elites, the same multicultural? Spain alone before the world in that autarchic regime absolutely impossible. And isn't it curious that both Maduro and Bolsonaro are in favor of Putin? What did Le Pen and that We can, yesterday in the European Parliament, vote against the sanctions on Russia? Look, the problem, Mr President - with all due respect I say - is called Podemos, because it is in the Government of Spain, because it causes the Government to take decisions after other countries take them without taking the lead we have in the European Union, it causes you to drag your feet when making decisions that are right. And I am glad that you have rectified with regard to the sending of arms to the Ukrainian people, because we must move from the word to the facts, because we offer loyalty to them and demand strength and determination, because our brothers are dying and before that they are not worth sectarianisms or dogmas, they are not worth anti-NATO demonstrations or they are not worth statements like those I have heard: the people of Ukraine have the right to defend themselves, but without weapons. With hugs? But what a world you live in, gentlemen of Podemos! What you are really asking for is the surrender of the Ukrainian people to tyranny, and there cannot be the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] No lukewarmness can be admitted in the defense of liberal democracy, and whoever is lukewarm will be Putin's crutches. Today I carry here the flag of Ukraine, the yellow of the wheat fields below the blue of the sky of freedom; a heroic people, a dignified people, a humble people. [[pointing to the flap of your jacket]] And with this people in front, Lords of Podemos, you cannot be submissive with tyranny and try to be strong with the weak. So please, Mr Sánchez, Mr President, we must raise the sanctions, we must bring humanitarian aid, we must bring military aid, we must carry everything we are asked to do. With Ukraine, with everything we have. Mr Sánchez, the defense of freedom is not subcontracted, it has to be Spain that leads it, and if the Lords of Podemos are angry, they are angry. Leave them! Let's go to the government! Finish this legislature as we told you on the first day, with 221 seats; with the lords of the People's Party, with Citizens, with a majority of at least 221 seats. [[Rumors]] The time comes to believe in history with capitals, and both VOX and Podemos are on the wrong side. The lords of the People's Party, giving wings to VOX; the lords of the Socialist Party, giving wings to Podemos, and in the end without taking care of the important, without taking care of the history that has touched us. You are the Government of Spain, you are the Government of an advanced, free European nation with a solidarity citizenship. They honor the flag of Spain and the flag of Europe. What is the matter, that Germany and Portugal are less left-wing for taking a determined stand in defence of the Ukrainian people? Is the defence budget up to 2% of the gross domestic product budget less left-handed? The question is that Chancellor Scholz does not have Podemos in the government, he has his hands free because he has European liberals in the government. I ask you: Really, if you had guessed that you would have to rule Spain in the midst of a pandemic and a war, would you have closed a government with Podemos supported by the nationalists? Who has helped you in the difficult times of this legislature? Who has supported Spain? The opposition, while letting him hang his partner. We can bring nothing to Spain; it remains. They're Putin's five-year-olds, trying to undermine democracy. We saw it yesterday in the European Parliament when Podemos, United Left or Bildu vote against Ukraine's candidacy for the European Union, when they refuse to increase sanctions to Russia, when they refuse to send weapons to protect the population, when they try to whitewash Putin's propaganda. Let us, apart from the populism of the Government, not just the leadership of my country but the populists who do not believe in democracy and, as I have told you so many times, let us govern Spain as we govern in Europe: Social Democrats, Conservatives and Liberals. We told him on the first day, count on the support, which now seems to be offered by the spokesman of the People's Party; let's see if they're serious, let's see if they're serious thinking about Spain. If you throw the populists out of the government, you'll have my hand stretched out again. [[Rumors]] We need the alliance for Europe, which is the alliance for Spain, which is the alliance for democracy. I conclude by addressing those Spaniards who today live in anguish and are afraid. We're a great nation. This has already happened in Europe. We have always won those who defend freedom. We have created a Europe of well-being, peace and solidarity. Will there be sacrifices? Yes, there will be blood, sweat and tears, but it will be worth it because we will fight for our values, we will fight for our ideas. President Zelenski said yesterday: We are strong, we are Ukrainians; we have a great desire: to see our children alive; our cause is just. Don't look elsewhere, they're also our children, it's also our cause, it's a just cause. Today I am proud to be European and liberal, so live freedom and live Ukraine! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u29	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, President, last February 23rd I pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that world geopolitics was going to change definitively and that we had to prepare ourselves. But I must tell you that I am impressed by the speed at which you are doing it. We are witnessing, within just a week, an unexpected paradigm shift, both in global relations and in the European internal dimension. The concrete evolution of this conflict will pierce as far as the concrete changes that we will see in the future will come, but in any case, we will soon find ourselves facing a world different from that we knew at the beginning of this year. Did we Europeans need to feel so threatened to discover that a future with a disunited Europe only led us to the absence of a future, to be absolutely irrelevant, to an unstoppable decline? On 13 February we were still witnessing the usual European dissensions: Scholz frightened by the gas supply and the future of Nord Stream 2, as well as Draghi, who spoke directly to Putin. Each on its own side, with the wrong feeling that, once again, Moscow was not going to take the step, that the intelligence of the United States was exaggerating; each country defending its interests. I am aft for Putin, all about the script that has been in charge of fuelling over the last decade, feeding personal economic interests of European leaders, interfering through the Internet in the electoral propaganda of democratic countries, sowing the weeds of division, cultivating and financing the Trojan horse of authoritarianism. Many countries saw him as a reference. Le Pen, Orbán Salvini... The results of the meeting of all the ultra-rightist leaders in Madrid convened by VOX have not yet been turned off in memory. We are witnessing historic and unexpected events, a whole paradigm shift. Whoever doesn't see it like that has blindness. Because the Russian-Ukrainian conflict transcends military fighting between the two. We are talking about our security, an increasingly aggressive Russia seeking a new world order expanding in Syria, Libya, the Central African Republic, Chad, Mali, defending an authoritarian model that has as its reflection and allied to China. We are deciding whether to remain silent before a nuclear power that explicitly threatens to use that power and reach the final consequences - as Putin said - something we would never have thought would happen. A political leader who seeks to base his power and boldness on the fear he inflicts on us. He has raised the stake and is willing to wage a large-scale war. That is a new reality that the Western world must face. Great has to be the threat for Germany to abandon its policy of rejection of the sending of war material, political from the demilitarization and malaise of the Second World War. Huge must be the threat for Switzerland to abandon its two hundred years of neutrality. Putin lied; he and only he is responsible for what is happening. He mobilized his troops along the extensive border with Ukraine, even in Belarus, complaining about Western hysterism talking about a possible attack. He announced that he was withdrawing troops and that it was not true. He promised President Macron not to attack civilian targets and is doing so, and according to several reports, he is using bombs, thermobarics or vacuum. Putin's speech on Monday, February 21st was clear. It is not NATO, it is that Ukraine is, according to him, a part of Russia, eternal Russia, be it this tsarist, Stalinist or poachist. And to think that some still think that defending Putin continues to defend the USSR and its ideology, just because it confronts NATO. A little communist... On 23 February, the day before the invasion, some in this Parliament, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, continued to talk, as if nothing were happening, about the need to create a demilitarized mattress between Russia and the European Union. Can you really believe that the Baltic republics or Poland are going to give up NATO membership? No one forced them to integrate into it, unlike what happened with the Warsaw Pact. They did it because they knew - they know - that it is the only way to prevent Russia from swallowing them again. With what legitimacy can we, who defend the self-determination of peoples, ask the Baltics or Poles to disarm knowing their history? Mattress and disarmament. Please, if Putin is moving the nuclear warheads to Belarus! Read the message of the Lithuanian left of 27 February: Dear comrades, NATO and the EU are now the only hope for a country like Lithuania. Some also repeat Putin's encouraged canteen that Ukrainians are Nazis and send over and over again the same three pictures of the infamous Azov battalion. But none of these extremist groups has ever managed to have a representative in the Ukrainian Parliament and less in the Executive. Whether they want it or not, with its flaws, the Ukrainian government is a democratic government and its president, Zelenski, in addition to having Jewish origin, was the dove who came forward seeking an agreement for Donbas against the Poroshenko hawk. Of course there are some Nazis in Ukraine, as everywhere! Hence to deduce that the Government and the Ukrainian people are Nazis there is an unacceptable leap. Because in this Parliament there are agents who defend the Franco dictatorship, it cannot be deduced that Spain is a totalitarian and fascist state, nor that because there are those who have defended the totalitarian and murderous action of ETA, the Basques are all terrorists. And yet, it must be made clear, there has been a genocide in the past eight years in the Dombas perpetrated by Ukraine. Obviously, there have been clashes and casualties on both sides, but it is impossible that there has been a hidden genocide, with the OSCE on the ground, with numerous observers from 2015 until yesterday, when it withdrew. What Russia should be asked is how the former territories of the USSR where democracy has arrived want to get as far away as possible from Russia and reject any kind of association with it. One should ask why it is so unattractive and whether fear should be in the twenty-first century what binds people. You should also ask China. And no, no, this is not going to or should not go, in my opinion, to the defense of the inalienable borders of a country. It goes from respect for the will of the people, because we are in the twenty-first century and it is only in this way that conflicts can be resolved. Ukraine held an independence referendum in 1991 and support for it was overwhelming: it voted 92% of the population and 82% in favour of independence, even in Donbas, where 76% voted in favour. And, if I'm in a hurry, in Crimea, where he did 55%. I do not know if the opinion of the inhabitants of Donbass today is the same, but what I am sure is that no one should decide but them; both the more than a million inhabitants who fled as internal refugees to other places in Ukraine and those who stayed. That's what Minsk could have been for. But no one has asked them, nor has there been any interest in doing so. It is very simple, but recurrent, the idea that in Ukraine Russian speakers are people who directly support Russia. Those who say this have no idea what things are like in those nations that have suffered impositions by stronger ones, who have seen how their language was excluded from school or administration and expelled from the religious realms with the excuse of being a populous and invalid for modern life. That happened with the Ukrainian until he woke up with Shevchenko in the 19th century, and it also happened with the Basque. I know many Basques who don't speak Basque but are convinced independenceists; I also know Basques with eight surnames and who master the Spanish language. The lives of the subjugated, minority nations are complex. The history of Ukraine from the Rus of Kiev is full of episodes in which its territories were under Mongolian, Tatar, Lithuanian, Polish or Russian rule and more or less in their present dimensions had a brief four-year period of independence as the Ukrainian People's Republic before being absorbed by the USSR. And, of course, it has been independent for the past thirty years, but that is not the relevant thing to defend its right to remain independent; the relevant thing is the present will of the people. Putin will be able to deny the Ukrainian people that it is a nation, but he will never be able to dictate to them how they feel, nor will anyone else dictate it to the Basques. That 'you're Russian because I say so' sounds very familiar to me. Of course, the Ukrainian people, with the defense of their territory, have responded loud and clear, expressing their national sentiment. I confess that in the face of European doubts I thought they would be left alone; that, as Rousseau told the Poles in the 18th century, they would swallow them and all they could do was make sure they didn't lead them. But faith is that they are resisting to be devoured. I believe that their efforts in the initial days galvanised the European chancelleries, that those days did not give them a hard time, it must be made clear. I confess that I never thought that economic sanctions were anything but tickles. The level of adoptions is a milestone, it is something never seen; it is a before and after in international relations and the defence of peace. However, we are witnessing another important step and questioned by some sectors: aid to Ukraine with arms. As I understand it, the dilemma is simple. We want to make the 'No to war' a reality, but it does not only serve to desire it very much and to make demonstrations. If Russia stops fighting, there is no war. If Ukraine stops fighting, there will be no more Ukraine. War is always rejectable, but if there is something that justifies in international law the use of force is precisely the defence against real and unprovoked aggression. If we want the Ukrainians to fight for us, we cannot leave them alone, they will have to rely on means. It comes to heart because we live it in our flesh during the Civil War. The maritime blockade imposed by the United Kingdom and France in the Cantabrian by the non-intervention pact prevented the supply of arms to Euskadi and the Republic, while the franchisors received unconditional support from the Axis. Euskadi had to defend himself from the inferior aggression, and the situation was generated by European democracies. We can't fall into the same mistake. One thing is to intervene directly militarily, which I can understand is that it is the last step given the implications and derivatives that it could entail, and another is to leave a country that is repelling aggression and that does so indirectly for us as well. I understand that it is more appropriate to make such provision in a coordinated way from the European Union, rather than from the unilateral decision of a country, but that cannot be an excuse for doing nothing. President, you have rectified your position today and I think it is correct, because only with field hospitals, bandages and bulletproof vests is such aggression not repelled. Putin probably expected this to be, as his spokesmen say, a special operation, something to solve at spark speed while fear paralyzes your opponents. The problem is that if you've thrown a lighthouse on the basis of fear, and even Switzerland is facing you, you've gone from slowing down. In my view, first of all, the EU must be strong in its determination and consistent in its support for Ukraine, without fissure and maintaining the measures taken to the end and strengthening, if possible. Secondly, if the measures result - and let us trust it -, as the saying goes, to the fleeing enemy, silver bridge. If Russia goes backwards, we have to offer a way out; to Russia, which is not the same as saying to Putin. Thirdly, this experience shows that the defence and decision-making structures of the European Union must be strengthened in the field of foreign policy. We have run out of weak Europe, incapable of taking initiatives - or at least I want to think about it -. Just as COVID has shown the need for less dependence on the European Union in the production and research of third countries in the field of health, this crisis must serve us to permanently improve European mechanisms in terms of foreign policy, defence and the economy. In this regard, we also urge you, President, to push for strategic decisions within the EU that can alleviate the supply crisis and the price escalation that this situation is going to entail, beyond the measures that can be taken internally. By the way, it is not because he did not warn us that we were his Government that paying more attention to gas as a transitional element, it has had to be a war that will move its policy in this area. What is not welcome, President, is that you devote between ten and fifteen minutes of your speech to exposing a myriad of measures in a so-called war response plan without time to assess them. Mr President, the common emergency, as you have called it, is faced in common, but, as always, you have done the opposite. It has been launched without consultation with its possible parliamentary support. I am not able at this time to assess the measures it has announced. Mr Bel seems like something, but I am not capable, honestly, of going one after another and, moreover, some do not sound new or related to the conflict. Therefore, we shall see, and I understand that we will discuss it in plenary as well. But here today, it was neither the day nor the subject, and less so with the fifteen minutes of intervention that we have in the parliamentary groups, than you. President, attention must be paid to the flow of war refugees that will occur. Human drama must be an important part of our performance. We welcome the activation of the temporary protection directive. We urge all institutions to cooperate in this task, as the Basque Government is already doing. I'm on my way. With the struggle between democracy and totalitarianism, between the free world and autocracies, between human rights and force, between the will of citizens to decide their future and the imposition of regimes by force, the Basque Nationalist Party will always be on the side of the first: democracy, the free world, human rights and the will of citizens to decide their future. The European Union, the Alliance and its Government have our full support, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u31	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u32	Egun on. Good morning. We want our first words to be for the Ukrainian civilian population, who are suffering the most terrible consequences of this war. To all of them, to those who continue in Ukraine and to those who take hard steps to get out of the country all our solidarity at these hard times, solidarity which I would also like to convey to the Minister Counsellor of the Embassy of Ukraine, present here, because, if there is something certain in a war - also in this one - it is that who suffers most, who will pay the greatest consequences will be the civilian population, the social and working majority, who is involved in a war that has not sought, but who will suffer it. This war - one more -, initiated on the basis of political, geostrategic, economic or financial interests, is a war based on this, on decisions taken by power against the rights and interests of peoples and their people. History has taught us this over and over again. We are the nation of the bombing of Gernika, we know the devastating effects of war and the pain caused by violent conflicts and we also know the importance of making all the efforts necessary for peace through dialogue and diplomacy as instruments. We know that this is not an easy task and that is why we want to be clear. We reject and denounce the serious attack on Ukraine perpetrated by the Russian Army under Putin's orders. The attack on Ukraine amounts to a violation of international law and violates the human rights of its people. We consider this attack unjustifiable and urge Russia, in line with the UN's call, to put an end to this military action and to withdraw its military forces from Ukrainian territory immediately. We say it clearly and forcefully. As I said, we know that dialogue and diplomacy is not a simple path, it requires temperance, effort, a long look and a firm will to achieve results; moreover, they are based on the maintenance of peace and coexistence among peoples. It is difficult, yes, but not impossible, and that is why we welcome the open diplomatic effort between Ukrainian and Russian government leaders to find a way out of the conflict. Pushing and supporting distension through diplomacy must be the way. This is what we would like to see prevail in the position of the European Union and the Government of this State, to support and enable a dialogue, diplomatic and peaceful solution within the framework of the Charter of the United Nations and the Minsk Agreements, using the mechanisms of the UN and OSCE. To do everything necessary to propitiate this scenario, this is what we expect of your Government, Mr Sánchez. I said that we are the nation of Gernika, but we are also the nation of no to NATO. The Basques and Basques voted democratically and mostly not for the integration of the Spanish state into NATO. We said no because maintaining peace, security and stability does not mean arming larger armies, with greater scope, with greater destructive capacity and increasingly concentrated, because this divides the world, confronts it and feeds the expansionist striving of the great powers. Continuing along this path will only lead us to generate more tension, more danger and more confrontation against each other. In this war, too, the interests of the world powers are counterposed by the hegemonic control of the world, and Europe, like Ukraine, has become the board of play for its interests, because at the end of the day this is not the war of Ukraine, nor is it the war of Europe, but both Ukrainians and Europeans, we will end up paying the human and economic consequences of the confrontation between these great world powers. We therefore call for Europe to regain the political and security autonomy that it should never have lost, so that we do not follow other powers and treat as our own interests that are alien to us. Before anyone uses banal arguments to demonize or distort our position, I will tell you that pointing out the interests of the world powers does not justify the Russian attack or support Putin or turn your back on Ukraine and its people. The invasion of Ukraine can be strongly rejected without having to legitimize or support or strengthen NATO, because we will not. Rejecting war, expansionism, authoritarianism and militarization today must mean rejecting not only the war in Ukraine, but also opening our eyes to wars that, even if they affect us less, deserve a strong denunciation; it must mean advocating the disarmament and demilitarization of the great weapons and nuclear powers as a guarantee for the maintenance of peace. Putin has made decisions that endanger hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian lives and the destabilisation of Europe as a whole. There is no doubt, but we believe that the answer cannot be simply to take action to fuel the conflict and that little will help to bring about a negotiated exit from it. That is why we are concerned about the decisions and positions that the European Union is taking and which you, Mr Sánchez, are supporting and strengthening; decisions that seem to be aimed at increasing tension rather than seeking a way out; decisions only at the punitive level that do not help to find a solution that removes the risk of resurgence towards a more violent and extensive war. That is why we do not endorse the shipment of weapons that the European Union has announced by spending EUR 450 million from the European Peace Fund. That Europe should enter, directly and actively, into this war could lead to a leap in it, leading to an open war scenario that no one will benefit. This option, that of an open war between nuclear forces is not an option, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that we will all agree on this, also this government. That is why we consider it a mistake, and we cannot support, the announcement that you have made today of sending offensive weapons. We are concerned about your decision, Mr Sánchez, that this Government confirms the option to participate actively and directly in this war. We hope that you have well appreciated the implications that this may entail. We are facing a scenario that will lead to a humanitarian crisis, in addition to an energy and economic crisis, which will pay for Ukrainian, European and also Russian citizens. The first is already occurring: more than 140 dead civilians, hundreds of wounded and more than half a million displaced in Ukraine according to the UN in seven days of conflict, not to mention the thousands who died in the eight-year conflict affecting Donbas. Ukraine has been suffering for years and, regrettably, this suffering will increase if the talks we hope will not prosper again in the coming days. This war, like all, is generating thousands and thousands of displaced people to European states, they are also seeking refuge in it. That is why we remind you and ask you, Mr Sánchez, to comply with the obligations to accept asylum applications and to maintain a reception policy for all those who come to this State fleeing from war, because, for the first time, the European Union will apply the temporary protection directive for all displaced persons from Member States fleeing from war in Ukraine. It is very good news and we hope that it will be fulfilled in its entirety. I hope, Mr Sánchez, that this directive would also have been applied to the reception of people, of human beings who, like Ukrainians, are fleeing other conflicts in other countries. We hope that, following this decision, something will be learned and the Member States of the European Union will abandon the discrimination, racism and xenophobia that have prevailed in their migration policies for decades. [[Applauds]] Let it end with the classification of first and second-class people, let Europe finally be a host country for those who need it. Euskal Herria will continue to be, we will continue to be a host country for Ukrainians and Ukrainians, with whom special ties have been with us since the Basque and Basque houses began to welcome children from Chernobyl every summer. And we will also be with all those who seek a better future away from the problems and conflicts of their countries. Beti jango you will die etorri ongi. The second crisis, economic and energy, will affect us all, the populations of Ukraine, Europe and Russia. Another blow to the populations of Ukraine, Europe and Russia, another blow to the already weak world economic situation following the pandemic; a blow resulting from the economic sanctions applied to Russia that will impact their population and the countermeasures that will impact ours. It is foreseeable - as the European institutions assume - that the most damaged by these sanctions will not be the Russian presidents and oligarchs, but will be their population and working class, just like ours. And yes, here too we would have liked internationalism and class solidarity to have been the courage to maintain and strengthen. Unfortunately, it has not been so. The impoverishment of Ukraine, Europe and Russia will be the result of these sanctions, as the European Union itself is already warning. Europe, which has led diplomatic attempts to prevent this war from escalating Russia and the United States, will also pay a very expensive price. Some - very few - will benefit from this war, while most will suffer, we will suffer the consequences of it, as you yourself have acknowledged. Mr. Sanchez, I want to be clear with you. You can count on us to reject the Russian attack on Ukraine, without any cracks. To encourage all those actions aimed at strengthening diplomacy, reducing the tension of the conflict to promote peace and providing all possible humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian population and all the victims that this war is leaving and will leave, we have our support. But you will not have it for actions that involve the escalation of the conflict, for decisions that increase tension and create new risks. Not for this, because, by sharing the most absolute rejection of Putin's military aggression on Ukraine and its people, we cannot support measures that would open the door to an open war of unknown dimensions. It will not count on our support to send lethal weapons or to censor media, violating freedom of expression and the press as an authoritarian regime. This is not what we expect from these European institutions and from a government like yours, which claims to defend the values of democracy and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, as a journalist I am, I do not want to end this intervention without recognizing and thanking the work of the informants, of all, of the work of the great information professionals who are today in the middle of the war, judging their own integrity in order to provide citizens with first-hand information about what is happening there. It's never easy to count and document a conflict, I know. That is why my appreciation and admiration to those who try to show us all the points of view, all the visions and sources in a truthful and contrasted way, because an informed society, a society with a critical capacity that flees from the one thought, always, will always be a more free society. A work that the journalist Pablo González has been doing for a long time, and which now Poland with his arrest has prevented him from continuing under unfounded and implausible accusations while performing his informative work on the war in Ukraine. [[applause]] That is why we demand your immediate release from Poland and we ask you, Mr Sánchez, to intercede and do everything possible and impossible for your release so that you can continue your well-known work. It ended with two appeals, to the European Union and to this Government. The first is to ensure that they take all necessary measures and make every effort to advance the diplomatic route in the face of punishment. It is not time to increase the tension, it is time to reduce it. And the second call is for President Putin: it is not the citizens of Kiev who must leave their city, it is their army who must abandon their attack and siege to it. Like my first words, the last are also for the Ukrainian people. Our solidarity and support for Ukrainian citizenship, which is now being attacked in its own country. Gerrarik ez, ez Ukrainian ez inon. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u33	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now in its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u34	Thank you, President. Mr President, first of all, we want to position ourselves in the most absolute rejection of Putin's aggression against Ukraine and to place at the centre the security of the people of the civilian population, both in Ukraine and in all wars, in Yemen, Palestine, Armenia, Kurdistan or Syria. That the unlimited reception of refugees has been activated, in the same way as the regularization of people of Ukrainian origin, is very good news, but it makes us think of the double standard of humanitarian values that should always be, regardless of the aggressor power and regardless of the country being attacked. I want to express the opinion of those who are against wars, all wars, and against empires, all empires. The principle of self-determination is a principle for conflict resolution and peaceful and democratic governance, it is not a right that does not exist, as you have said on numerous occasions. It is the principle defended by Lenin that gave rise to the Republic of Ukraine in the sinking of tsarism. Ukraine is and must be an independent country, but it is also a complex and plural country internally and must be taken into account. This has not been done by powers that have wanted to implement it, as when the European Union proposed an exclusive trade agreement in 2013, which excludes Russia as partners as well; tensions that led to the Maidan, and in turn, led to the anti-Maidan and the Donbás rebellion. The United States is another actor involved in the Maidan, like the European Union, that has played to face from outside. Not by chance the tension has increased at the time when the Ukrainian folder has returned to the hands of those who already carried it in 2014, Mrs. Victoria Nuland. Ukraine from 2014 to now has a worrying presence of neo-Nazis in the army, organized, among others, in the Azov battalion, which publishes in its networks how fascist volunteers from abroad join it, including people from the Spanish state. The scenario for Europe, then, is much worse since these sorcerer's apprentices decided to relive the Cold War, and many of the speeches that have preceded me today also go in that direction. The end of the Cold War should have meant an armamentist descalation and disarmament. Precisely so were the promises made to Gorbachev in 1990, that NATO will not expand eastward; promises that have been demonstrated in many recently declassified documents. The interests of the United States are contrary to peace, they want the militarization of Ukraine and the region to empower the arms lobby and to make sense of NATO, whose member States already account for more than half of world arms spending; more than half of world arms spending is represented by NATO member States. The path of peace is, therefore, through the withdrawal of Russian troops in Ukraine; the rejection of military escalation and, therefore, the sending of troops or weapons to Ukraine; the rejection of NATO and its commitment to a way of connecting with the rest of the peoples through cooperation and dialogue; a study of this Russian proposal to reach a treaty with the United States on security; and the support, also, for the people who manifest themselves against war anywhere in the world, especially in Russia. Not to war.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u35	I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands are on the southern border of Europe. My blood freezes in my veins when I think that one day we could be attacked by some country and that we will be left to our fate. The only thing that gives us confidence and reassures us is that we have behind us the umbrellas of Spain, the European Union and NATO. If Canary Islands is the southern border of Europe, Ukraine is on the northern border of Europeans. It is not a NATO country, but we cannot allow friendly countries to be attacked, invaded and massacred. [[The lady]] It is necessary to stop the feet of a homophobic dictator who imprisons opponents, pursues minorities and orders to poison dissidents. We must forcefully sanction a nostalgic government of communism, which wants to forcefully crush democracies of sovereign and peaceful countries. Putin not only wants to end democracy in his country, but also wants to do so outside his country. No one wants conflict - let alone the Spaniards, who are a people who want to live in peace - but we cannot leave our fellow Europeans to their fate, no matter how much fear they give us, no matter how much uncertainty there is, no matter how much they threaten us with reprisals. It's time to be brave in front of brute force. We must confront the communist dictatorship so that Europe's worst history does not repeat itself. We must defend freedom with all the forces that are necessary. It is a real shame that there are political parties in our country that are putting themselves on the side of criminals and not on the side of the victims, on the side of Putin and not on the side of democracy. You have the support of the Canary Coalition, Mr Sánchez. As President of the Government of Spain, you have our full support for everything that is decided within Europe to defend Ukraine and to prevent reprisals from spreading to other friendly democracies. We are either Europe or we are not Europe. I'm on my way. I only hope that Vladimir Putin will someday end up paying justice and history for the blood crimes he is committing with the people of Ukraine. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Mr President of the Government, Mr representative of the Government of Ukraine, I would like to convey to you the affection and solidarity - I think I am not mistaken if I tell you - of the people of the Canary Islands for the aggression their people are suffering. We unequivocally denounce the unacceptable aggression of the Putin autocrat against the people of Ukraine. We regret the suffering of the people of Ukraine; also of the Russian people, the autocrats do not represent their people. We also regret the consequences for the peoples of Europe if this situation is not corrected. The energy issue is not any issue to start considering the consequences. The Canary Islands have always expressed themselves that we have been able to oppose war, for peace and against the escalation of militarism. We have also protested against the violation of the rights of the peoples of the world; we have done so whenever we can. However, we know that, in a case like this, the weakness of the European Union, the slightest crack in the unanimous position of the European Union, is gasoline for the autocrat. We have it perfectly clear. That is why, after listening to the President of the Government, you have our support, as does the European Union, to put in place all the measures that are possible so that Mr Putin will understand that this is the way forward, not; so that Mr Putin will understand that the cost he is going to have for himself - which is actually what he is worried about, plus his friends, the oligarchs on duty - is inconsumable. And that implies firmness and the use of all available resources in all available areas of pressure that can be exerted against a dictator of this dictatorship. You therefore have the support of New Canarias in this direction. We insist: not to war, but neither facilities to the autocrat. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u40	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to express deep regret at the hundreds of people killed vilely in Ukraine by Putin; and also for many broken families, who are seeing how one part of the family has to cross the border to save their lives, while the other part has to stay in Ukraine to defend itself from a totalitarian attack. And I also want these words to be a tribute to the courage of the Ukrainian people, who, in a clear technical and numerical minority, have set an example for the world in the face of the unjust and unjustifiable suffering of war. Both they and their Government are today the front line in the defence of freedom and democracy; they are the trench from which the West is defended. Because this isn't just going to invade Ukraine. This is a war against the West; this is a war against the pillars of law and freedom; this is a war against what Europe represents and against what Spain is. It is a war of values, a war of totalitarianism against freedom, of dictatorships against freedom, of manipulation against the truth, of brute force against democracy. And, once again, we have sinned of naïves. We have believed that the time of wars in Europe had passed and that democracy was permanent and was defending itself and, once again, we have found that this is not so; that democracy is a permanent battle, that it has enemies, that it needs to defend itself daily and constantly and that there is no room for totalitarianism or dictatorship. Fortunately, Europe has reacted and corrected its initial naivety quickly. Unfortunately, the Spanish Government has maintained a more complex position, until today, and we appreciate that change of direction. Many times we have seen him make up his mind about other countries and others, not even that. We have displayed little weight and no leadership in the international arena. Mr President, empty speeches do not stand up to the demand of history which, in the most difficult moments, shows the difference between honor and the value of real leadership and the voidness of child pose. Once again, his alliances and the tolls of his partners prevent him from even getting close to being the leader that Spain needs. Today we have seen that some of its partners seem wrong to send weapons to Ukraine, but it did not seem wrong to them when weapons, gunpowder and bombs have been used in our country to destroy democracy. When the whole of Europe calls for the fight against tyranny, when the Ukrainian people call for the necessary help to deal with a savage Goliath, half of their government has demarcated; part of their government is more critical of NATO than Russia. One thing must be made clear: the tanks - ladies and gentlemen of Podemos; ladies and gentlemen of Ministers; Mr Errejón too - are not combated with tweets or hashtags; the wounded and orphans are not fed by the illuminated buildings with flags or hollow declarations signed on a paper. The defense of freedom cannot be complicated or fearful, it must be real, tenacious and decisive. Values must always be imposed on fear and peace can never be the price to pay for the blackmail of force. Today, Europe is playing a role in being just an economic market or a real union of free and equal countries and citizens who share fundamental values and, more importantly, a common future. To make this Europe, Mr President, you will have our support. The totalitarians must know that fear has never been more powerful than freedom, neither will it be now. It is an attempt to strengthen Spain and from Spain to contribute to a stronger and more united Europe. If that is the way, from our modest contribution we will be at your side. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, thank you for your explanations, which we fully share. In the PRC, like everyone else, we want an agreement as soon as possible to stop the Russian invasion that prevents more deaths and the disaster that is taking place. This is what everyone says, but it is not enough if what needs to be done now is not concrete. The PRC supports the Government of Spain without fissure. For my party the first thing is Cantabria, but this excludes the issues in which the general interest of Spain is at stake. We have already demonstrated this during the pandemic and in other catastrophic situations. We have always said that when our interests are defended abroad we must act as a pineapple supporting the Government, which represents us. This is happening today with the European Union and the Government must therefore strongly support the decisions that are being taken within it. Mr President, your Government must take care of Spain's interests, but in the case of the war in Ukraine it is about defending universal values - as you have said - such as solidarity among peoples, democracy and respect for legality and not particular interests. It is not just the freedom, sovereignty and life of the Ukrainians, but that of the neighbouring peoples and of the rest of the European countries. We will therefore support all measures taken. Good intentions are not enough when others do not have them. I am sure that the consequences of the measures taken and the decisions taken in the future will have been assessed. There are many voices in Europe, some more important than others, but everyone participates, and so decisions will always be better than those made by an autocrat like Putin. He's the one to be told that sound 'no to war'. Mr President, in Spain and in this Congress, the majority of us are with the government to be in solidarity with the countries of the European Union, as all have been and has been demonstrated in the pandemic. Also, and especially, with the Ukrainians, with those who flee and with those who stay there, and with the many thousands that we have living in Spain. They deserve our help. They are behaving with commendable courage and dignity and we cannot abandon them. Finally, and above all, it is about preventing this from happening to the elderly and a catastrophe that we do not want to imagine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. The General Courts deserve, Mr Sánchez, something more than an bis from the night before the dark times in which the intolerable invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops has engulfed the world in anguish and instability. In support of Ukraine and the whole free world, it is a time of support and unity for Spain to cooperate loyally with our European and Atlantic allies in the firm response to the breach of security. Despite the discordant attitude of a blue bank sector and some parliamentary support that irresponsibly undermines external confidence in our country, moving to you from far-reaching rounds of contacts between world leaders, Spain must be consistent with its membership of supranational organizations, whose mission is to preserve peace, provide mutual protection and act without hesitation in the face of attacks on the cause of freedom and in pursuit of the legality protected by the UN. Mr Sánchez, together with the very serious loss of life and the humanitarian calamity caused by this conflict, the national interest also suffers. You emphasized the energy field and I remind you that, in similar circumstances in the face of the wars in Iraq, your presidential predecessors, Mr González and Mr Aznar, implemented energy saving plans at various stages, initiated - unlike the Executive that you preside - prior to the outbreak of those conflicts. If our country's economic growth is already severely penalized by a disastrous political management that has dragged us into disorbited electricity, gas and fuel bills, Spain will now see its problems amplified, because, although we are not significantly dependent on Russian gas and oil, the war is hitting the entire economy hard, as already reflected in the price escalation. We're going to be late, we're going to need saving measures and energy resources. It is inexplicable that in the Asturian harbour space of El Musel, Gijón, a regasification installation remains unserviceable, another effect more of its bitter decarbonization camouflaged after a fair transition, which in the face of this colossal war crisis has left Spain unharmed, without energy sovereignty and without power generation thermal power plants. In addition to late, the Government is taking us with the changed step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Mr Dmytro Matiuschenko, ladies and gentlemen, as the parliamentary groups have done, we want to show our strongest rejection of Russia's unacceptable war attack on Ukraine, which in our minds evokes the catastrophes of world wars. We want to denounce the direct threats to the Nordic countries and the threats covered by a military escalation by Russia. We are also concerned and reject the hybrid war against the countries of the European Union, which seeks to sow mistrust in democratic institutions. They are in memory of all the First World War and the effects of its post-war period, such as the emergence of totalitarianisms, the Second World War and the Nazi Holocaust, and the civil wars, such as the Spanish one, which devastated countries and sawed the lives of more than 100 million people during the first half of the twentieth century. Very serious situations of unprecedented risk requiring maximum caution in the Spanish Government and in the European Union, as well as strengthening our confidence in democracy and in Parliament. We advocate that the Congress should work decisively for consensus policies to preserve peace and that information, diplomacy and international law should be imposed in the face of conflict. Forced exoduses are coming with hundreds of thousands of displaced people. Teruel Exists and the platforms of emptied Spain want to show here their solidarity with the victims of the war and with those who suffer the invasion of their country. We also want to offer our collaboration so that those displaced Ukrainians who see themselves in the need to look for a home for their families and to have a job away from their country can come to villages and districts of unpopulated Spain to find a job and the solidarity of their neighbours. Similarly, we call on the Government to expedite the arrival of humanitarian aid to Ukraine, together with urgent shipments of material for the protection of the civilian population, such as dual-use helmets and vests. Difficult times will come for the Spanish economy, for families, workers and businesses, and also for the less developed territories. On the one hand, because of the impact of the war on energy prices and inflation, as well as because of the shortage of cereals and legumes and, on the other, because of the possible booming effect of the essential economic pressure measures being taken. The threat is undoubtedly greater for territories that urgently need measures to correct depopulation and territorial imbalances. So, for example, the auction you have announced on renewable energy must be, in our view, for a distributed generation, for a Green New Deal that democratizes energy, as the EU winter package points out. European funds must resolutely maintain the objective of territorial cohesion in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr President of the Government, ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Dmytro Matiuschenko, welcome to the Congress of Deputies. I would also like to convey from the Socialist Parliamentary Group our support, our support, our encouragement, our encouragement for the very difficult situation that Ukraine is going through today, with all the affection and affection of the Spanish and Spanish. [[Applauds]] If we are here today, it is for a very strong reason, for the barbarity that is being provoked by an autocrat leader, an irresponsible leader, in Ukraine, but that is not a new challenge, it is not a recent challenge. The President of the Government mentioned permanent and constant interference throughout the international context of Putin. This is not new, not just in Europe. Of course today we are waging a battle for democracies in the West, but it has a much broader interpretation and a much wider spectrum, we must take good note in Spain of a challenge of this magnitude and this caliber. The President of the Government is coming to the House today to give the information, as is the case, to all the parliamentary groups, with absolute responsibility, of what has been discussed and what has been adopted at the last European Council, of the efforts made in the field of NATO, of the contacts made with different leaders within the framework of the European Union, also with Zelenski, of what he has transferred to the most responsible of Ukraine, which is acting with great courage and commitment to his country. I would like to highlight the action taken by the Government as a whole, the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, who have managed arduously complicated and extremely complicated. The Government of Spain has reported on all the steps it has taken in the Congress of Deputies, two appearances by the Foreign Minister, where it has described with all luxury the steps that the Government has taken and that the European Union has taken to face this terrible challenge that is taking place today. Of course, the action of the Government of Spain can be described as responsible, committed action; committed to democracy, committed to good doing and committed, without a doubt, to those who seek to defend the international order. And this challenge is a challenge that Social Democracy is going to deliver with great courage. Last 24 February, at a press conference, Putin, with night and light, announced a bombing of Ukraine based on two fundamental criteria: demilitarizing Ukraine and - nothing more and nothing less - the denazification of Ukraine; that's nothing, that's nothing. An autocrat leader who attempts by force to end a government democratically elected by the citizenry. Automatically, Ukraine responds by declaring martial law. It is hard, very hard to see how the citizenry, the civilian population, hides in areas to protect themselves from the attacks and bombings that Russia is imposing, in this case, on the subway, under the ground, in response to situations of maximum emergency. Today Spain announces a measure, a measure complementary to what the European Union has already announced. And I want to highlight it, because it is necessary to highlight not only the action of the Government and that of the President of the Government, but that of a figure who has been giving the battle very forcefully in order to avoid, precisely, this war conflict, which is Josep Borrell. [[Applauds]] Josep Borrell, a high representative of the European Commission, has been fully employed and is doing so with absolute commitment, by permanently assisting and dialogue with all European leaders. He has already visited Russia, he has tried every possible way to prevent this escalation of the conflict. The European Union, in permanent contact also with the United States - the Foreign Minister has done so; the President of the Government has done so - acts in a coordinated manner in the sanctions being imposed on Russia. The President of the Government commented well; of course, we are aware and aware of the need to take a toll for courageous decisions, but the greater the toll would be if no decisions were made and no bold action was taken, as is being done. Today we have been able to see here the position of the parliamentary groups, to which I would like mostly to thank the tone used, the commitment, also the responsibility, the vision and the sense of state. For the first time the People's Party joins the sense of state in foreign policy, welcome to that dynamic of closing ranks to defend the interests of Spanish and Spanish foreign policy. Yes, and this is news that we are pleased with, because, of course, above all, above all, above party interests, is the obligation to defend our country. [[Applauds]] Panda of drug addicts and neo-Nazis, as the autocrat leader Putin described the Ukrainians, the Ukrainian government. The Kremlin has launched an ordeal of colossal dimensions, of absolute irresponsibility never before seen, threatening nuclear forces; an unprecedented warning, a warning to democracies, a warning that we must note here in this Congress of Deputies to be aware of once that we cannot play with the democratic rules that we have endowed ourselves with and not only in Spain, also within the framework of the European Union. And the action of the Government, as the President details, has been enormous in humanitarian matters, in providing defence material, in the European aid fund. Spain is the fourth country that most supports this EUR 500 million that has been articulated for Ukraine. And, of course, in this line of action we want to put on the table contradictions, which alarm us and which worry us. Faced with global challenges, faced with challenges that put democracies in check, in this Congress of Deputies today we have seen an extremely aggressive intervention that breaks the framework of democracy in our country. Mr Abascal, the VOX Parliamentary Group, has today attacked the Government of our country head-on. He has requested the resignation of the President of the Government. A speech full of contradictions. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that this parliamentary group and this Government are going to confront with arguments, with policies, with the defense and with the certainty that social democracy will also win this battle against aggressive speeches that do not tolerate and do not accept that with dialogue, with responsible government action, with country commitment we will defeat the forces of evil, as Josep Borrell announced yesterday. [[applause]] [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros and Simon shows two photographs]] And we are clear that this is not the time today or these weeks not to hold our shoulders and stand on the side of our country and our Government. It is precisely time to join and join the common project of Spain. I said this at the beginning of my speech, this challenge is not a unique and exclusively delimited challenge to Ukraine; it is a challenge to Western democracies; it is a challenge to the international order; it is a challenge that encompasses beyond the threat to Ukraine, Moldova or other countries such as Finland or Sweden. It also has an international connotation, as you well know. I ask you for responsibility and consistency, because here today Mr Abascal has said: Let us attend to and welcome all refugees. However, its leader in Andalusia says quite the opposite, that they do not want refugees in Andalusia. Where is the consistency of the VOX Parliamentary Group? [[Applauds]] They've said it publicly, they've said it publicly. There are many challenges and these challenges have a historic track, and Europe has always come out strong from these challenges: from Brexit, not without difficulties and external interference; from the pandemic, with a strong and coherent response. And in the face of those who talk about Spain's leadership, I have to say that it was the president of the Spanish government, Pedro Sánchez, who in the middle of the pandemic led to articulate an impact plan for the whole European Union with more than 75 billion euros. [[Applauds]] Spain and the European Commission for the first time access capital markets to respond and recover as soon as possible to this shock caused by the pandemic. And that has a multiple interpretation, which is that the European Union and the international community trust our country. They are fully confident in the good work of Spain; otherwise, the conditions that are being given today in the framework of transfers and in the framework of the agreements that are being articulated throughout the twenty-seven. I would like to highlight the enormous work of the State security forces and bodies, the GEOs, all those who have made it possible to repatriate, to remove the people who voluntarily decided to leave Ukraine, in record time, despite the difficulties that were taking place at the border, as well as the entire diplomatic structure and body. Minister, they have acted at the height of our country, they have lived up to what Spain represents today, and I want to highlight that good doing, because, that good doing perfectly identifies, visualizes, draws what Spain is today in the world, in Europe and of course the committed character that Spain has. I can give many examples, but the mission that Spain leads in Lebanon in blue helmets is a clear example of Spain's commitment to external action and to defending freedoms and democracy. I would like to say with all this that today is the time to grab the shoulder; it is the time to be close to the Government of Spain; it is the time to warn of the danger of those who act unilaterally, challenging the international order, putting the European project in check, and it is not the first time. Because Putin does have the objective of weakening the European project, but Putin has the objective of failing the European project, and this is a clear example of what he wants to achieve. In the specific case of the People's Parliamentary Group, which has made a broad tour of the foreign policy being carried out by our country, we can say something very clear, Mrs Gamarra: the government led by Pedro Sánchez is indeed giving its face and breaking its face in the international community defending democracy and freedoms. Commitment is absolute, absolute. [[Applauds]] We would like to see in that change of direction that we warn - and that we trust it to be consolidated - correct mistakes of the past such as that of Afghanistan or Morocco. We have to meet many challenges in the present and in the future and we trust a party that has ruled Spain and that has not lived up to it in the last two years. With regard to the VOX Parliamentary Group, I would like to convey to you definitively that this reality that you draw does not exist, that democracy in our country is more than one, two, three slogans or four campaigns on social networks. Prove, and also demonstrate to the citizens of this country that you voted for them, that you defend the interests of Spain and not just its interests. [[Applauds]] That's what they have to do. This spokesman and this parliamentary group do not appeal to verbal aggression, insult or disqualification, we appeal to the arguments; and the arguments here today are indisputable and solid, I repeat, indisputable and solid. This government is up to the Spanish, Europeans and the international community and will continue to respond, as the Social Democracy has always done, in Spain and Europe. Don't let them have any doubts. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to move, Mr Esteban, that it is space, yes, it is the place for the President of the Government to draw out the measures that we must take and those that we must move forward. Indeed, it has opened the door to dialogue with parliamentary groups, civil society and social actors to take corrective measures in the face of a situation that is going to condition our present and our future. Of course it's the space to talk about it. This is the space: that of the word, that of the dialogue, that of the exchange of criteria and opinions to enrich the agreements that are reached within the parliamentary body and that have a direct impact on the Executive, Mr Esteban. That is the commitment of this Government. A government that governs, a government that also demands responsibility, that has a sense of state and that will wage the battle for democracy in Spain, Europe and the international community. Thank you so much. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and from the members of the Government present, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a five-minute recess. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's resume the session. [[Pause]] After the intervention of all the parliamentary groups, the President of the Government has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u50	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, by the tone. I believe that today we have given a magnificent example of parliamentaryism to all Spanish citizens, who look to these General Courts in order to understand and understand the situation that is being experienced in Ukraine and what will be the immediate impact that this conflict unilaterally opened up by President Putin will have on our lives. I think we can all agree that this situation that began on 24 February is a crisis that is going to last for a long time. It won't last a few weeks, it won't be a matter of months. We are talking about a crisis between Russia and what the European Union stands for, which is going to last a long time. Therefore, we can also agree on the diagnosis that this conflict undermines the territorial integrity of a nation, such as Ukraine, its national sovereignty, its freedom to decide which world it belongs to and which system of values to incardinate. If we agree on that diagnosis, we will agree that this is not only an attack on Ukraine, but it is also an attack on the European Union and what it represents in terms of geopolitical values and principles to move the world, not only to our continent. I, ladies and gentlemen, am going to address this reply in the spirit of trying to unite many of the statements and positions that have been expressed by your parliamentary groups, because I believe that the greatest gift that we could make Putines convey the feeling or image that Parliament in Spain is coming out of this debate; I believe that this is the worst remedy and the best gift that we could give Putin at this time. If we were to focus only on the nuances and the different perspectives that we can have on this conflict, most likely the image that we would give would be that, that of division, that of non-unity of parliamentary groups around what to read about this conflict. But, on the contrary, to a large extent and in most of the speeches by the parliamentary groups, I believe that there are common denominators calling for this unity which we need to transfer from Spain and from its Parliament to the international community and also to our society. There is unity around whom aggression has begun, who is responsible for aggression; unity around which we have to be in solidarity with the Ukrainian nation - there are perhaps nuances and, later on, I will be able to enter them - and unity around which, in fact, we all have to contribute to defending our democracy and our system of values. There is no doubt that the Government is in this, but it is not at odds, ladies and gentlemen, with us getting out of a belligerent speech and calling for prudence, calm and institutionality. When I hear analogies with World War I or World War II - and even some talking about World War III - I wonder if we are not aware of what we are talking about and what we are putting to the whole of Spanish society. I think it is important that at this time, each and every one of the Members - at least me, as President of the Government - we transfer strength, firmness, unity in Europe, but also prudence, calmness, institutionality, and that in our words we do not contribute to putting more petrol into the fire, that there are more bellicose velocities not only on the part of those who are attacking, but also of Spanish society or European society, who are witnessing atoning, perplexing, but also moved and outraged at what Putin is doing in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is at all incompatible to be prudent, calm and approach this conflict in a balanced manner with strong convictions in defence of the principles, values, democracy, freedom represented by the European Union and also by our country. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Gamarra, I appreciate the tone. There are some minor issues that you have raised. He has raised the need to increase our defence budget. Well, the defense budget, of course, is increasing. Indeed, the debate is whether we need to reach 2% of the gross domestic product, which has been one of the fundamental criticisms that different administrations, in particular the Trump Administration, pose not only to Spain, but to the whole of the European Union and other countries of the Atlantic Alliance; moreover, quite irresponsible and even coming to announce the departure of the United States from NATO, and I mean when President Trump was at the head of the US Administration. The approach being taken by the Spanish Government is to increase the defence budget to 1.22% of gross domestic product by the end of this term in 2024. For some it will be insufficient, for others it will be too much. Well, I think we must also incorporate two important elements, which, moreover, when you have been in the government you have also shared. One is that the NATO commitment specifies not only that 2% of the defence budget's gross domestic product, but also the investments of the allied countries in defence material, i.e. investment in defence. There we are at 20%, Your Honor, we are above what is mandated to the Allied countries in NATO at the Wales Summit. The second element is Spain's participation in military missions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are deployed not only on the eastern flank - in the Baltic republics, as I said before, and recently in Bulgaria - but we are also in Turkey and in the south. In short, Your Honor, Spain is an active country within the defense of the Atlantic Alliance in different geographical latitudes. Your Honor, when the Spanish Government is reproached for whether or not we send bilateral arms of offensive defence to Ukraine - not defensive, which we have sent from the beginning - I would like to ask you the following. The Government of Spain has tried to be as consistent as possible in this crisis, as coherent as possible. I honestly believe that Spain's announcement to hand over offensive weapons bilaterally to Ukraine is a debate already overtaken by Europe's historic decision on Sunday 27 February. From a fund intended for a completely different thing - for example, to provide arms and training capabilities and also operational capabilities in third countries, such as Mali or Mozambique, where we are training these military units - from a fund to which, as I said in my first intervention, Spain is the fourth donor - we are the fourth donor of those 900 million euros in Europe - we are going to allocate nothing more and nothing less than 500 million euros: 450 million euros to the delivery of offensive material and 50 million euros of defensive material and humanitarian aid. Therefore, the debate on what is the delivery of offensive material that Spain makes, Your Honor, is outdated, as is the debate on whether Germany delivers, whether Finland delivers, whether Sweden delivers, whether Italy delivers or whether France delivers, because we are doing so by Europeans. That is the historic step that Europe took last Sunday, and there Spain was from the beginning. When the High Representative of the European Union, Josep Borrell, called the various Presidents and Prime Ministers of the Government this weekend, I instructed the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation to say yes, that Spain was going to be there. Because, if we have understood from the outset, Your Honor, that this is a crisis that undermines our values and calls into question the security of Europe, as the High Representative in the European Parliament said yesterday, it is best not to go with the adoption of unilateral and uncoordinated measures, but to go in a coordinated way in the response to this crisis and, in particular, in the delivery of defensive material and offensive material. That is the approach taken by the Government of Spain. Let me tell you something: the Spanish Government has been asking for a few days now, in addition to the closure of air transport in the European area, to close the seaports to Russian flag vessels. I have not made it public, Your Honor, because I have always argued that it is not a question of seeing who is the first to propose this or another sanction. The important thing, Your Honor, is not that we close the airspace of Estonia and then Germany, the important thing is that we close it all and that we all go hand in hand. That does not mean, Your Honor, that we are behind, ahead or in the middle; the important thing, Your Honor, is that we are all united in the European Union's joint response to Russia. [[Applauds]] But, indeed, we are in a debate and, as you have complained that Spain was not responding, and we understand that unity is important, paramount and that we are at a defining and decisive moment also for the history of Europe, I have made this announcement. But, I insist that I honestly believe that the decisive step, the most important one that has been taken, has been to change the purpose of this fund for peace at European level and to transfer it to the Ukrainian population so that it can be provided with arms, both defensive and offensive, with economic resources from the European Union. I also insist that a quarter of the funding for this fund comes from Spanish economic resources. In relation to NATO, Your Honor, we participate, nor do I understand very well what criticism has been made of us. I think I can only tell you two things about NATO. The first is that very recently, in the evacuation and exit of the NATO countries from Afghanistan, Spain was chosen precisely as the logistics hub to be able to transport all the evacuations of NATO personnel directly involved in the country, but also, logically, of many Afghans and Afghans who worked with the international community and with NATO during those twenty years that the international community had been in Afghanistan. Furthermore, I would like to recall the words of the President of the European Commission, who is not of my political party: Spain represented the best values in Europe. I think that's where Spain needs to be positioned. It has to be a country that bets on multilateralism, not a country that puts its feet on the table when sitting with a president or another president, but that defends international legality, that bets on multilateralism, that is aware that we belong to a very powerful space, such as the European Union, and that makes Spain strong through the strength of the European Union. That's always been my conviction. We do not do it with laracas, but, of course, I would like to say that this work is being done by each and every one of the ministers and ministers of the Government of Spain. On unity, I believe that at European level it is well strengthened and at international level I believe that actions are also demonstrating that Putin's military aggression will not go unpunished. At the national level, I have not known what position you have before this response plan, but, in any case, I have told you that it is an open plan and that we are therefore ready to listen to what your measures are. However, I would at least like to recall something that the Minister of Finance pointed out to me earlier when you were talking about the economic resources that we owe to the autonomous communities. I just want to remind you that there are 129 213 million euros more than in the four years of Mariano Rajoy's government that we have provided and transferred to the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] And it is 44 billion euros more than the autonomous funding system that we have transferred to the autonomous communities. In addition, you, ladies and gentlemen, many of these resources were credited back and we have given many of those aids as non-reimbursable transfers. Mr. Abascal, look, I'm proud of you every time you ask me to resign. [[Applauds]] Something we'll be doing right. In any case, it is sad that you are using a crisis of this caliber, of such magnitude and such depth for European security and for the international community, to put forward a xenophobic speech where there are first-class and second-class refugees. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I know that these things of globalism you identify with multilateralism, although it is nothing other than the Charter of the United Nations, which is precisely what Putin is running over. Since you may not have that training, you should talk to Mrs. Olona, who is a State lawyer, because article 3 of the Geneva Convention explicitly states that refugees cannot be differentiated according to their origin or nationality. [[Applauds]] It's what you're doing with a xenophobic and denialist speech. And, of course, Putin's war conflict in Ukraine serves us to speak again about climate change and the feminist agenda of this government. Finally, Your Honor, you should be aware that in the digital world that is opening there are very few women, very few girls, who are studying STEM disciplines, the related disciplines precisely... [[Laughter]] I don't know why you laugh, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Perhaps you are grateful, but, of course, it is not funny for this government to keep women out of the digital world and the technological revolution. [[Applauds]] Yeah, I know that for you, that's all a story. Sure, I know. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis puts you in the mirror. I am not going to enter the easy resource, although I could perfectly, because yesterday or before yesterday Mr Orbán manifested that he prohibited the transfer of arms to Ukraine from the Hungarian border. [[several ladies and gentlemen: Nooo!-Rumors]] This is what he did. You reproach me that we have not done so until now, but you well shut up when you have to refer to Orbán. You have spoken about the Polish Prime Minister, but you have premeditatedly forgotten what President Orbán's position is. All in all In this case, I do not want to fall into that easy resource nor to remind him of his pictures with Bolsonaro or, as Mr. Bal has done, his tweets before the invasion of Crimea in favor of Putin. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u52	But I do believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this crisis puts you in front of the mirror and naked before the Spanish public. You, every time you came out here about my appearance or that of any other minister or minister to talk about Europe, what did you talk about? In the end they have talked about the loss of national sovereignty, they have talked about the need for states to regain many of the powers that are now usurping the evil Brussels that you often disqualify, but precisely this crisis reminds us of how important it is to move forward in the process of European integration. It is quite the opposite of what you represent and what your speeches pose to Spanish society. Precisely, we are aware that we have a long-term horizon to address this crisis and that this will involve us giving up sovereignty and space in everything that the common foreign and security policy represents. It will require us to tackle once and for all a pact on migration and asylum where responsibility and solidarity are balanced, and precisely some of the countries to which you refer have been the ones that have been blocking the pact on migration and asylum for all these years, which is what I asked last week at the European Council. You acquiesce; you acquiesce because you do not believe in the Migration and Asylum Pact and because, among other issues, you consider that there are first, second or third-party refugees depending on your race, sex or religion. It is not our case and, fortunately, it is not the case of the international community. [[Applauds]] He has also not spoken - because he is not interested - about the measures linked to the tax rules that I have proposed in my speech, nor about strategic autonomy. The only thing he has spoken about is to put the Green Agenda of the European Union and also of the Government of Spain back on its feet. And you, as the Member of the Foro Asturias also does, come back with the racca racca of thermal power plants, coal, gas or nuclear power plants - which, by the way, you have also defended - when, Your Honor, this crisis reminds us how important it is to bet on renewable energy, on energy efficiency and on all that is the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I must say with all due respect that your contribution to the debate, as always, is null and void. You don't make a single proposal, I just hate it, using this crisis opportunistically to remind us that, unfortunately, there is a partyxenophobic in our country and that it is yours. [[Applauds]] Mr. Echenique I want to thank you... [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Ooooh!]] I've also thanked the rest. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u54	I want to thank you for the tone, although there are things I disagree with. It was previously said by other speakers that we are defending a liberal democracy that integrates plurality and diversity, but it is suddenly criticized that there are parliamentary groups that have a nuanced position on such important issues as, for example, the surrender of offensive and defensive weapons to a third country. It seems to me to be a legitimate debate and it seems to me to be a debate that we need to have in this House. And there will be political parties, as is the case with the United Nations We can, who consider that it is not right, and I honestly believe that in this they are wrong; they are wrong, first of all, because Ukraine now has the status of an assaulted country and therefore has all the right to defend itself; they are wrong because, ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine right now, Ukrainians are fighting absolutely unequally against an aggressor power, which is Russia, and, third, ladies and gentlemen, I also believe and defend 'no to war'. But the no to war is not a motto, the no to war is not only no to the war of Iraq, it is the no to the war of Putin, and therefore it is to contribute among all to the descalation but also to help a population that is currently without any capacity to defend itself and to help it to do so on equal terms, at least with regard to how Russia is doing it. And I believe, Your Honor, that this has nothing to do with derailing the conflict, appealing to dialogue. I have missed your intervention, when you spoke precisely, like other political formations, about the need to open the doors to dialogue, that you demanded of Putin a minimum rule of war that is being fulfilled, and it is that, when the channels of negotiation and dialogue are opened, what you have to do is to stop the bombings, and precisely in the conflict in Ukraine that is not what Putin is doing. [[Applauds]] I insist, Your Honor, that we must help Ukraine, which does not mean that we and, of course, the Government of Spain are in that position that will contribute to the verbal or arms escalation of this conflict. On the contrary, we are extraordinarily cautious, we are extraordinarily cautious about our words and our manifestations, because we do not want to contribute to something that can happen inevitably and that among all of us we have not done everything possible to prevent it from happening. And there will be the Government of Spain in Europe, supporting that unity, contributing to the descalation, helping to open the channels of dialogue. But I also want to remind you that those channels of dialogue have been blown up by President Putin. The Minsk Accords have been blown up in the OSCE and the Normandy Format, and the isolation of Putin by virtually the entire community has been manifested in the United Nations General Assembly. Sharing your concern, sharing that we cannot contribute to a verbal escalation that will lead us to higher stages of bellicoseness by the parties, I do believe, Your Honor, that, of course, Spain must contribute to helping Ukraine in the way we are doing at European level, also at bilateral level and, of course, by helping to open up those spaces of dialogue and diplomatic solution. That is where the Spanish Government is going to be, as I also believe the whole of the European Union is going to be. And, by the way, I also want to recall and acknowledge the effort that President Zelenski is making, because he has asked to open that dialogue with Putin. In Belarus we have seen it and yesterday we also saw how it was asking for the Chinese Government to intervene. It won't be because Ukraine isn't trying, Your Honor, it won't be because of that! But the answer that Putin is unfortunately finding is not exactly a descalation, but quite the opposite, as we are seeing through the media. On the energy shock and, indeed, its translation into inflation - before the third Vice-President of the Ecological Transition reminded me, Mrs Ribera - we now have absolutely shot gas prices, not only in Spain but in the whole of Europe, and I think that we will indeed have to do something on two fronts: one that you know - we have been doing it at Community level for months, we are about to know what communication the European Commission is going to take out in a few days on what the instruments are going to be, the weapons to be able to contain inflation and, above all, the rise in the price of energy and gas - and we agree with the proposal that you have made, and indeed it is the one that we are defending in Europe, which is the decoupling in the evolution of the price of gas at the price of electricity; and, finally, ladies and gentlemen, I share with you that it is important to invite social agents - and I also know that they are in this - to this important agreement on rents, where, in fact, not just the costs, but also the protection of profits. I thank Mr Rufián for his speech. I completely agree, we're talking about an assault, we're talking about an invasion. It gives the feeling that, when we use the term war, it seems that there are two parts that are fighting in a balanced way, and it is not. Here there has been an assaulted country and an aggressor country, and I therefore find that very important. You have also said something very relevant and I share, Mr Rufián. You said that we politicians have to go beyond the banner. At least I hope to do so more successfully on this occasion, but we want to contribute precisely to going beyond the banner and thinking about structural solutions, because, indeed, we are not only talking about a crisis and a conflict in Ukraine, about an invasion in Ukraine, but about something much bigger, and it is the foreign policy relationship, the relationship that Europe is going to have with Russia and, of course, the threat that Putin now poses to the strengthening of a geopolitical power that, with many difficulties, is advancing every day in each of the crises. I recalled in my first speech, Your Honor, how until very recently we were monopolizing Europe's debate with Brexit, which almost posed a death threat to the European Union. We are overtaken and advanced precisely in everything that has to do with foreign policy. I am also convinced that, if the United Kingdom had been within the European Union, the response we would have given to the pandemic, to the COVID crisis, unfortunately, would not have been as forceful, as ambitious as the one we have, fortunately, made, and we have taken steps in integration, even with regard to indebtedness or - why not say so - in the centralised purchase of vaccines or - why not say so too - in the approach we are already taking on the unity of health policies in the Union. That is why, even if it is a nuance, it seems to me important to go deeper into that phrase that we must go far beyond the banners and think about structural solutions, non-council and immediate solutions in relation to what is Ukraine, which, logically, we must also give, but also, from the structural point of view, about how we define our present and future relationship nothing more and nothing less than with a geopolitical giant such as Russia. This is an issue that we have not resolved throughout the history of European construction and we have not resolved it either with regard to whether Russia has been able to resolve the western or eastern character of such a vast country, which, without a doubt, has also been exacerbated by an authoritarian regime imposed by Putin over the past twenty years in that country. But in the response that Europe has given I think I have noticed an evolution. If one looked at the balance sheets made by analysts on economic sanctions between last Friday and last Sunday, there had been a huge change of significance. On Friday virtually everyone considered that the sanctions imposed by Europe on Russia were going to be almost like a pinch in Putin's mophlet, and today, instead, we are all aware that economic sanctions are going to inflict an unusual damage on Putin's oligarchy - also on Putin himself, because, logically, he and his minister Lavrov are incorporated into that list of individual sanctions - as well as, unfortunately, on the whole Russian economy. Indeed, there have been speakers who have said that citizenship is going to suffer the consequences of this crisis and these sanctions, but unfortunately we also have to defend ourselves with this kind of action, which is ultimately what we can articulate at European level. On tax havens, Your Honor, I totally agree with you. I also believe that the proposal I have announced that, at European level and also at OECD level, we are going to propose that Russia join the blacklist of tax havens is a forceful step, which is in line with what you mentioned earlier. I do not know much about the Russian population - I do not know you - but not only economic isolation, not only isolation in the international community, but also the exit of very important sports clubs for the Russian population of the European leagues is a very important blow to Russian conscience and society. And, indeed, I recognize with you the work of the journalists who are reporting this invasion, this war conflict, unfortunately, playing their lives. Mrs Nogueras has made a reflection; on the rest I am not going to go in, because, in fact, it would be to reiterate some of the debates we have had on other occasions, and it is so serious what we are experiencing, so important what we are discussing that will allow me not to answer it. You spoke before the European Union talks and that the European Union should take note. Perhaps I would agree with you that, indeed, Europe must become stronger in this dialogue. Here it must be acknowledged that Putin has never recognized Europe. Putin never wanted to talk to the European Union as such. He doesn't recognize that entity, that project, he doesn't recognize it. It recognises the Member States. That is why, for example, he talks to the United States, he talks to the countries that are part of the Normandy Format, he talks to the Member States. It does not speak to supranational projects, as is precisely the European Union. And I think that shows just how Putin lives the threat of consolidating a political project of the European Union's size, which is precisely what we need to preserve. Just that shade, Your Honor. And, of course - as I was saying to Mr Abascal, I say to his lordship - I believe that this whole crisis reminds us of the importance of sharing sovereignty and not centrifuging that sovereignty or that competence into smaller entities, which, in the end, can contribute to a further weakening of the project and of European construction. Mr. Bel I want to thank you for your support. It has incorporated the nuances of small and medium-sized enterprises, and I completely agree with you. I agree that, in fact, the cost of not acting would be even higher than the cost we are going to have over the coming months and years. And, in any case, Your Honor, of course, I have always defended that this is an open, dynamic plan and that we are prepared to talk, as I will also tell Mr Esteban, with the various parliamentary groups to try to feed and ultimately to get it right. What we are talking about here is to defend a productive fabric, a society that is emerging from the pandemic and that suddenly finds itself on television with a war conflict that you could never think or imagine since the end of World War II on our continent. Mr Errejón is grateful for the terms. I share with you that we must keep our heads cold. That is our demand as representatives of the people; at least mine as President of the Government. We have to keep our heads cold, we have to be realistic, we have to know where we are, we have to do what we have to do, which is what we are doing, but without a doubt also contribute to measure, calm, rationality, and not to a spiral to which we can all actually point because it is clear that we are moved and outraged by what Russia is doing in Ukraine but that it would not contribute to a solution, which is precisely what, in the end, is in charge of politics. I think politics must be claimed. Politics is the defence of principles firmly, decisively, to know where we are and, therefore, to find those solutions at European level, which is where we become strong, where we are strong. Undoubtedly, I will be in calm, in prudence, in caution from the formal point of view, because I think that is where we want to see the whole of Spanish society, and not being on the front line to feed I don't know what military discourses that, in short, don't contribute to solutions, and if they contribute to something, it is precisely to exacerbate the conflict. On the humanitarian crisis, Your Honor, of course, I will tell you that the Government of Spain is acting on three fronts. As I said to other speakers, I myself defended last week - and the Minister of the Interior will do in the JHA Council - that we have to move forward on the Migration and Asylum Pact; this is so, this is a great opportunity. It is precisely the countries that are currently suffering from this refugee crisis that have blocked this Migration and Asylum Pact. Let us therefore make this possible, let us move forward without discrimination, as some other parliamentary groups have put forward; there we will certainly be, Mr Errejón. And at the national level we are already designing a contingency plan with the autonomous communities, with the municipalities to be able to accommodate Ukrainian refugees and refugees. I must tell you that, from the bilateral level, I have also expressed to both the Polish Prime Minister and the Hungarian President, as well as to the President of Georgia and the President of Moldova, the absolute will of the Government of Spain to host refugees who are now going not only to Poland, but also to countries with financial and economic difficulties, such as Moldova, which now has more than 17,000 Ukrainian refugees. It may be a smaller figure for us, but for them it is an absolutely difficult figure to assume because of the economic difficulties involved. I fully agree also with speeding up the energy transition. Perhaps there will be nuances in terms of intensity and speed, but I believe that we all agree - at least I am talking about your group and the Government - that we need to increase our energy autonomy, which must be based precisely on an energy that is not only good and positive to mitigate and adapt to the effects of climate change but also economically competitive if we compare it to gas right now. And, look, some of the measures that I have announced about the new auction of renewables, the drive to self-consumption that we are going to give, to remove some of the administrative obstacles to speeding up the development of renewables in our country, I believe are in line with what you pointed out earlier. And, of course, also in the area of social protection, I believe it is important to continue to protect vulnerable families, and, in the plan I have put before you, we will be open to hearing proposals from your group. To Mr Baldoví, I would like to say that we all, all of us who approach this conflict in good faith, to this invasion of Ukraine by Putin: how can we be right when it comes to defending a destitute population such as Ukraine, how can we defend our principles and values as Europeans, as well as our own security, which is being called into question by Putin. I would simply like to remind you that such important countries, with a deep tradition no longer only democratic but also of neutrality, such as Sweden and Finland have approved in their parliaments the surrender of offensive material, and that does not make them countries that contribute to military escalation to a potential war beyond what is happening right now in Ukraine; no, I think it is simply responding in proportion to the scale of the challenge ahead. I believe that we are doing this above all at European level, but, at Spanish level, I do not just want to claim the announcement I made today, which is complementary to what the European Union is going to do, because since last week we have been among the first countries to send humanitarian aid to Ukraine - the Minister of Defence reminded him precisely yesterday when we were preparing the appearance - and also defensive material, which some - in this case Mrs Gamarra I think with more error than right - to underestimate or frivolize. I believe that delivering defensive material, as it may be helmets or vests, is not precisely like delivering gel of hands, but helping the Ukrainian population, Your Honor, to be able to defend their most precious good, which is their life. I also share with you, Your Honor, that the message is indeed not only for the Ukrainian people, but also for the Russian people. Spain and Europe have nothing against the Russian people. We have him against an autocrat, against a dictator, against a satrap; we can give him the qualification we want, but ultimately he defines him as an enemy of the values we defend. And we saw it precisely on the streets of Russia, how a lot of people protested against the war and many were arbitrarily detained, from which again we asked Putin to release them. Mr Rego, it has also not become clear to me what your position is beyond being to recover Mr Rufián's words on the banner. You are not in favour of the invasion, but you are not in favour of NATO either, nor are you in favour of the Ukrainian people being able to defend themselves. As regards the media and the decision taken by the European Union to close Russia Today and Sputnik agencies in Europe, this is a debate that we too have had in Spain. In fact, a little along the lines of what I said to Mrs Gamarra before, we have not been the first to go out unilaterally, saying that we are going to close these two media outlets. No, we have said that we are going to talk to each other again at European level and see what we do with these two information agencies. And both, Your Honor - and he spoke of the agencies, not the journalists - are used by Putin as one more weapon of hybrid warfare. And, therefore, Your Honor, what we cannot do is to be naive and allow the disinformation campaigns, which here have been explained by me and also by many of your ladies and gentlemen, when Putin talks about the denazification of Ukraine, that Ukraine is now headed by a drug addict, that it is going to set up Nuremberg-type courts to hold accountable those genocides of the Russian population in Ukraine. These are the things Putin is saying, this is what Putin is saying to his population to justify the invasion of Ukraine, and the media platforms he is using are precisely Sputnik and Russia Today. And if these platforms are used as one more instrument of hybrid warfare, which is what Putin is doing, of course, we, Your Honor, cannot sin naively. I believe that democracy is also defending itself by standing on the wall in the face of fake news and misinformation campaigns. Mr Bal, I share your diagnosis, I share the origin of the conflict, but from your intervention it gives the feeling that you have come here to do a praise of your political party and the values that your political party defends. Without any doubt, it seems to me right that you say that we have to defend democracy, freedom, the plurality of our societies, but that is contrary to what you say after reproaching the various political parties, trying to place themselves in a position of apparent moral superiority. Your Honor, I believe that in democracy nuances exist, they are important, but that does not mean that there are first- or second-rate democrats or that there are first- or second-rate Europeanists. I can share with you the discrepancy that I have precisely with my partner in government, with Unite Podemos, regarding the delivery of offensive material, but that does not mean that I am better or more democrat than other political formations. I stand for democracy, freedom, the European project, but I also understand that plural societies and democratic societies have vehicles, such as this Parliament, to be able to express their doubts about decisions that governments or in this case the European Union can take. And that, Your Honor, does not make me any better, nor does it show that you are more committed to strengthening the European Union and we are not. We all do so, Your Honor, with the right, with the wrongs, but we are all in the same position, in condemning this aggression, in solidarity with the Ukrainian people and in contributing to their defence, and, without a doubt, also in opening up spaces for diplomatic dialogue to end this invasion once and for all and to respect the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of Ukraine. The problem of Europe is Putin. The problem of Europe is not Podemos, it is not Bildu. The problem of Europe is Putin, Your Honor. We measure the gravity of what we have in front of us. We do not frivolize it, we do not fall into the easy resource to point out now who are or are not. No, we're all the same. Each with its nuances, but we are all in the same, we are in the unitary revulsion of what Putin is doing. And, therefore, Your Honor, the problem of Europe is Putin. And the insurmountable problem for Putin is European unity. And that is what we have to safeguard also in this Parliament, without reproaching any political group, because what we are talking about here is how we understand society, how we live and live together in harmony and in peace, democracy and freedom. [[Applauds]] Perhaps I do not say it as eloquently as you do, perhaps I do not say it as emphatically as Mr Abascal, but, logically, I am committed to the European project, defending European unity. But, I insist, that is not incompatible with calling for caution, prudence, to build among all of us a discourse in which we can educate Spanish citizens about what is the gravity of the situation, why we are taking measures at European and also at national level to respond to the consequences of this serious crisis, not caused by Europe or by Ukraine, and to do so with the measure and respect that I believe the Spaniards deserve. After listening, as I have heard, to analogies such as that this is like World War II and, potentially, like World War III, Your Honor, what are we talking about? I think it is very important to keep the measure, the prudence, the tranquillity from the values and the firm conviction that we all have on the path that we have undertaken, but also to be aware that we are talking about a crisis of extreme gravity that we cannot underestimate and that, precisely because we cannot underestimate, we cannot also frivolize. I am not saying that you do, but the only thing I am asking you to do is not question or question the commitment of the whole Government, including those ministers who have been able to express themselves against a decision that I have taken as President of the Government, because this is a difficult, delicate, complex situation and the Spaniards do not want to see us reproach each other as we point out by saying that of you not or you do; no, here they want to see us united. [[Applauds]] You have also raised the debate on the European nature of Ukraine. That is a debate that must also be opened in Europe, in the Council, but, in any case, there are tools, there are instruments. There is the Partnership Agreement, there is also the Eastern Partnership, which are vehicles through which we can strengthen and strengthen ties with that part of Europe. Mr. Esteban, I appreciate the tone. This plan - I have already said it and I stress it again, I say it to you and I say it to all your ladies and gentlemen, to all the parliamentary groups - is not a closed plan, it is an open plan, it is a dynamic plan. Nor do we know exactly right now what the scale and depth of the effects this crisis is going to have, the sanctions on our economy, on the European economy: therefore, I insist, it is open and dynamic. But we saw ourselves under the obligation to offer in this appearance also certainties and solutions to some of the concerns of citizens, businesses, industries, consumers, the most vulnerable families. That does not mean that we do not talk to the political groups, that we do not talk to all your ladies and gentlemen and that we have this plan of the best proposals to be able to correct, as I have said to Mr Bel before. About the Baltic republics, I agree with you. In fact, the Ministry of Defence said yesterday that we were going to send around one hundred and fifty troops precisely in order to be able to strengthen the capacities on the Estonian border with regard to Russia. Many times, when one has the opportunity to go to the Baltic republics, one realizes how true and real Russia's threat is and how they live with a great deal of fear and genuine terror what Russia is currently doing, because it has been a few weeks since Putin pointed out to the Baltic republics, as he also pointed out to Sweden and Finland, as countries that put Russia's own security at risk. He is therefore not only talking about Ukraine, he is talking about Georgia, he is talking about Moldova and he is also talking about the Baltic republics. It should even be remembered that he himself, in his speech before the invasion, spoke for weeks of the need for the European security borders to be redefined and returned to Europe in 1997, which means for countries as important to Europe as, for example, Poland. The risk, indeed - you have pointed out - is to have puppet governments. Little has been stressed that there is indeed now nuclear weapons deployed in Belarus, and not only in Russia, and therefore the threat before us is serious. In any case, with regard to the plan, you have criticized - or at least seemed to understand it so - that it was coherent, that there were some elements already known. I believe that precisely one of the lessons, as I have said to some other parliamentary groups, is precisely that, strengthening and accelerating some of the transitions, in particular the energy transition we have been undertaking from the government for three years to this part. Mrs Aizpurua would like to say that, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs informs me, the Spanish journalist will be given consular assistance. Therefore, we are already in contact with him through our consular services. I do not agree with you in the diagnosis, Your Honor, I do not think there is anything else here but a questioning of Putin towards Europe and what Europe represents. I even believe that it is a threat that democratic processes can be consolidated in former Soviet republics - whether Ukraine, Georgia or Moldova - as has already happened, for example, in the Baltic republics. I believe that is Putin's main fear that, probably at a later stage, Russian citizenship may ask why there is no democracy in these countries and in our country. I believe that this is the main challenge we are facing, as there is an antagonism between the democracy that we defend and the authoritarianism that Putin has imposed over the past twenty years in his country. I believe that the action we have taken is absolutely unprecedented, that it is not only trying to provide defensive and offensive arms to Ukraine, but also humanitarian aid and, logically, the economic and all-round sanctions that we are imposing on Putin and the oligarchs close to him. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that we need to promote these channels of dialogue and, as I told Mr Echenique earlier, it would be good if you also reminded Putin that when a dialogue begins, the arms must cease and the bombings and indiscriminate attacks on the civilian population and the armed forces in Ukraine must cease. Yes, but these nuances are also important to underline, Your Honor, because Putin is skipping the minimum rules of war also in the conflict in Ukraine. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that this is where we will be, of course, within our capabilities, within the OSCE, within the Normandy format. We have encouraged the countries that are now leading the OSCE or which are part of the Normandy format to bring about that dialogue and understanding between Russia and Ukraine. To the spokesman of the UPC I will tell you that 'no to war' is much more than a motto; it is also to defend some principles, some values, not to mix things with others. Here is an assailant and there is an assailant; the assailant is Russia and the assailant is Ukraine, Your Honor, and that's where we have to be: with the assailants, try to help and sympathize with them. Little more can I say about her intervention, because I strongly disagree with her. I recognize Mrs Oramas and thank her for her explicit and consistent support. Indeed, we are talking about a long conflict that is going to imply that the European Union looks at itself to gain strength, resilience, and that is what the Spanish Government is about. Of course, on the fronts that I said before the common foreign and security policy, on energy policy, on migration and asylum policy and also on everything that has to do with fiscal rules, which is going to be a debate that is going to take place this year and that is undoubtedly going to have to be reviewed by the Member States with this war conflict, and that is where Spain is going to be. Mr Quevedo, too, I thank him for his support. I believe that, as you mentioned earlier, the division of the European Union is the best gift we can give Putin and, therefore, I believe that the best message we can deliver today to Ukrainians and Ukrainians from the Spanish Parliament is the absolute and strong condemnation and unity of the Spanish Parliament around its government and around the decisions that the European Union is taking. To Mr Sayas I will tell you that we are at all complexed, at all; on the contrary. I insist that I believe that with measure in the expression one can be firm in conviction and does not mean anything else that we are where we are, we do what we have to do like Spain, like Europe and, of course, we are not going to contribute at all, at all, to climbing, not even verbally, in a conflict with implications of an enormous magnitude that none of you escape. I also thank Mr Mazón for all his support for the Government of Spain. I'll tell Mr. Oblanca that I disagree radically. Nothing has to do with this conflict with returning to fossil energies. Indeed, what we have to do is speed up this energy transition process and do it fairly, as the Spanish Government is doing. I thank Mr Guitarte for his approach to hybrid warfare. I relate precisely to what I have said about the decision that Europe has taken to close two disinformation platforms that Putin is using as elements of hybrid warfare on our continent. As you have rightly said, we must flee from the analogies. Please, let's not talk about a third world war. Let us translate trust, tranquillity and perspective to citizenship, because I believe that this is precisely what we have to do among all of us. To Mr Gómez, spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I thank him for the tone, for the constancy in his expression and also, without a doubt, for the solidarity shown by the Socialist Parliamentary Group with the Government and, logically, with those who are actually suffering, who are Ukrainians and Ukrainians. You have made a very interesting reflection that has to do with the role being played by the high representative of the European Union, who is a Spanishman, Josep Borrell. Yesterday he made an eloquent speech in the European Parliament, where he appeals to that solidarity, which you mentioned earlier. He also called for the unity of the European Union, and it is precisely, ladies and gentlemen - to conclude - that I ask all of you: today to come out with a strong message of condemnation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and a strong message of unity of all your ladies and gentlemen around the Government, with the nuances that exist, but a strong message of unity around the Government of Spain, because, indeed, what we are playing at is a lot. We are playing security, we are playing a political project worth fighting for and working on, such as the political project of the European Union, peace, freedom, democracy and the international order. Thank you, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the floor.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can-in common, we can-Galicia in common.-Applause from the members of the Government, on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u56	Thank you, President. Mr President, after listening during this plenary session to all the speakers and to you in your two speeches, I think it can be concluded that there are two clear lessons that I hope you will not leave to the benefit of inventory. The first is that none of their partners, even those who make up their government, are willing to bear the costs that the new times bring. I would even say that they condition you when you can make decisions and apply them in this plenary. You make constant reference to unity, but it draws my attention, because there is part of that unity that you are not able to explain. You want that unit for the shipment of weapons? He has referred to my intervention talking about reproach in relation to the offensive material, but I think he has been mistaken as a spokesman, because whoever has described the sending of weapons as a mistake is called Echenique, is a spokesman for Podemos and is supporting his Government, it is not the People's Party. [[applause]] You speak of unity, but unity to increase the budget. You need it, too. However, you refer and reiterate in the commitment made prior to 24 February, to which you refer, to increase the defence budget to 1.22% of GDP. That means that we do not admit the new situation in which we settle. What we are asking you is the need, in this new international context, in this new situation, to strengthen defence and, therefore, budgetary policies. You also speak of unity, but to support NATO? And you see again how your partners fail again, those within the coalition and those outside the coalition. Those who do not fail there are the opposition and the main opposition party. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]] There is the People's Party for all the support that is needed to strengthen our position and NATO's position on what is needed. But unit, Mr. Sanchez, to share a diagnosis? You and we share it, but do your partners, those within the coalition and those outside the coalition share the diagnosis in this situation? No, no, That's the unit you need. This unit is in your hand. The unity is that you agree with us, that you seek it with us in order to reach those lines of work that are necessary at this time. He also spoke of some mentions in relation to the budget of the European Fund and that we are the fourth country. Of course, if we are the fourth euro economy and the fund is proportional to the weight of our economies, we are doing nothing exceptional about what we are. I therefore believe that it is also logical to recognize that we are in that position, no more or less, not as something that you, moreover, have promoted or promoted, but rather as the role that touches us by the weight that we have within the European economy. [[Applauds]] And you speak not only of the closure of air transport, but also of the ports. We share it, but it's going to allow me a reflection. With the desire that you have an ad, I doubt very much that that - let's say - discretion that you want to have is no longer a low profile that requires you to have your own partners. Right now, very complicated, you're going to have to choose, and I think what you shouldn't do is neither profile nor have a low profile. When I have to choose I recommend, if I may, that you look at Ukraine and remember the words of President Zelenski: Prove that you are with us, that you will not leave us behind. This must be the key to having to choose who supports you on this difficult road that has to be faced. Remember also all those thousands of Russians who play their freedom and their lives by confronting Putin and remember the opposition leader Navalni, who, without a doubt, is also sending very clear and very strong messages. From that position you have no fear, this party will be there, we are absolutely reliable and if you lack the unity of your Government, do not be afraid to bring to this Congress the decisions to be made, because you will have a greater majority than you have within your Government, where I say you will be lacking. That is the second lesson that must be drawn from what has happened here today and that must not fall to the benefit of inventory: the need to strengthen our democracy and our democratic instruments. Parliament's role must be key to this. Use Parliament. It took you a long time to get here. I think it will be one of the last European leaders to appear in the Congress of Deputies. Do it more habitually, and when you have to take one of those measures, where your partners failed you within the coalition - which have not even remained at this end of the intervention your investiture partners - the People's Party, if you want, will be there so that Spain will have the firm and strong position that we need and that we must have. The People's Party has shown it its demanding support for, as I say, a country position that is firm and therefore consistent. Today you leave here, from this debate, with your Party government by half and most of your profile partners in the face of this crisis.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u57	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u58	I'm finishing up, Your Honor. But if you correct and follow the route that we propose and that we can share, you have no doubt that perhaps you do not come out so strong, but the Spanish society comes out strong. We provide you with the tools that are needed right now. It's up to you to achieve that unity that would be a majority. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u59	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u60	Mr. Sanchez, I admit I can't help it. You come up here and talk to me about training. What do you want me to call you, Dr. Sanchez or Dr. Sanchez? Or are both titles as fraudulent as your government presidency? [[Applauds]] I have to say with concern - I understand that it is a waste - that you have missed a very good occasion today, speaking of borders, of security, of talking about what is happening to our compatriots in Melilla at this very moment. As you intervened at nine and a half hours, the Melilla fence has been attacked by two thousand people illegally, who have passed over our guards and our police; probably because another one, on this occasion the one in Morocco, has once again perceived the weakness of our Government and our institutions, as well as Putin. [[Applauds]] It is a good time that you have failed to say that in Spain too we have serious problems and that our own army could deploy on our southern border, in Ceuta and Melilla, to defend the territorial integrity and security of our compatriots, even if you laugh. [[Applauds]] And it is also a good time for you all to rectify and come back to the point that Ceuta and Melilla are under the protection of the Atlantic Alliance. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, I will reiterate what I have said to you, because you have given me the feeling that my message has not been made clear to you. I have told you that you are not credible, not reliable, that your Government is not respectable. You have appealed to international legality, which has been violated by Putin. Of course, but it is done by a president who, before appealing to international legality, should be able to respect the constitutional legality that he has violated and that he has been accredited in three rulings of the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] You have appealed to unity and I do not know what message you can get to Ukraine or to the European institutions with a government clearly divided and faced right now. Therefore, you are not credible, and I say this with concern, because you have made reference to the calls you have made to the Ukrainian President, to the various calls you have made, and I have bothered to read the thanks that the President of Ukraine has made on social networks during the last days of all the international leaders who have called him, from the American or European Union leaders, and even our neighbors in Portugal, and there is no reference to Mr Sánchez's call. They may have the concern of a firm and clear position of the Government of Spain, taking into account what its partners are, who sit on the blue bench and in those red seats where Putin's Communist allies are. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, I am not going to refute each and every one of the lies that you have raised about VOX in this rostrum and that you consistently raise, on most occasions with the help of the media, in relation to our international alliances or in relation to our position before the refugees. There is no discrimination, Mr Sánchez, is that we distinguish between those who are refugees and those who are not, we distinguish between refugees who flee from war and who must be welcomed and those waves of men sent in a well-premeditated manner to destabilise nations and to assault borders; we distinguish it perfectly, Mr Sánchez, there is no discrimination whatsoever. [[applause]] On the other hand, even if I'm not going to answer all your lies, I do want to give you a thought. Did the VOX lie strategy work for them? Do VOX demonization work for them? Because they've been perpetrating since 2018, and we have 0% voting intent. At each general choice, the backup of VOX increases to 10%, to 15%, and you continue to lie and demonize VOX. Already in the polls we are over 20%, stepping on their heels, and very soon ahead of you, Mr Sánchez, because the Spaniards are sick of their lies and that you insult millions of voters with the demonisation they make of VOX. [[applause]] That said, Mr Sánchez, I am going to say goodbye with the literal words of a socialist: we have communists in the government, and having communists implies a distancing, mistrust and a distance from the first Western powers. The president of the United States is told that if he gives data to Spain, that data can reach Venezuela, Cuba, Russia or Iran, because there are ministers of political parties who share that ideology. We are the only country in Western Europe that has communists in the government and a parliamentary majority based on all the issues that can further horrify a democratic government. We have communists, alliances with terrorist groups and then they are part of that majority not only separatist parties, but parties linked to Colombian narco-guerrillas, which is the case of the Communist Party, a Secretary of State who is a member of the Government that has been a lawyer for Colombian guerrillas in their negotiations. What else - this socialist asks - can we expect from our allies, who have a distrust and a rejection of what we can represent? Well, these are the words of that socialist to whom you have expelled from Spanish socialism, Mr Paco Vázquez, words that we share with millions of Spaniards. [[applause]] [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u61	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u62	In parts. Mr Abascal, Mr Paco Vázquez is socialist on the left and I am a priest, of course! [[Laughter]] In fact, I have to tell you that I am very proud to share the Chamber, with differences - because I can assure you that I have them - with someone who participated in the peace process in Colombia, such as Enrique Santiago. So a little bit of respect, 'cause he's got a hell of a lot more milli than you do. [[Laughter]] I'm surprised, because now it turns out that Putin didn't have any friends, Steven Seagal and that's it, when you lose the key for taking a photo with Putin, and everyone knows it. The thing is, he doesn't sell now, but everyone knows you guys lose the key for taking a picture of him. In fact, by saying that Putin is a communist, what is the source? Where do you get it? Toni Singed? Who says so? Who else says Putin's a communist? [[Laughter]] The People's Party tells us about unity; of course, the People's Party! Bad week to say, after the coup d'état at your address. In the People's Party, as everyone knows, he throws himself to the clap and not to the corrupt. So less unity lessons. [[Applauds]] Then they tell us about the center, that they are a center party; about the prison, ladies and gentlemen! [[Laughter and applause]] I just want to do something that in politics is unusual, which is to give a affection to the compañeros and compañeras of Unidade Podemos and of the confluences, and look that they and they, the truth, to us have quite few affections, but, well... [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Well, Rafa, it depends. The point is that I am very aware that we come from a coalition of government in Catalonia and, as I have sometimes said here, we are in the fifth coalition; you are in the first and second, going almost to the third already. Really, it's very complicated, more when they're political formations so different, they have huge contradictions. It's all very difficult, and I know you're divided. I applaud the courage of those who have not applauded according to what things, and I fully understand also who has applauded. I totally get it. You know that from our parliamentary group we fully understand the contradictions that the coalition of government you have, and I say this without any irony. Now, take care - take care - of the one who always applauds. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u63	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u64	Thank you, President. Mr President, first of all, I would like to refer to this aspect which you have introduced in your initial speech on the need for sacrifices because we have to fight for something that matters, for principles that matter. What you ask him to pay attention to these initiatives that we have put forward, which the Minister of Finance has quickly taken care to say that he will not accept, as is the deflation of the type of the IRPF, as it is that he reconsiders the rise in taxes - I do not say it, precisely says Nadia Calviño in the media this week saying: man, with the war of Ukraine we also have to think about this issue of the rise in taxes - in relation to energy, with fuel, with electricity, with inflation. I ask you - someone has already said this here before - to convince the Vice-President who has next door on the subject of not shutting down nuclear power stations and modernising them, because, in fact, the Spanish can have a bad time. You have also said, with regard to European funds, that they do not have a partisan application. Apply it to yourself, apply it to yourself. Do not apply them in a partisan way, because I remind you that in the end you have established a system in which it is the Council of Ministers that applies the European funds. The others have little chance. He hasn't accepted us to be through an independent agency. And, above all, it also convinces the Minister of Finance to establish efficient administrative structures for the implementation of these funds, which is the fundamental danger. You say the defense budget can rise by 1.22%. NATO is a commitment of 2% of gross domestic product, as Germany has done. It does not seem that Germany is a right-wing country, it governs Scholz with the liberals and with the greens. Let us therefore be there, in that investment of 2% of gross domestic product. He tells me he sees contradictions in my speech. You see, it's that all your partners, your government partners and your supporting partners refuse to hand over weapons and you have to be on the right side of history. You do not realize what part of the Spanish Government is discussing this measure and believe, or try to make us see, that it is only this small discrepancy with the populist partner of the Government, and it is not this small discrepancy. To the Lords of Podemos I would remind you, for example, how in 1936 France and the United Kingdom seized the international weapons coming for the legitimate Government of the Second Republic. I would then, in its day, agree with the Communist Party of Spain with that pacifist and bonanist stance. It is that they are nationalists, they are populists, it is not only that they disagree with a concrete measure; they do not believe in democracy or in the spirit of the Transition, in the values that I have shown you in my initial intervention. You speak of the 78's regime, and you socialists were the protagonists of that transition, supporting those principles. They don't; they don't, and they prove it every day. That's why I'm asking for consistency. I ask you to cast them out of the Government of Spain. They have brought Mr Borrell very well today with several statements and, indeed, have done impeccable work within the European Union. Ask Borrell if it's okay to rule with populists and nationalists; ask Borrell to see what he thinks of all this. That is why I am offering you - you do not listen to me, reject my offer - that alliance for Europe, to govern united without populists or nationalists. Because, indeed, I am not mistaken, the bad one is Putin, but you cannot combat the nationalism and populism of the world with populism and nationalism in the Government of Spain, which is what you are willing to remain in power. We cannot fight nationalism and populism with nationalism and populism; no, we must fight it with union, with liberal democracy. Let us stop envying Germany and look a little bit more like Germany, where people who believe in those values agree. Are you saying that I have made you a panegyric of my party's values? I am very afraid that you will be excluded from the values I have placed on this rostrum, because I have spoken about the construction of Europe by the liberals. But, Mr President, Europe has also been built by social democracy and the conservatives! Those who do not believe in Europe are the populists and nationalists who support their government! That is why I insist on the alliance for Europe, so that if we govern Europe conservatives, social democrats and liberals, we apply the same formula in Spain. It is not only a discrepancy about the delivery of weapons; it is about sanctions, it is about Ukraine's entry into the European Union, it is about the defence budget, it is about Putin's propaganda, it is about a lot of things that were manifested yesterday in the vote in the European Parliament, where his partner in government voted in favour of Russia, Putin and against Ukraine, where he called for Ukraine's surrender. If the People's Party agrees, it will continue to deliver on its promise to reach covenants. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the parliamentary group we would like to recognize again the tone, even of those groups that have not intervened in this second round, regarding this appearance of the President of the Government in relation to the invasion, aggression, crisis, the war established by the autocrat leader Vladimir Putin in Ukraine. In conclusion, we would like to make some observations and considerations on this second round of interventions. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, there are no good refugees and bad refugees. We are talking about people; about people who suffer and risk their lives for a better life project, who suffer in the countries of origin, whether it is a war issue, whether it is a question of unstable situation in their country or for any other reason. We see it every day, every week, every month, in the Atlantic, not only in the Mediterranean, but also; and we are perfectly aware, and this party, the socialist, and this government, led by Pedro Sánchez, have been characterized precisely by solidarity, by the humanitarian character with the people who suffer. And there will always be social democracy and there will always be the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Don't come here and say there are good refugees and there are bad refugees. What is there is sensitivity, criterion, cohesion and, above all, a country project; and we are very sensitive to the criterion, to the reality, which is also determined by the European Union. Mr. Abascal mentioned Melilla. Obviously this government is committed to Ceuta, Melilla, the Canary Islands, and the Balearic Islands, and Andalusia, with all the territories of our country, and so it will remain, have no doubt about it. If this Government and this group have been characterized by something, it is precisely because we are moving within the constitutional framework, within the constitutional sphere. [[Rumors]] That is why we have demanded compliance with the constitutional framework and the constitutional mandate to renew the constitutional bodies. You don't like that, so you don't care. At certain times they appeal to questions. Get up here, get up here, say exactly what the government is violating in the constitutional sphere. They do not have the courage, beyond throwing hordes and free aggressions to the Government of Spain. Look, I do want to move something very important in relation to what Mr Abascal has moved here. When we fight what you bring to public opinion in Spain, you feel assaulted; it is that in VOX you have very thin skin, you are not used to fighting dialectically, to tell them exactly the responsibility of governing. The time has come when we have to transfer to public opinion in our country what VOX means, what VOX claims, what VOX wants and how little VOX helps. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, we face a few decisive weeks, a few decisive months. Uncertainty invades the current reality in Spain, Europe and the international community in the face of the instability of decisions made by the autocrat leader Vladimir Putin. In view of this, I would also like to transfer from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to public opinion not only the support for the exemplary action being carried out by the Spanish Government and the European Commission itself. There are already several groups that have mentioned Josep Borrell. Josep Borrell valid, supports and, of course, supports the coalition government in Spain, have no doubt; and communication with the high representative is permanent and constant. In conclusion, we would like to convey to you that today certain attacks on the Government, on the stability of the Government and even on the request for the resignation of the President of the Government could have been saved. We are dealing with something else, we are facing global challenges and challenges that put democracies at risk, especially at European level. We ask for responsibility, we ask for height of vision, we ask for commitment and we offer work, constancy, commitment and defence of the interests of our country, a sense of state. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Foreign Minister gave me a figure which shows how dramatic the situation is right now in Ukraine. There are 2000 civilian deaths that the Ukrainian Government has claimed as a result of Russia's invasion of its country. Mrs Gamarra blames me for making decisions conditional on my partners. I, look, I think the approach is wrong. I believe that right now the task of the Government of Spain, and in particular mine, is not to try to divide parliamentary groups and therefore not the citizenry among those who support the European Union and Ukraine and therefore condemn Putin in his unilateral actions, in his abuse of international legality, and those who do not. I believe that it is all honestly, most of the Spanish citizens, who agree to maintain a firm position such as that which the European Union is maintaining and, consequently, also Spain. I say this because if my task - and I believe it is everyone's task - is to safeguard and build unity, of course I take into account all the views of your ladies and gentlemen. So much so that - as I said in the rostrum at the beginning of my speech and then in the reply, and I will do so again in duplicate - I believe that the debate on whether Spain, Germany, Italy, France deliver offensive material to Ukraine once Europe has made the historic decision to turn a fund that was born for something else completely different into a fund to deliver offensive, defensive and humanitarian weapons by the whole of Europe to Ukraine, is an absolutely outdated debate. And I did, ladies and gentlemen, because I listened to you, because you criticized the Government of Spain and even called into question the commitment of the Government of Spain to what our position was in the face of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. I heard them. And we reviewed that position so that there was no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, no doubt where Spain is. Not because the Spanish Government had called it into question, but because there was a part of the non-minor citizenship, which you legitimately represent, that you may have thought we were not where we were. Therefore, Your Honor, it is not that I am conditioned by some or other opinion, I am conditioned by all the views of your ladies and gentlemen, because my task, my job, is to defend the unity of Spain, the unity of Europe. [[Prolonged applause]] And I believe, Your Honor, indeed, that the debate with 2,000 civilian deaths in Ukraine... Mr Abascal is no longer here, but talking about surveys, if they're going to get over it, they're not going to get over it, if I have a bachelor's degree, if I don't have a bachelor's degree, but, well, what debate is this?, but what point of escape is there?, what loss of perspective is there? The contribution that VOX makes to this very important debate for Europe and Spain is that the President of the Government has to resign and that you seem to be doing very well in the polls and are going to overcome the PP and also the Socialist Party. But is that really the debate, that's the level, Your Honor? Is that what you can contribute to the debate as far-reaching as that which Europe and Spain are experiencing? [[Mr. Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Quiet, quiet]] If I'm very quiet, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. By the way, tell Mr Abascal that it is not only up and insulting, but it is important, as a matter of parliamentary courtesy, to listen to the replies as well. [[Prolonged applause]] Mr Abascal will not listen to me, but he was referring - and also his lordships in other speeches - to the Second Republic, to everything that Spain has experienced during forty years of dictatorship, and I must say, Your Honor, that you are making a historical revisionism that is not justified by reality. The Communist Party of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, fought for freedom and democracy. [[Laughter]] I don't know why you laugh, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. It is true that the other day, in the control session, you said that this was the worst government not of Democracy, but since the Civil War, and that gave you and all of you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests]] Yes, because you are able to say that it is better a dictatorship than a government legitimately elected by the citizens. [[Prolonged applause]] And to Mr Bal I would simply say one thing, and with all due respect: you have a very narrow conception of democracy, very narrow. Only the Socialist Party, the People's Party and the Citizens' Party are included in their democracy; only those three political parties are included. That's right, that's right. That's when you talk about the rest, because when you rule, you rule with the People's Party and with VOX, only with them, you don't rule with anyone else. [[Applauds]] But in any case, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a very delicate, very complex moment. I think it is important to transfer to the citizens the extraordinary gravity of the invasion by Putin of Ukraine, the need to have the unity of Europe, that we are doing it, that we are building it, that we are building it, that Spain is in that unity. Of course, I appreciate the tone of the debate and the contributions you have made. And I stand by the best of this debate, ladies and gentlemen, and we all agree that we are in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, that we repudiate Putin for his invasion and, of course, that we are strengthening what is being threatened today, which is nothing other than the political project represented by the European Union, democracy, freedom and respect for fundamental rights, human rights and international legality. On that basis, Your Honor, I believe that transferring the message of trust and tranquillity to Spanish citizens is the best we could do in this session of attendance. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-02-CD220302.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the whole House and on behalf of Spanish society, I would like to transfer Mr Matiuschenko, who has accompanied us throughout the debate, our gratitude and solidarity with all the Ukrainian people. Their freedom is the freedom of all Europe. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the House, stood up, addressed to Mr Matiuschenko, Minister Counsellor and Chargé d'affaires of the Embassy of Ukraine in Spain.- Mr Matiuschenko thanks the support, stood up, with his hand in the heart]] The meeting rose. It was two and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
