ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u1	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 23, corresponding to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Republican Parliamentary Group, which amends the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime to extend the right of active suffrage to those over sixteen years of age. Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u3	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Today we bring to debate one of those issues that in a few years' time our society will wonder how we were so reactionary not to implement it before, why it generates so much debate, why it took so many attempts to change it, why there was so much controversy, if what we were doing was expanding rights. Today, Members of Parliament, we bring you the proposal to extend the voting age to 16 years. Now that an intense electoral cycle is approaching, now that the crisis is intensifying, we propose that 16- and 17-year-olds exercise their right to vote for three main reasons: to encourage their political participation, to place youth at the centre of the agenda and to equalize duties and rights. To encourage political participation, yes, because exercising the right to vote is a right and from a republican point of view it is also a duty, and that duty encourages citizens to be informed, reflect and question what model of State they want. And if something has changed in recent years, it is that today there is much greater access to information that makes it possible for a much younger person to know the political proposals that exist. In recent years, we have had young activists of these ages as a reference, who have given a lesson proving to be the driving force for changing social progress, in the environmental, anti-racist and feminist spheres. That should be a reason for pride and reason enough for us today to have the will to expand their political rights. The sixteen-year-old vote also promotes that youth is at the centre of the political agenda. For too many years the generations of sixteen and seventeen years have not experienced any other situation than the economic crisis. We have no choice but to assume that these generations will live in worse economic conditions than those of our mothers and fathers. But today, at the age of sixteen and seventeen, we give this generation a chance, we bring hope. We say to him and say that if this proposal is adopted today these young people will be able to be decisive in the policies that are implemented, that they will be able to decide what living conditions they want for their present and for their future, without imposing in any debate and in any policy an adult-centered vision, contrary to intergenerational justice. The population pyramid clearly indicates an ageing population and this should also be taken into account when analysing the proposal we are presenting to you. At an older age, it will be more necessary to increase youth representation in decision-making. With the vote at the age of sixteen, we were able to do justice, we were able to match duties and rights. With the vote at sixteen, people of sixteen and seventeen years of age are allowed to work, to be able to affect how much they are paid, how many vacations they should have or how many hours they should work. With the vote at sixteen, those who can already be emancipated are allowed to influence what should be the limit of rent prices or how many social rental apartments for young people should exist. By voting at sixteen, those who can already have consensual sex are allowed to have an impact on sexual and reproductive rights legislation. By voting at sixteen, those who can already obtain the A1 and A driving licence are allowed to influence what the traffic rules should be. By voting at sixteen, those who can already vote in trade union elections or in the company committee are allowed to influence the collective bargaining capacity. With the vote of the sixteen, those who can already enter into marriage are allowed to influence the civil rights and duties of the matrimonial regime. By voting at sixteen, those who can already give consent to receive medical treatment are allowed to influence public health policies. By voting at sixteen, those who can already incur criminal responsibility are also allowed to influence the criminal implications of their actions. In short, extending this right entails increasing their personal autonomy and promoting their political participation. I warn sailors, before using today the argument that the 16- and 17-year-olds are immature, think for a moment what it means to be immature, in itself the lack of knowledge about political issues does not occur in all ages. And think for a moment what you are doing in your parliamentary activity to bring politics closer to the people who feel away from all of us, who just feel away because they are promised so much and are not fulfilled so much. Think about what they do so that from an early age it is understood that everything, absolutely everything, every day of each one - work, studies, housing or even leisure - depends on politics, on the model that one chooses when voting which are their representatives. Bringing politics closer to people and increasing the voting age are absolutely compatible issues. Don't tell us about lack of capacity. Does it make any sense for you to analyse the lack of capacity in deciding on the woman's vote, as was done in the past? Does it make any sense for you to analyze the ability to decide on the vote of people with intellectual disabilities, as it was done until 2018? No, of course it does not, because analysing the ability to decide who should or should not vote is absolutely discriminatory; it is more, it is only worthy of the extreme right, which is so close to the fascism that bases rights on the capacity of each. Those who have more than one legislature here will know that this is not the first time that our parliamentary group has brought this issue to debate. Indeed, we presented it twice: in 2016 and in 2020 we resubmitted it to the Senate. Call me foolishness, call me constancy, in any case so many attempts allow us today to visualize what majorities exist to advance in that right. Pay attention to the following statement: if those who voted in favour of our proposal in 2016, today would maintain the same sense of vote, today this proposal could be approved. This challenges you, MPs and MPs of the PSOE. Yes, to you, those who voted in favour of extending the right to vote to sixteen in the Parliament of Catalonia at the Youth Monographic Plenary in 2013. Yes, to you, those who voted in favour of our proposal in 2016 at the Congress of Deputies. Yes, to you, those who agreed with your U.S. partners We have a government program that committed itself to opening the vote debate at the age of sixteen. Yes, you, and your Socialist Youth who defend the vote at the age of sixteen. Perhaps that explains why today, as representatives of the PSOE, Socialist Youth are not involved in such a crucial debate. We call upon you as a party that can decanter the majority of this Parliament, as a majority party of the Government. It may be those who make it possible for the law to be discussed in order to extend the right to vote to the age of sixteen, or those who not only prevent rights from being extended, but also hinder the debate. If they say so much about defending the interests of youth, today is a good day to prove it. Leave generalist motions without any usefulness or impact and do the favor of demonstrating it with your legislative activity, with this law to begin with. This is not just an idea of Young Republicà and Republican Left, it is not. This is what they claim in youth councils such as the National Youth Council of Catalonia, the Valencia de la Joventut Council, the Youth Council of the Balearic Islands or even the Youth Council of Spain, which represent the youth association movement. This is claimed by the European Youth Forum, which is claimed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe since 2011, and is being developed in different countries such as Austria, Malta, Argentina or Brazil and in regional and local elections in territories such as Germany, Norway, Wales or Scotland. Ladies and gentlemen, in your hands you are betting on youth. They bet to encourage political participation, they bet to increase the representativeness of youth, they bet to extend the right to vote to those of sixteen and seventeen years old. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u4	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Members, young people and veterans. Once again, the extension of the right of active suffrage to those over the age of sixteen is being considered. It has been several times that deputies and senators linked to the Republican Left of Catalonia have promoted in the General Courts a huge change in the Organic Law of General Electoral Regime, LOREG, the basic and transcendental norm of the democratic framework whose changes should be supported by a broad political consensus. This is not the case, and it does not cease to be significant that the promoter of this modification is a group of independentist ideology that pursues the Spanish and Spanish in Catalonia and seeks to alter the rules of the game thinking perhaps that this way it can obtain a profit in terms of votes. In fact, this issue of extending the electoral census to minors from the age of sixteen has never been one of the political priorities in Spain. Thus, article 12 of the Constitution unequivocally states the age of majority at the age of eighteen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to speak against the Republican Left of Catalonia proposal on previous occasions and this afternoon consistently reiterated the previous argumental thread to oppose it, because, in addition to respecting the constitutional text itself, the customs and customs of the vast majority of democratic countries are not in line with lowering the age of voter registration. On the other hand, the modification of the LOREG in the terms proposed here and defended by Mrs Rosique would have a colossal domino effect on the legal system. The initiative calls for the improvement of democratic quality, although in its organisation the recipe should be applied, starting with respect for the laws, which are the product of the representation of the Spaniards. In short, I will vote against the consideration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u6	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that it has drawn my attention, from the intervention of the spokesman of Esquerra - taking into account that his party governs for almost seven million people and that it is a fundamental parliamentary group in the governability of the whole of Spain, of its forty-six million - that he has said that he is only concerned about youth if they are allowed to vote. He said it would be good for them to vote because we could worry about youth policies and carry them out, because if they vote, that programme would be on the table. I hope that, even if this initiative is rejected, you will attend to the youth, the people who are sixteen and seventeen years old. So far they haven't, so I hope at least they start doing it. The debate? The debate is now taking place. There is also a Commission, as you know, which is working in Congress and where they are also debating this initiative. So, those issues are there. Article 12 of the Constitution establishes the age of majority and I believe that voting is one of the rights associated with the age of majority. It's an opinion like any other. Because if we play what you say about obligations, look, from the age of six it's mandatory to be in school. Why don't we allow them to vote for children from the age of six? [[Rumors]] No, no, some of these children have much more common sense than some of those who are here. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] If you have an obligation to be in school, we will give you the opportunity to exercise your rights to see how you want to be in school. It turns out that if you vote from the age of six, in Catalonia you want to be in school in Spanish. See if those children have rights. [[Applauds]] With which, joining those things is very complicated. Is this a debate? Obviously, it can be at sixteen or fourteen; you have posed at sixteen, but it could be at fourteen. And be careful, because if this is approved - that could be approved if the Socialist Party does what it did, as you said a few years ago -, just like someone takes a surprise too, because taking for granted who votes is usually a rather risky thing. When the ballot boxes open, what surprises people take away! In any case, as long as this is approved or not, you worry about those who are sixteen and seventeen years old, who so far have abandoned them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u8	Thank you. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u9	Thank you, President. The explanatory statement already points out that it is an incongruity that is considered adult enough for a person aged sixteen to sign a contract of employment, to obtain consent in medical treatment or even, with some exception, to enter into marriage and, however, not considered adult enough to exercise suffrage. Only this reason would be enough, but there are others also derived from the situation today of young people and their specific problems. These problems are not among the political priorities of Governments. These are issues that affect society as a whole, but with particular depth to the people who are adolescents today, because they all have to do with the lack of expectations and anxiety for the future. 34% youth unemployment doubling the EU average and precarious employment; the price of housing making it inaccessible, with the result that 80% of the under 30s have not yet been able to emancipate themselves, or irritating climate policies that are not up to the enormous challenge of avoiding the rise of the average temperature of the planet by a degree and a half before 2030, all this affects mental health, another problem accentuated by the lack of horizons, by the feeling that they have an uninhabitable planet. Of course, voting is only a small part of political action, but getting this right is an opportunity. It is a message that is sent to an entire generation: that it must take the reins of the future, situate these problems among the political priorities and carry out the necessary profound, revolutionary political transformations, in order to meet these problems that I have previously placed. We will therefore support that the age of suffrage be lowered to sixteen years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u10	Thank you. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u11	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, why should we oppose extending rights? What is the meaning of a proposal that gives citizens of this State greater capacity to exercise a right? Why oppose it? Expanding rights, precisely, should be the hallmark of a progressive government and a parliament in which there is a majority of left and progressive forces. It is obvious, and we have heard it before, that the bloc of the right and the extreme right oppose, oppose a step forward in the recognition of rights. We have already heard the teloneros both of Foro Asturias and of - I was going to say UPN - UPN oppose; also oppose with arguments, with all respect, bar bar. That is not to say Republican Left of Catalonia, that is being told by the Council of Europe, if what is to be done is to thank Republican Left of Catalonia for bringing a proposal that will help to be approved - to this state to have a more democratic society and with parameters of democratic strengthening. If you're doing them a favor, man! Don't you realize? [[Applauds]] Let's see, if it's not about who those sixteen- or seventeen-year-olds can vote for either. There's your free right, it's the recognition of a capacity. In this debate, which is not new, the arguments are repeated and, as Mrs Rosique rightly said, it is that in some cases the exact same arguments that were used by the most reactionary parties a century ago to deny the female vote are repeated. What a surprise! But what surprises me - I learned today - is that the Socialist Party does not seem to support this consideration, which curiously did support when it was in the opposition. Come on, in the opposition, yes; but in the government, no. For to agree you hide very well, because, of course, if the argument is that this law would need a consensus, you are giving veto power to these right-wing ladies and gentlemen. They are recognizing that capacity to veto a decision that arithmetically and mathematically could be adopted in this House. You've already explained it. They can, however, argue that there is already a Sub-Commission in the Constitutional Commission to study this matter. Well, it's just that we're already at the end of the legislature and everything is guessing - if not, I'll bet you a meal to whoever you are - that this proposal is not going to be approved in that Sub-Commission. I wish I were mistaken, I'd love to pay for that meal. But everything indicates that they want the legislature to end without this coming forward. As I pointed out earlier, this proposal has been discussed here on numerous occasions, it is also led by a resolution of the Council of Europe - we will not be surprised that they voted against it, when last week they voted against resolutions also coming from the same Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe - but at least it is a shot at the foot because it would help to strengthen the democratic capacity of this State. He therefore called for the participation of as many people as possible in the political process and in decision-making with the need to expand the right to vote from the age of sixteen. But if you want to go back to the old Universal Declaration of Human Rights, where it says that everyone has the right to participate in the Government of his country, article 21. For this is a radically democratic proposal that wants to deepen precisely in that spirit. He said a parliamentarian from Navarra, from the most reactionary right, that why not the six-year-olds, trying to ridicule them. Well, I have already said that there is the resolution of the Council of Europe, but it is that above all the most prestigious universities have already done studies that are on the way to determining when there is a capacity, a maturity from a psychological and neurobiological point of view, and in all cases it says the same thing, that there is no difference between a person of sixteen years and eighteen in the area of maturity or decision-making of cognitive capacities. There's no difference. When this debate is brought to this House the arguments, which are logical, that are in the drawer and will be repeated this afternoon surely by the majority of the speakers, who are the following. If a person has obligations and rights, whether at the workplace or at the penal level, in the ability to join and vote when working or in the ability to make decisions about medical treatment, why veto the ability to influence and make decisions, through their representatives, by voting? Why deny that ability to decide in laws of education, housing, work, those young people and those 16- and 17-year-olds? It's common sense, it's logical. But in addition to making this decision, they would not be at the forefront either. There are already sixteen States in the world that have taken this step. Here they have the capacity to be a referent, to be of those first States that make that decision or to be of the last. Before, one intervener encouraged them to be the last. If everyone knows that over the next few years this measure will be taken by a large number of States, why not, with the necessary votes, take this decision now. I was saying, it's a recognition of rights. In this case there would be 850 000 young people who would be recognized as protagonists of their future, as they said in an electoral programme of the Socialist Party - I like the term very much -. I think there's the votes, there's the ability to get this going. What fear is there of recognizing this right to these people? Why oppose expanding rights? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u12	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u13	Thank you very much, President. This is not the first time that the plenary of this House has been debating an initiative to extend the right of active suffrage to those over the age of sixteen. We are now again discussing the consideration of an initiative which, in its own terms, was addressed in the XI and XII Legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already made the point that our parliamentary group will not support the initiative, not by the measure itself, but because we believe that a decision of this kind cannot be taken from the roof, must be the subject of deep reflection, the subject of a great political and social pact. It requires for its adoption the consideration of its impact in all orders: in the legal order, in relations between generations, in political agendas, in the social media, in public policies, in political participation. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a measure like this which is proposed calls for a process of gradual reflection for its impact on democracy and on the generational distribution of political power at the expense of the fact that, if not done, what is a debate and reflection on the extension of democracy could be accused of blatant opportunism in electoral doors, which I am aware is not in the intention of the promoters of the initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria, which was the first country in the Union to implement the electoral age at sixteen in 2007 at the federal level, I think it should be our model of how to do things. The reform of the 2007 electoral law was the culmination of an evolutionary process of social maturation on the issue; by that time, the majority of the Länder, each with their own pace, had already lowered the age from eighteen to sixteen for local and land elections, and there was already experience and evaluation for a federal state pact such as that of 2007, resulting, as I said, from a process of a change of culture in the generational distribution of political power. That is why I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that our parliamentary group is not in principle against the measure itself, but it cannot be dealt with from the roof either, because we believe that the official bulletin itself does not have the capacity to make such profound changes as the one proposed, when we also have, as has already been said, a subcommittee on the study of the LOREG, so that the parliamentary groups can present for their debate those reforms of the same which we consider appropriate and necessary. In this respect, our parliamentary group is in favour of a deep, serious and honest debate on the extension of democracy, but, while we affirm this, we also say that we do not consider it appropriate for this debate to start with a proposal for a law, since we believe that the process of amendments is not competent to address the many issues that can trigger structural reform as proposed, not only in the socio-political aspects, but also in the constitutional order, since reform as intended would perhaps require constitutional reform. We ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that article 68.5 of the Constitution provides that all Spaniards who are in full use of their political rights, who are acquired with citizenship under article 23, are electors and eligible, and this is with the age of majority that article 12 establishes at the age of eighteen. Thus, the exercise of political rights associated with citizenship initially finds an apparently strong constitutional regulation that seems to require at least a calm and doctrinally sustained study to make the age of acquisition of political citizenship more flexible without constitutional reform. Also - and I am finalizing, President - the impact of the reform on the rest of the legal system will demand - we have already said in some other intervention on this same subject - a strong adjustment so that the legal system itself does not lose coherence; for example, in educational curricula, so that young people who access the vote for the downsizing of the electoral age can assume this new area of political and public responsibility, in addition to reducing that new political age to a large part of the legal and sectoral regulations; at least an intense debate would open up. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the strengthening of democracy and its legitimacy call for the investigation of the generational suture of political power through the possibility of lowering the voting age and giving better effect to the right of young people to participate. But this must be addressed and the result of a process of reflection that generates a great political and social pact on the participation of young people in the debate of political power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u14	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u15	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We have recently adopted the reform of the electoral law with regard to the petitioned vote, when the two parties of bipartisanism and the nationalist parties have ruled Spain for forty years and have not done the least to change something as completely out of any doubt as it is that citizens abroad do not have to beg or beg the Spanish State to provide them with the ballot. Voting is a fundamental right. Well, there have been citizens there to put an end to this ignominy in the electoral law, which neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party nor the Basque Nationalist Party nor the Republican Left of Catalonia during all these years have had any interest in suppressing. And here we are again with an initiative that tries to go from points to those great reforms that we need in the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, but that do not interest, that do not suit, because when we do the accounts we get that we will have fewer seats. It is a question of maintaining the paradigm - Mr Rufián has said it sometimes and Mrs Aizpurua has also said it from here - it is a question of maintaining permanent blackmail for Spain, the People's Party and now the Socialist Party, making the governments of Spain stand not in the right-wing nationalists, but in the left-wing nationalists. And it's rare, because Esquerra doesn't usually come here to propose timely reforms, he doesn't come to propose small reforms, like this one of the sixteen years old, but it usually comes in a tremendous way, with cannons and putting his ideas into the laws or trying to blackmail the Spanish government, for example, with democratic memory, trying to amend the Amnesty Act or defending that the right to vote allows the Constitution and the mandates of the Constitutional Court to be disobeyed, even though the Spanish Constitution establishes that the right to call a referendum is the exclusive competence of the State. Why, then, does Republican Left of Catalonia come to tell us now that the sixteen-year-olds have to vote? Why would it be? Because they like Spanish electoral law a lot; they hate all the Spanish laws except one: the electoral law. How is Catalonia the only autonomous community that does not have its own electoral law, which refers to Spanish law precisely to regulate its own legislation or autonomous calls? Because in the Parliament of Catalonia they get a representation where it seems that the independenceists are majority, when on the street - in the votes - they do not give that majority, because the law benefits them precisely so that there is not that ratio between what people think and vote and what is reflected in the seats of the autonomic legislative assembly, which is the same thing that happens in the Congress of Deputies. And the same goes for the PNV. Mr Legarda has made a great speech, but you understand that the PNV has a representation throughout the national territory of a small 1% of the votes, 1% that the PNV has used in a masterful way for forty years to continue blackmailing Spain, to continue supporting or withdrawing support for certain governments and, in this way, to continue with its blank cheque where it puts the specific figure that the State has to pay. The PP and PSOE have never used their majority to agree on this issue as important as reforming an unjust electoral law. You will tell me: Man, how exaggerated is this gentleman! Well, look, it costs PSOE and PP 56,000 votes for their seats; Esquerra 66 000; PNV 62 000; Bildu 55 000; Citizens 1 630 000 votes for each seat. Of course, when we make the accounts they say: Why change the electoral law if I get out so cheap the seats I am occupying, even though there is no such representation between the feeling of the people and the representation that exists in the Congress of Deputies? Indeed, it costs us three times as many votes each seat as the PSOE and the PP, and that is why they have never agreed. In Spain there is no motto: 'A citizen, a vote'. Each vote is worth more or less depending on where you vote, depending on whether you are from Teruel, Madrid, Barcelona or Gipuzkoa. However, we believe in a Spain of free and equal citizens and want that the vote of each Spanish is worth the same in the different parts of the national territory, because, if not, we convert the minority into a majority. We have already said this: the PNV or Bildu have a small 1% of the vote in all of Spain, Esquerra has 3.50% and we, Citizens, have 7%. The minority becomes the majority to decide the future and fate of 47 million Spaniards; we have seen this in the last forty years, supporting governments or letting them fall and always subjecting Spain to blackmail. In the meantime, the reforms that we need in Spain remain unfulfilled, because these gentlemen, the nationalists, need a weak Spain, a Spain in which those reforms are not made, because they only look for their territories, because they only want their privileges. In the meantime, Extremadura is still without a train because they do not like PNV or Esquerra; they don't care. We in the Sub-Commission of the Constitutional Commission have been the only ones who have proposed an in-depth reform of the electoral law: a direct election of the provincial deputies, which assigns to each province the minimum number of deputies, that the rest of the deputies be assigned by a population criterion, that the D'Hont system be changed, that those who are fleeing justice cannot be presented, that electoral debates are mandatory, that mailing is unique for all parties, that polls can be published last week. But we don't talk about this because it doesn't work. We're talking about sixteen years old. Yes, we agree on many of the things Mrs Rosique has said. Indeed, there is a real problem with the rights of those over the age of sixteen who are not yet eighteen, but this is not going to be resolved with our vote in a timely reform, because you continue to want to blackmail Spain and we want to reform the law. 'A citizen, a vote', a Spain of free and equal citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u16	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. It is part of the principles of the BNG and its youth organization, Galicia Nova, the defence of the political participation of youth, the promotion of their self-organization and the demand for decision-making spaces where their demands and needs are taken into account. We therefore believe in their ability and maturity to make decisions on those issues that affect them in an important way, because, in addition, turning reality into a positive reality requires youth. Therefore, we can only agree on the democratic progress that would extend the right of active suffrage and allow all persons over the age of sixteen to vote, to decide with their participation the future and the direction of policies that affect them now as young people or will affect them in the future: the labour market, access to housing, health, education, etc. As stated in the explanatory statement, people from sixteen years of age can work, emancipate themselves, decide about their medical treatment and should therefore also be able to decide the political orientation of all this with their vote. Youth have much to say and to contribute to the design of public policies and it should be a commitment of the public authorities to promote interest and reduce the detachment and disaffection of the resolution of problems affecting them. In short, we must train critical human beings, concerned about the environment and society in which they live. To this end, they must also see recognized rights and responsibilities in decision-making. We will therefore support the consideration of this bill. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u18	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u19	Thank you very much, President. Progressive majorities serve to expand rights. I therefore hope that the progressive majority in this House will now extend the right to vote of young people to sixteen or seventeen years of age. As for the argument that they are unprepared or immature, we all know people who are matured from a naveline orange caught in July. We ask young people not to be able to vote and, instead, they are prepared and mature to marry, have children and raise them, and some even want to take away their right not to have them. They are older and mature to be emancipated, they are older and mature to work, they are older and mature to have criminal responsibility, but they are not mature to vote. That is, we recognize their capacities and responsibilities and, instead, deny them the right to influence policies that affect them and to choose the people who can represent them. Countries where you can vote before the eighteen: Austria - the study has said that it has not radically influenced behavior, but, instead, it has made young people become much more involved in politics - Argentina, Brazil, Germany in four states, Scotland, Serbia, Bosnia, Croatia, Slovenia or Hungary if you are married. Hungary, gentlemen of VOX, in Hungary you can vote at sixteen if you are married. What will it have to do with whether you're married or not? Anyway, I was one of those two million citizens who couldn't vote for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u20	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u21	Then we had to vote at twenty-one, now at eighteen. Why not at 16? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u22	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u23	Good morning. Obviously, Junts per Catalunya is going to vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposal that the Republican Group is presenting to us today, because we agree with the proposal to extend the right to vote, to vote actively, to those over the age of sixteen; and also because we are consistent with the position of our parliamentary group in the Parliament of Catalonia, because, ladies and gentlemen, one position cannot be maintained in one House and then another in another House, it is not coherent. Expanding this right is an issue that, as I said, has been dealt with several times in the Catalonian Parliament, as Mrs Rosique has also said. I will refer only to the last time, on 12 May, when Resolution 357/XIV on youth emancipation was adopted, in which point 2 (a) calls on the Government to ask the Government - I quote literally - to: 'Progress towards the recognition of the right to vote at the age of seven years by means of a reform of the Organic Law 5/1985, of 19 June, of the General Electoral Regime, to extend the right to vote at the age of seven years and to make effective the equalization of the rights and rights of young people between the ages of seven and divided'. End of date. And if this resolution was adopted it was because unfortunately the Catalan legal system remains marked by Spanish legislation, a regulation that prevents us from adopting an electoral law of Catalonia establishing the minimum voting age for elections to the Parliament of Catalonia in the sixteen years if before the LOREG is not changed. But don't worry, you don't have to change your sacrosanct Constitution, because, as Mrs Rosique has said, in other areas - work, criminal, civil taxation, for example - there is an exception to that age. Mr Bal, if you are so sure of what the citizens of Catalonia are defending, let us make a new referendum and let there be 'A citizen, a vote'. Let's sing to him and then we'll see the representation and what the people of Catalonia really think. [[Applauds]] Is the right to vote at the age of sixteen a widely recognized right? No, it's not, but it's not a novelty or an exception to a unanimous practice either. As has already been pointed out, there are countries that allow this, some in a universal way and others with conditionalities. We defend it in a universal way. In its proposal, the Republican Group proposes to amend four articles and we believe that Article 26.2 should be carefully considered, as it raises some doubts. However, we believe that other articles that have not been included may also be subject to amendment, but all of them, together with the four that you propose, will obviously be dealt with if this proposal - as we hope - continues. It is now only their consideration, a consideration that can be made despite the fact that a subcommission for reform of the LOREG has been in force, as has already been done by amending some of it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we often complain that young people do not participate, that young people do not care about politics, that they live in their world. Perhaps the fact that they can elect their representatives at the age of sixteen would encourage them to participate in representative democracy. In Junts per Catalunya we believe that the time has come to make a change and to move forward in the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u24	Thank you. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send all my support to comrade Isa Serra, who today received the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Madrid, which informs her that she is starting now, two and a half years later, to run the time of her sentence for trying to stop an eviction. I want to send you all the support, because your right to full political partition is being unfairly curtailed. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government has also set itself the objective of opening the debate on voting to the age of sixteen, as laid down in the coalition agreement and as proposed by the Council of Europe. The Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 and the director of INJUVE already spoke last year about the need to open this debate to lower the age of voting during the opening of a working day on the National Youth Strategy 2030. For my group, this is a first-class democratic issue, and it is for a number of reasons. First, for a matter of coherence. As has already been said here, it makes no sense for 16-year-olds to be able to work or marry and yet not to vote; and note that the argument of immaturity has not been used either by those who oppose it in this House. Secondly, for the sake of justice, because young people have every right to participate in political life, as other countries such as Austria and Belgium have already understood; the latter has recently approved that 16- and 17-year-olds should be able to vote in the European elections. From our point of view, we cannot deprive almost a million citizens of political participation. And, third, for a democratic health issue. Our country needs a democracy that counts on young people, that shows them that politics serves and that changes things, and for that a fundamental step, though not the only one, is to be able to express itself in the ballot box. We cannot allow there to be a new generation that does not believe in democracy because it turns their backs on them, because because of these cracks that leave democracy, those who want to destroy it are caught. Just half a century ago 18-year-olds also had to fight for their right to vote in many parts of the world where the age was higher, twenty-one years and even thirty years in the case of women. Restrictions and limitations on universal suffrage for gender and class discrimination were also overcome. The extension of rights implies democratic progress that will remain as the power of the citizen, regardless of its electoral consequences. The purely electoralist arguments are invalid in this debate. The right to vote goes beyond the consequences of voting, as women who were tried to convince them to renounce their right to women's suffrage in themselves were well aware of the right wing. As Mr Iñarritu, Mrs Rosique and Mr Botran said, it is about expanding rights and matching obligations; not doing so means depriving one million young people of their democratic rights. It is consistent with the existence at that age of other rights or obligations which are undoubtedly very decisive for their lives, such as having a contract of employment and paying taxes, choosing their labour representatives, acquiring Spanish nationality, being criminally responsible, having autonomy in clinical decisions, emancipating, marrying, being able to recognize a child, having sexual relations, granting will, driving certain vehicles, having hunting licenses and even in some autonomous communities, such as Catalonia, exercising the right to direct political participation through the autonomous popular legislative initiative. Moreover, it does not entail a change in the age of majority or in the reduction of protection in other legal or legal aspects and is consistent with other exceptions in the legal system. The vote at the age of sixteen implies a democratic inclusion of a broad and fundamental sector of our society, would imply a higher level of institutional representativeness and an improvement in the democratic quality of our country. I repeat, it would affect a million people. Mr Oblanca, Mr Legarda, do the math, in quantitative terms it accounts for less than 3% of the electoral census and, taking into account the average participation of the underage sectors, it would account for less than 2% of the total, but it would have a very significant impact in qualitative terms. This, Mr. Adanero, would force political parties like yours... Oh, no, you don't! [[Laughter and applause]] This would force political parties to increase their sensitivity and ability to listen to the legal, economic and social demands of the youngest. We are responsible for opening this debate in Spain, as the European Union has been recommending for years with the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 23 June 2011 and the report adopted by the European Parliament of 12 November 2015. Other international institutions, such as Unicef and the Spanish Committee, have also included in their 2014 report on children in Spain the proposal to grant the right to vote to those over the age of sixteen in municipal elections. On the other hand, the vote at the age of sixteen is a historic claim of the Youth Council of Spain. We understand that this is a way to tackle the disaffection of younger people with political issues. Politics has to change and, to do so, we must work to rejuvenate it. It is a key issue against the infantileization of adolescence and adult centralism. To be in favour of voting at the age of sixteen is to be in favour of the empowerment and democratic self-protection of youth through the exercise of fundamental rights. We shall therefore vote in favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u26	Thank you. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u27	Thank you very much. This afternoon we discussed an initiative that raises us Republican Left of Catalonia which is, like so many other initiatives on the left, a lure to try to attract and empathize with a youth that is getting more and more far between their fingers. She is being defended by a very young Member, who has never contributed in her life, who has no experience in the world of work and who, in a way, has only been drinking from the honeys of politics, like some other Members or'MPs we find above all on the bench of the left. We even find those Members who have never lived in the real world, who have only lived in the political world, on the government's blue bench. [[Rumors]] And those political representatives who have never lived in the real world are precisely those who try to deceive and attract young people with those policies that they like so much to the left. [[Applauds]] A minor left - at least in the mental sense of the word - comes to try to deceive young people with proposals such as: vote since the age of sixteen and use narcotics with the legalization of Mr Errejón's cannabis, the only proposal from the left that today is thrown at young people. [[Protests]] However, they systematically deny youth their real options for development. They prevent them from forming a family; they prevent them from working by closing the industry and closing the sources of income for young people; and they prevent them from forming by deteriorating education both at school and at university level. Because where the left controls governments, education sinks. That is what they do systematically and it is important that young people listen to it. Because what the left wants is a manipulated and manipulated youth. [[Applauds]] Because what the left wants is a youth that is submissive and closed, silent and silent as the Lords of Commitment want with those young people who were sexually exploited and who are not allowed to speak, because that would be defending the youth, precisely to attack those unacceptable behaviors that truncate the future of the youth in Spain, and that is exactly what the left does not want. That's why they only throw sophisms, sophisms, deceptions and hooks, in the hope that the youth will pick up and then hook up. That's all they do. What Spain needs is work, it's cheap energy, it's a way of life and it's affordable housing for families, and that's exactly what the left is attacking and destroying. Because since the left governs in Spain, companies close every day and, if not, tell the automotive sectors in Catalonia, which every day have less future and less prosperity in their hands. The only future that this left offers to young people is the subsidy and the gifted education: if you suspend and if you do not strive, we will approve you the same; if when you reach adulthood you do not get work, do not worry, we subsidize you, but, yes, it continues to take us. That is what you want and that is precisely what we must prevent. [[Applauds]] We need a critical youth, a youth who dares to dispel that consensus that promises that everything will be free, and we need a responsible public administration, a public administration that provides means of education, that facilitates those energy systems, that provides official shelter and that protects the large families of Spain so that youth can prosper. And, of course, that it defends industry, that it defends the countryside and that it defends agriculture, because, if not, all young people in that abandoned rural Spain will be forced to emigrate to the big cities. To this day, that left no longer allows the exploitation of the rural environment, no longer allows them to hunt and no longer allows them to even approach their forests, even if they commit crimes against mother nature. Gentlemen of the left, wake up, stop lying to our youth and tell the truth: effort, work and a responsible administration and politicians who know what they are talking about. And here I say to all those young people from Spain who listen to us: Who today supports this initiative? The CUP, those who burned containers in Barcelona; Esquerra Republicana, those who threw stones at the State Security Forces and Corpses; Bildu, the ETA heirs who put bullets in the back of our young people; the BNG, which proposes to tear down the bridges that connect Galicia with Spain, and, of course - and as it could not be otherwise - Podemos, who comes and defends Isa Serra today in this initiative, who was convicted for kicking a policeman. [[Mrs. Velarde Gómez makes affirmative gestures]] Young people from Spain, these do not defend your interests: work, study and demand that responsible politicians defend Spain and that they defend our institutions, that they defend education and that they defend, of course, our industry, our field and work, that is the real future of young people in Spain. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u28	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya proposes to us this afternoon to reduce the voting age to sixteen, an initiative which is not new and which, moreover, has been rejected by 80% of Members of this House only three months ago when the amendments to the reform of the Spanish voting procedure abroad were voted on. Therefore, Mrs Rosique, do not attempt to patrimonize the feelings of the Spanish youth or say that this proposal has the majority social support because in this legislature this support has not succeeded, except that some this afternoon, by the art of birlibirloque, change their sense of vote, something that we hope will not happen. [[Applauds]] That yes, I will recognize that if something good has this proposal, coming from the Republican Left of Catalonia - which is already progress that we are not going to share - is that it is applicable to Spain and to all Spaniards, like you, and it is not only an initiative to break our territorial integrity, to weaken the State or to attack our institutions, something that you have us accustomed to. I wish that was a change of position for the future, although I fear that would be like preaching in the desert. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a general rule in our legal system, it is that the age of people has a great legal significance and affects our lives because it defines the consideration of the minority or majority for the exercise of our rights, but also for the assumption of our responsibilities and our obligations. As the Constitutional Court reminded us in 2000, it is true that minors are holders of all fundamental rights, but it is also true that they have limited exercise and full capacity to act, except in some exceptions, and these exceptions do not include the exercise of political rights or citizenship. There are exceptions in the civil sphere, in the labour sphere and in the health or administrative sphere, but not in the political sphere. And why? Because the constituents, first, and the legislator, then, undeniably wanted to unite those political rights with the majority. Thus, article 12 of our Constitution says that the age of majority is eighteen years, and the current electoral law requires in its articles 2 - which they now want to reform - and 6 the age of majority to exercise both the right of active and passive suffrage. That is why we understand that the exercise of the right to vote cannot be separated from the exercise of the right of majority because, if we do so, and because of the drag effect and the distorting effect that such a measure would have on our entire legal system, we could end up distorting or distorting the content of the institution of majority until it becomes unrecognizable or empty of content, and that is of dubious constitutionality. In addition, the 18-year age limit set by the constituent for the majority is neither capricious nor the result of improvisation, and this was intended to equate the Spanish legal system with our political and cultural environment, which we commonly call comparative law; and that environment, ladies and gentlemen, has not changed. They mention in their initiative and speeches that some countries have recognized the right to vote at the age of sixteen; it is true, but they remain a minority and the exception to the general rule. Moreover, in some cases that vote is conditional on certain circumstances, such as being married or working, and is limited only to certain local elections, which you have hardly mentioned. That the Council of Europe has recommended it? Okay, but you have also recommended that at that age you have the right to stand as a passive candidate, that is, the right to stand for election and to hold public office, and you do not even propose it. And you know why they don't? Because they know that it is impossible to extrapolate and because it would require full capacity to act and a minor does not have it. No one imagines a minor acting as mayor and carrying out his or her duties under the guardianship of his or her parents. The same applies to the right to vote. Because voting, ladies and gentlemen, is an act of sovereignty and for this it must be in full use, I repeat, in full use of its political rights, as set out in Article 68 of our Constitution, and that is only possible with the age of majority. [[Applauds]] And I say this for not entering into other elements that could have a more subjective character, such as, for example, when the degree of maturity or volitional fullness is reached, that is, when an adult is considered and the international treaties that Spain has signed, such as, for example, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, say that from the age of eighteen. What is not being argued is that they intend to accuse us of rejecting this measure for damaging us electorally. But have you read the latest CIS survey? It can be seen that they have not read it, because, if they had read it, they would have been able to prove that, despite the bias on the left that this survey has, when the CIS asks for voting intent the preferred party of those interviewed who were not old enough to vote in the past elections is the People's Party. [[Show a chart]] You're practically not even mentioned. Page 46, September 2022 barometer, political variables. [[Applauds]] So do not accuse us of rejecting this proposal for electoral reasons because we do not move by partisan interests, but by sense of duty, wisdom and responsibility. Precisely because of this, and being created a Sub-Commission for the study of the reform of the electoral law, we think that this would have been the right place to address this debate in a serene manner and with the participation of experts and jurists, because this matter would have required a process of maturity, a great political and social pact - as Mr Legarda mentioned - and a consensus that today does not exist, a consensus that is essential in an electoral law because we should not forget that any reform of our electoral law must be based on the majority agreement of this House, because we are talking about a quasi-constitutional law and a law that incorporates the rules of play of our democratic system. And one last thing, gentlemen of Esquerra. When you speak in this proposal to improve the quality of democracy you invoke in your explanatory statement as precedent and as argument of authority a law, the law of popular consultations of Catalonia, which was declared unconstitutional by our high court. What an example, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] So, before giving democracy lessons to others, they begin by preaching by example, by complying with the laws and by obeying the judgments of the courts. And that also applies to Isa Serra, because fortunately, in Spain we live in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u30	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u31	And don't doubt that, like it more or like it less, so it will remain in the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u32	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u33	Thank you, President. I want to show support for the feminist struggle of Iranian women for freedom and equality and remember that yesterday they were killed by the violence of macho violence - yes, macho violence - three women in a few hours in our country, 1161 since 2003 and 31 in 2022, one woman every week. [[applause]] The truth is that I had a different beginning of intervention, but, as I have seen that Mr Figaredo has come up at the time of talking about chiringuitos, I imagine it is because Mr Abascal was not, because, if not, he would have gotten colored. [[Applauds]] Specialist in this is your leader. Be careful not to make him an Olona as you hear him speak so of those who live from the chiringuitos. The level of debate cannot be disqualification and attack on others because they think differently. [[Rumors.-Sir Spiny of the Mounts of Simon: You say it!]] The attack on the person is exactly what you've done and that's why I put him in front of your mirror, which is what VOX practices. [[Rumors]] Mrs Rosique, labour reform did improve the lives of young people and you did not support it very much, but little. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, I was going to go into a debate earlier, but the truth is that Mr Legarda has made an intervention which is essentially in line with the arguments I share. And I tell the gentlemen of the PP not to be confused, this government agreed to open this debate in a Sub-Commission and there it will be, because that is where the reform of the electoral regime is to be done. That is what we agreed in the Government and that is what we propose. Don't confuse the method with the bottom, gentlemen of the PP. Do not confuse the vote that took place the other day in the Sub-Commission with our position. We say that we need to discuss where it is going, because this House agreed to the establishment of a Sub-Commission for the Reform of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, which has achieved a broad consensus to repeal the requested vote. Here you're doing your homework. I understand that the gentlemen of Esquerra - bearing in mind that there is no electoral law in Catalonia and that they have been debating what electoral law is like for forty-four years - are in a hurry, although they are in a hurry with us because you do not have any, but today they come here jumping that agreement of the Sub-Commission and they come to raise a debate that will have to be held in the Sub-Commission. They come with a bill calling for the right to vote to be extended to more than sixteen years old and I have seen that Esquerra registered a similar initiative in Congress in 2016, and there were elections in Catalonia in 2017, and that it was registered again in 2020, and there were elections in Catalonia in 2021. Now they're recording it again. Are you trying to tell us that there will be elections in Catalonia in 2023? How bad are things for you? [[Applauds]] They come here with proposals that then do not apply in Catalonia. That advice I see I don't have for myself. They ask for one thing and then they do the opposite. They ask for dialogue in Spain and deny it in Catalonia. They teach left-wing lessons in Spain and rule with the right in Catalonia. They say they defend the working class, but then they vote against labor reform. They say they want to protect the most vulnerable, but then vote against the plan to respond to the war in Ukraine. They ask to reform the electoral law in Spain and veto it in Catalonia, the sale. It is the only autonomous community that does not have its own electoral law and has an electoral system based on the 1978 census by which deputies are assigned, with the 1978 census, not with that of 2021 or 2022. Forty-four years without updating the electoral census! They bring this proposal here when the Government of Catalonia has not yet put forward the proposal for an electoral system that it undertook to present in Catalonia. I hope it's because they're more busy fighting Junts than they're focused on legislating. That's what I understand. And they're short of memory. Do you remember the last paper on the Catalan electoral law? In one of the amendments The CUP raised the possibility of voting at the age of sixteen. And do you remember which parliamentary groups prevented the final agreement? I tell you: one of them was Esquerra and the other was his partner in government. So don't come here and do electoralism, let alone give us lessons in democracy. You have a majority in Parliament thanks to a law that became Minister of Government Martín Villa. Gentlemen of VOX, you are happy with Meloni's results, but you must admit that it would not be a pleasure for you to be a woman who led your party and, if not, to ask Olona. [[Applauds.- Mr Espinosa of the Monterosde Simon utters words that are not perceived.]] Gentlemen of the PP, go carefully that Ayuso wants to be the Spanish Meloni with Abascal de Salvini and Feijóo de Berlusconi. [[Rumors.-Several ladies and gentlemen: Come on! Come on!]] And I'd ask them to stop lying and not be so brazen. Don't say they want to benefit Spanish households, when the first thing they do is lower taxes on those they have most. You fight to see who takes the most taxes off the rich and forgets who needs it the most. That is why the PP of Feijóo votes against the increase in the minimum wage, vote against the reform for which indefinite contracts are made, vote against pensions being revalued with the CPI, vote against increasing scholarships, vote against the drop 20 cents per litre of fuel and vote against the free train bonuses and lie unabated. [[Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived]] They lied when they said that with the minimum living income unemployment would rise, and he went down; they lied when they said that the increase in the minimum wage would rise unemployment, and he went down; they lied when they said that with the labor reform unemployment would rise, and he went down, and Mr.Bendodo lied when he said that the government donated EUR 130 million to the Bill Gates Foundation, but they are for the Global Fund against AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis, which is not owned by Bill Gates. [[Applauds]] But, of course, you are not so much of donations, but of donations. You want to know the names of some of them? They all know, and there's so many of them, I'm not going to repeat them. By the way, make public Feijóo's salary, don't hide it, please, or we'll think it's like Mariano's second salary.Rajoy. And if so patriots say they are, do not face the territories, do not lower taxes to those who have the most and forget those who need it the most, support the government's aid measures, support the tax on banks and energy, stop blocking the General Council of the Judiciary and, above all, stop telling lies. In the meantime, we will continue to defend the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u34	Thank you. - OF THE PLURARY PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FOR THE REFORM OF LAW 5/2019 OF 15 MARCH, REGULATOR OF CONTRACTS OF IMMOVABLE CREDIT. [[File number 122/000172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u35	We continue with the consideration of the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, for the reform of Law 5/2019, of 15 March, Regulator of Real Estate Credit Contracts. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. After so much theater and some comical monologues, let's see if we are able to recover serious issues like the one that started this debate or this one that presents the Galego Nationalist Block. The BNG brings here today a proposal of law for the reform of Law 5/2019, of 15 March, Regulator of Real Estate Credit Contracts, with the aim of safeguarding cooperatives with credit section that are damaged by a rule that, if theoretically thought - or that they argued - to protect borrowers of mortgage credits, ends up favoring large banking entities against social initiatives such as those representing consumer cooperatives. It has already advanced that the BNG has made it clear: we always bet to promote social economy projects that start from the self-organisation of popular sectors, in front of large companies and large banking. Law 5/2019 transposed Directive 2014/17 of the European Union into Spanish law. According to his explanatory statement, one of his objectives was to enhance legal certainty, transparency and understanding of the contracts and the clauses that make them up, as well as the fair balance between the parties. And its scope, as laid down explicitly in Article 2 thereof, is the loan contracts granted by natural or legal persons carrying out this activity in a professional way, i.e. the activity of granting mortgage loans which is carried out on a professional basis, when the lender takes part in the market for financial services on a business or professional basis or, even occasionally, for an exclusively investor purpose. The problem is that the requirements set out in this law are also being applied to credit unions, for which, unlike banking institutions or even credit unions, neither is that their core activity nor is it carried out on a business or professional basis, for a purpose, as the law says, exclusively investor. This makes mortgage lending difficult for partners because, being a complementary activity, it is a service that provides partners with better conditions than banking, because there is no profit-making interest and contributes to financing the main activities of cooperatives, including their social work. For us to understand each other, we are talking about social initiative entities that are fundamental to escape the lucrative and even speculative pursuit of commercial networks, vital therefore for many people. Unlike credit unions, other cooperatives have a social purpose unrelated to the professional provision of financial services. We are talking about agricultural cooperatives, pharmaceuticals, the sea, transporters, homes, consumers and users, associated work and services. By legal mandate its activity on the market and its relations with third parties, i.e. outside its partners and partners, can never consist of providing services of a financial nature, let alone mortgage guarantees, since, in such a case, they should have been set up as a credit union. The granting of loans by these cooperatives, which have a credit section, is an ancillary activity, which is not carried out as a professional activity and, much less, for financial purposes. Among other things, the granting of loans, as I said, is restricted by the Cooperatives Act to members, not being able to lend to persons outside the cooperative. The borrowers are therefore, at the same time, lenders and, as partners and partners, can influence the policy and the conditions under which loans are granted through the management bodies of the cooperatives. This is particularly relevant, since such cooperatives should not be subject to regulations which are intended to protect borrowers from abuses committed by financial professional entities. In this case, they are members and partners of cooperatives and, therefore, their position is at all comparable to that of any consumer when addressing a professional lender. But one of the requirements of this law is that it clashs head-on with the requirements of the Cooperative Laws. I say Laws, in capital letters, because we are talking about state law and autonomous laws, Galega in our case, which set out the conditions under which a section of credit, separate accounting, qualified technical staff, duty to audit and duty to register the accounts in the corresponding register of the Labour Council. We insist, restriction of activity to the members of the cooperative. The composition of the governing bodies of cooperatives must also have a democratic composition, and therefore any of the members of the cooperative can access and be part of these bodies, choose and be elected or elected to be part of the governing councils. If they are required to form part of the specialised and qualified technical governing councils, this criterion will be violated or prevented from continuing their credit activity for their partners. It is neither legitimate nor logical to require certain training to be part of the governing board of cooperatives. Another thing is that they must have technically qualified staff to manage the credit section, which is already under the mandate of their own implementing legislation. For your understanding, we can make a comparison that I think is enlightening. Is any specific training and qualifications required to be a minister or minister? [[A Member of Parliament: No!]] Obviously not, none, but the people who hold the technical leadership positions in the ministries. That's the point. The fact that there is this absurd confusion between a democratic governing body and the technical management of the cooperative shows that they really want to apply regulations that do not belong to them. To reduce to reality, in Galicia there are various cooperatives with credit section that are being very affected. They are especially relevant in Ferrol's land, where these cooperatives are operational and several of them are multi-service - some with more than fifty years of existence -, cover practically all the county's councils and have thousands and thousands of associated people. They maintain supermarkets, gas stations, agribusinesses or, for example, foundations for the elderly and children, in addition to the credit sections, whose activity, as a result of the law we want to amend, has been reduced to personal loans. Some were able to adapt with enormous difficulties and with the cost of saving the democratic incongruity represented by the law, and others for more than two years, almost three years, without being able to grant mortgage loans to their partners, pending this Government or the parliamentary majority being sensitive to their situation. Because, you will see, at a time of extreme social and economic difficulties - in which, by the way, there is so much talk of financial exclusion - to make it difficult or to prevent these cooperatives from making mortgage loans to the associated people is to aggravate the situation and to throw many people into the voracious arms of the bank, just the opposite direction that a government that is called progressive and left-wing should go to. The People's Party, at least in Galicia, had the opportunity to resolve this problem favourably within the framework of its competences with regulatory development. He did not, he rejected the BNG's proposals in the Galician Parliament and preferred to reproduce what was set out in the law, including the misconception of assimilation of these cooperatives to financial institutions and maintaining all improper demands. We know that, fortunately, other governments acted differently. That is why we believe that the best solution is a small correction of the law to undo the confusion or the interpretative margin - as we wish to call it - and that it should be made clear that cooperatives with credit section are excluded from the provisions of Law 5/2019 or, in any case, an amendment - for what would be necessary to take into consideration this law - allowing for specific regulation. Support for the social economy cannot be a simple slogan from which to draw political or electoral results, it must be verified in practice. It would be logical to do so by supporting the social initiatives that arise from the collective effort and the desire to improve people's lives without waiting for others to do so, by uniting and acting; it is the case of cooperatives, all of them, but especially consumer and multi-service cooperatives. But if they do not support them, at least they do not make their work even more difficult, an essential task for many people to move forward with dignity and quality of life. As I prefer to talk about what I know, at least in Galicia more and more people trust cooperatives, which are solid projects and with future. The BNG is clear: if we have to choose between the banks and the cooperatives, we will never doubt or doubt to stand on the side of the cooperativeists and the people who, with great effort, push and maintain them. We are and will always be with the popular classes and the social majority; it is a question of criterion. We hope that this will also be the view of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u37	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. With this proposal for a law the Member of the Galego Nationalist Block proposes, through a single article, to make changes to a very important law, with three and a half years of validity, which regulates the contracts of real estate credit and whose approval at the beginning of 2019 was the product of different Community directives, to which we are committed by Spain's membership in the European Union. The first thing I want to highlight is that this law that is intended to be amended is of enormous technical complexity and was the product of very intense work by the Members who participated in the Committee on Economics and Enterprise of the XII Legislature. However, despite such complexity, there was some degree of political agreement, perhaps pressed - as we were then - by a multi-million-dollar sanctioning process opened by the European Commission in the face of another delay in transposing Community rules. Ladies and gentlemen, the second thing I would like to highlight is that the whole regulation of mortgage credit contracts has an unequivocal protection vocation for those who take up a loan and also for those who are its guarantors. It also promotes clarity in the market and transparency in the terms and conditions of the contracts and in the procedures of the borrowers. This Law 5/2019 affects the economy and modus vivendi of millions of people, in the future of millions of families accessing housing, a basic good and a fundamental element for people and decisive in their quality of life. It is enough to recall that a substantial part of family income was spent for many years on mortgage payments for housing. Hence, in these weeks when interest rates have risen, there is a great deal of concern in Spanish households with variable interest mortgages. Ladies and gentlemen, the way of exceptionality or exclusion that Mr Rego Candamil has just defended this afternoon by incorporating the credits granted to the cooperative partners by the credit sections of the cooperatives to which they belong when it is not about credit cooperatives opens a way towards unequal treatment. I do not agree; anyone who wants to access a mortgage must have identical requirements. That is why there is a law that guarantees, born with difficulties in a period of social mistrust towards financial institutions and in a difficult climate because of the large number of mortgages, evictions and perpetual debts, and that is why it was adopted in terms that promote security, transparency and clarity. It is, I insist, a matter of protecting the consumer. When Mr Rego calls with this initiative for the credit sections of cooperatives to be left out of the application of the regulation of contracts in mortgage loans and specifically mentions self-credit, it is possible to counter the requirement of responsibility, seriousness and rigour in the management of each cooperative; in short, no more or less than is required for other participants in mortgage operations. Hence my vote against in this consideration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u39	Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u40	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law of the BNG that we ask for the amendment in the regulation of the contracts of real estate credit so that cooperatives with section of credit that do not have for social purpose the professional provision of financial services are exempt from the requirements of the big banks in the mortgage loans. The fact is that there are indeed cooperatives that have established a credit section to contribute to the financing of the activities of the members linked to the cooperative, by granting loans with mortgage guarantee and, indeed, the laws of cooperatives establish the possibility that any non-exclusive credit cooperative could have a specific credit section - as has been said - for its partners, with financial services and mortgage loans. In the State the credit sections are distributed mainly in several communities, such as Catalonia, Valencia, Andalusia, Extremadura Galicia and Castilla-La Mancha, and the main sector is the agricultural sector. However, since the entry into force of Law 5/2019, which regulates the Real Estate Credit Contracts, it is true that credit section cooperatives have had to meet numerous requirements in order to be able to operate, and the truth is that they have done so: they have adapted the contracts, they have been discharged on the platforms, they have fulfilled the requirement of training the staff of the credit section of the board of directors and have also adapted - it has created - the IT and administrative processes. Despite the difficulties, they have adapted as lenders, who are. It is also true - and of course we value it - that the credit sections of cooperatives have helped to mitigate financial exclusion, mainly from the rural world. Moreover, it must be said that prudence, closeness, professionalism and flexibility have been and are the signs of identity of the financial service they offer, so the autonomy of management of the sections, transparency, training, advice, the overall and unitary responsibility of the cooperative, in short, what we call governance, are essential functions - we believe - to ensure its proper functioning. It is therefore necessary that the action does not harm the partners of the cooperative or the cooperative in general. Therefore, we do see it essential and necessary to implement controls and responsible management in which the persons in charge of the section comply with the conditions of training or technical preparation in order to be able to carry out these operations of loans with full guarantee, and it is precisely by strengthening the guarantees of the borrowers that this law of real estate contracts was sought by transposing the Community directive in this respect. Furthermore, given that there are already cooperatives that have been adapting to this reality, that are meeting the requirements of the law, we understand that it would be a step backwards in this direction, and that is why we do not see at this time the need to make amendments to this law as to what is proposed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u41	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Rego, in Citizens we are not going to support this proposal for a law, but I tell you very seriously that we have studied it carefully and, moreover, we have thought about the actual content of what you proposed. We understand that what you propose is important, especially for small and medium-sized cooperatives within your autonomous community; I imagine they are in the agri-food sector, which are the ones that can most affect your proposal for a law. It intends to amend Law 5/2019, which regulates the Real Estate Credit Contracts, given the difficulty that small cooperatives have, as you have stated, to do something that they can do but that is absolutely an obligation. Because, apart from their activity or their own object, it is a possibility that allows them the law of cooperatives, which in its article 5.4 states that all cooperatives that are not credit cooperatives can have a credit section if they provide it in their statutes precisely to act - it is a possibility, not an obligation - as real credit institutions, as real banks for their cooperatives, their partners or for themselves. This is the activity that you maintain that you are not professional, but when a credit section of a cooperative that is not credit-based works, through that section, lending money and can carry out activities such as opening deposit accounts, negotiating effects, making loans financed, in this case guaranteed with a mortgage real estate, you will understand that we understand that these situations must be perfectly guaranteed by what is provided for by Law 5/2019, the regulator of Real Estate Credit Contracts, because precisely the object that has that law - and you have commented it some of the spokespersons that have preceded me - is to guarantee the rights of borrowers, the right to information, transparency, to know exactly what they are signing and what they face when they have a loan financed with a real estate of their ownership, and especially because there is a credit section if it is actually working as a small credit institution for their partners exclusively. Therefore, except for the credit sections of the cooperatives of this control or control, which in the end the only thing that seeks precisely is to give transparency and stability to the financial system itself, to that mini financial system of the cooperatives with their cooperative partners, does not seem correct to us. It does not seem right to us and, above all, it does not seem appropriate to us, because we believe that we must maintain that stability and security of the financial system itself through the transparency and legal certainty that must be given in those secured real estate credit agreements with mortgage guarantee of the credit sections for their co-operatives, because we are speaking precisely of the fact that due to lack of information or laxity in the very responsibility of the managers of those credit sections do not originate, in their case, bursts or bursts of bubbles, as I understand that you know perfectly well. Giving a credit always creates a risk. That is why the information is so important and that is why we believe that the credit sections of cooperatives should not be excluded from the criteria set out in Law 5/2019, which, although they do not act in the financial field on a habitual and professional basis, do so when they carry out such credit operations with their co-operatives. Moreover, the risks of such financing are no less. I would like to remind you that many assumptions have been made of non-financial cooperatives or that they do not act in the financial market that have gone through a hole due to the bankruptcy of their credit sections; without going any further, in Catalonia itself, and I say this because there Citizens voted in favour, and also collaborated in the drafting of Law 7/2017 of the Parliament of Catalonia, precisely because of several matters, among them, perhaps the most serious and known was that of the Agricultural Cooperative of Cambrils, in Tarragona, whose credit section broke in 2015 and finally this year, in February 2022, after having been unable to comply with its refinancing commitments, it has had to enter into a tender with creditors. The problem is that that credit section has taken over an entire cooperative. That might not have happened with adequate information from that credit section to its cooperative partners, who were the borrowers at the time. For this reason, we understand that there are regulations of the autonomous communities and, in this sense, it has been implemented, as I say, in Catalonia, but also in the Valencian Community, in Andalusia, in Extremadura and in others. On the other hand, we believe - because this is stated in its rationale, in the explanatory statement - that there is no invasion of autonomous powers, because what is laid down for real estate credit contracts in Law 5/2019 is precisely on the basis of the State competence of Article 149.1.6, 8a, 11 and 13a of the Constitution, which establish exclusive jurisdiction over commercial, procedural and mortgage legislation, the management of public registers and instruments, the bases of credit management, banking and insurance, and the bases and coordination of the overall planning of economic activity, respectively. From there, of course, it is the autonomous communities that could continue to regulate all the issues pertaining to cooperatives in their territorial sphere. We understand that the powers contained in Law 5/2019 are determined and clearly state-level. Therefore, there would also be no such invasion of jurisdiction as you claim in your bill. For these reasons and without any other kind of question that we should value, but for the facts and the legal aspect that encloses his own proposition, we say no, thinking that the correct regulation is that of Law 5/2019. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u44	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law that proposes the amendment of the Real Estate Credit Contracts Act. I would like to begin by referring to this law because it is not any law. This law, as we know, was adopted in 2019 by an obligation coming from the European Union, the transposition of a directive that obliges us, as I say, to regulate this matter. We did it after the 2008 real estate financial crisis. It is a law that was adopted, moreover, after seeing and verifying the harmful result of mortgage legislation in force during all those years; legislation tailored, as we know, to financial institutions; legislation that destroyed thousands of families; legislation that, despite being the only instrument that citizens have on foot to defend themselves, left them unprotected. Therefore, as already stated at the time, this new law was born with major shortcomings. We do not learn too much from that serious crisis. We said that it did not adequately protect consumers or mortgage debtors. It was not intended at that time to collect the payment allowance, thus returning to enable the existence of perpetual debts, which is like condemning families to financial exclusion and social exclusion if at some point in our lives we have an economic gap or we have a bad streak. Nor was it intended to regulate the limitation of the debt to the mortgaged asset, thus freeing the consumer from the debt with the delivery of the asset, which would at least avoid the ruin of life and a life sentence to exclusion. So to turn this law around, given the current situation we are experiencing, which is a combination of housing emergency, loss of purchasing power from families and rising mortgage interests, does not really seem a bad idea. That's where I leave it. Focusing specifically on the content of the proposed law, as has already been said, what is proposed is to exclude from the scope of this rule the credit sections of cooperatives which have a credit section, but whose social purpose is not the professional provision of financial services, but rather that the credit activity is complementary and is exercised exclusively for their partners and partners. They are therefore governed by the same rule as banking and financial institutions, whose purpose, as we know, is the professional provision of these financial services. This may mean that many cooperatives, small cooperatives in particular, are excluded from credit, disadvantaged alternative ways to this credit, since they cannot meet, as has already been explained, with much of the requirements imposed on them by this rule, and this can discourage cooperative economic models and, therefore, can go against something that we believe has great value, which is the social and solidarity economy. I also take this opportunity to highlight this economy, the social and solidarity economy, which has proven to have a transformative capacity towards much more just, much more equitable models of society, always putting into value the experience of all the people who make up this company, also putting into value the social benefit, environmental sustainability, decent and stable work. We have also seen that they are innovative projects, projects of the future which, moreover, are rooted in the territories. Therefore, this implies a vocation of permanence of these projects. In addition, these cooperatives show a high resilience, a greater endurance in the face of the crisis. For this reason, I believe that we must do everything possible to bet on cooperatives and also to bet that they can develop these credits, also in this case, because they are cooperatives that have a certain financial capacity to grant these credits. They are agricultural cooperatives, consumer cooperatives, small cooperatives and therefore, in some way, an alternative to the conventional way of mortgageing or accessing credit in large financial institutions or banks. We therefore agree and we will vote in favour of this consideration today. We agree that this procedure should be opened because we also believe that in some matters that have been put on the table, in that process of parliamentary amendments, if the case were to be made, the necessary safeguards should be laid down clearly and regularly to protect consumers. We therefore believe that it is compatible and that it can co-exist this consumer guarantee with granting the possibility to these small cooperatives with credit section so that they are an alternative to large financial institutions. I end by recalling that it has been the latter, that is, the banks, the large financial institutions, which in advance already know that they can create brutal crises like that of 2008. In this regard, we will agree with the consideration and the handling of this initiative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u46	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will not explain to you what the proposal is about today, those who have already spoken to me have already explained it. In any case, Mr Rego, you begin by saying that you are not going to talk about what you do not know, but the only thing you have done is a genuine exercise of ignorance, starting with the article you are presenting. Today he has explained to us very well the difference between a credit section and a cooperative; well, he has not explained it well, but he has distinguished the two figures. However, you, in the article you propose, say: '4. This law will not apply to loan contracts: (g) granted by the cooperative credit sections to their own cooperative partners' - and here comes the error - 'as long as they are cooperatives set up for a social purpose other than the professional provision of financial services'. Look, if they were engaged in the professional provision of financial services, they'd be credit unions, they couldn't be credit sections, okay? [[Applauds]] But I have seen that today you have already begun to distinguish, the one that you did not distinguish was Mrs Garrido in the exhibition that you made us. As some of those who have spoken before me have told you, Mr Martínez Oblanca, for example, this is not a rule that benefits big people, as they have said; it is a rule that benefits consumers. You don't think I'm suspicious of your proposal. And you know why not? Because I am very much in favour of deregulation and because I believe that the financial sector is overly regulated. But, of course, when they apply to you, it turns out, perhaps because in your constituency you have up to five credit sections in a province. It's a very high number. You know that it is basically in the Mediterranean arc - where there are many - and in Catalonia where credit sections break, and I tell you this because Mr López-Bas has warned you that credit sections sometimes break. That is why I cannot understand why you also require me to decafeate your controls. Credit sections sometimes break down, they're very dangerous. I tell you, I don't see it wrong for two reasons, because we are great supporters of the social economy and because we also believe that things are very regulated, excessively regulated. Nor can it be said, as has been said here, that Spanish mortgage regulation is... No, Spanish mortgage regulation was and is one of the best in the world and has allowed a lot of mortgage credit at very low cost, regardless of what happened in the crisis. We've forgotten that. You keep talking about banking crisis, maybe because you don't distinguish a credit section from a cooperative. The crisis wasn't banking, it was basically savings banks. The entities that were saved were banks, i.e. credit institutions in the form of an anonymous company, and rural boxes, working boxes, professional boxes, i.e. credit cooperatives. And do you know why credit unions and banks were saved? Because they own it, because they own it! [[Applauds]] As for savings banks, as they did not own them, politicians basically devoted themselves to assaulting them. The credit sections do not cease to be what they have explained, a small closed universe where some co-operatives deposit money and others take it on credit. Undoubtedly, if you want to lower demands, you are adding risks to borrowers. I too understand this, because of the excessive bureaucracy, of the demands that are being brought into Spain. They do not cease to be a way of eliminating financial intermediation, as you have explained, and of favouring the saver and the borrower, but you are forgetting that, precisely because of your form, those credit portfolios in the credit sections lack total diversification. They are granted in a very specific geographical area to people who sometimes engage in the same activity, sometimes if the cooperative is from a sector, and you are considering people who have the same profession and are from the same geographical area, so that the portfolio is very little diversified and the risk is high. It is true that they enjoy that health that the commercial relations of the next, that is true, to see who stops paying a credit when the depositor is his neighbor. In that sense, I see the positive side. The credit sections do not cease to be one of the best expressions of microfinance, of what were the piles of piety as well, which were loaded when the savings boxes were loaded. In the background, cooperativism reminds much of Schumacher's work - I remind you that he is an economist, not a Formula 1 pilot - which was entitled The little one is beautiful. Schumacher is a very dear author for you, on the left, until you read it. [[Laughter and applause]] They often want it very much for their manifest ecologicalism and their defense of local production for local needs as the most efficient for economic life - I say this because you, Mr Rego, in this sense have defended cooperatives - but Schumacher always defended the use of coal against oil, and already announced the creation of an international cartel, which ended up being OPEC, since production was in the hands of unsteady and bellicose countries. I mean, Schumacher fifty years ago was already a great advocate of energy sovereignty. In any case - let us conclude -, what you have brought here today is just an example of the excessive regulation that threatens us. Of course, as you refer to the five credit sections in your province, you bring this problem to the House. The excessive regulation is very clearly seen in two very specific sectors - I say this because last week interventionism was defended -. Do you know what they are? In the banking or credit institutions sector and in the electricity sector, and with these two sectors consumers are not exactly happy. What I really think is that precisely in these sectors which are so much involved, which are so distasteful to consumers, nothing would be understood if it were not because they are a magnificent place of employment for former politicians; it should not be a coincidence. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u47	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'll say it because the proposer hasn't commented on it. Thus says the Cooperatives Act, and similarly it is regulated in the autonomous laws that exist: 'Cooperatives of any kind, except credit, may have, if their statutes so provide, a credit section without legal personality independent of the cooperative to which they belong, limiting their active and passive operations to the cooperative itself and its partners, without prejudice to being able to profit from their excesses of treasury through financial institutions'. To this credit section, if it grants to its partners transactions with real estate guarantee, the Law 5/2019, Regulator of the Real Estate Credit Contracts, which is very demanding with the lenders, is currently applied, and, as they do not want to do everything that the law requires only for transactions with the partners, since they are not dedicated to it, in the end, these transactions are not carried out. We talked to one of the cooperatives, and almost none of them had ever thought about it. I must admit that it is, but none of us has said that it is up to us to save cooperatives or that it is up to us to finance cooperatives properly, as Mr Rego has told us here. I would like to thank our Agriculture Spokesman, Milagros Marcos, for his support in this management. Thank you, Mila. Surely, some of these cooperatives that they did want will have convinced the proposing group, but we see it at a risk that we must not take, and then I will come back to it. In addition, we have not found any argument in the proposal, no need and, of course, no risk analysis either. He has argued some things in his speech, but - I tell you - general concepts, without specifying. Do you want to explain to me why this bill can save cooperatives? He could have told us why this bill will allow cooperatives to finance themselves, because he has let go of it here but has not explained it to us. Do you really need a cooperative to lend mortgages to your partners to survive? Law 5/2019 provides in its article 4, (a) that this law will not apply to loan contracts granted by an employer to its employees, but we see that this is not comparable to the case of cooperatives because of the different position in which they are employer and employee, something that does not happen to cooperatives, where the lending partner would in turn be lender in its aliquot part. I'll give you an example. Do you think that a housing cooperative could finance the acquiring partners of a dwelling? It doesn't seem logical. These cooperatives are controlled by some of the partners or their promoters, and could be used unfairly for the interests of some of the partners. In the same way it could happen in other types of cooperatives where there may be control groups, something that does not happen in the case of an employer-employee, when the transactions are agreed in the collective agreement and apply equally to the entire staff in the circumstances envisaged. Not only could there be injustices within the cooperative, but, in the case of large cooperatives, if the volume of operations granted was very high, it could pose a real risk to the organization in the event of mismanagement or a financial or real estate crisis. Cooperatives are based on the values of mutual aid, responsibility, democracy, equality, equity and solidarity. This proposal does not marry that of equality, that of equity or that of responsibility, and, most importantly, the protection of borrowers, which is essentially what Law 5/2019 provides, would not be fulfilled either. This law, which was raised by the last Government of the People's Party, has been very important to our country. The regulation of real estate credit contracts plays a relevant role in economic stability and is an instrument of social cohesion. The Spanish mortgage system and, in particular, the lending and lending arrangements with real estate mortgage guarantees have made it possible for many Spanish families to enjoy property and to do so in a higher proportion than in many countries around us. That is why ensuring a safe, agile and effective legal regime to protect such operations was a requirement that not only stemmed from the obligations imposed by European Union law, but also from the undoubted benefits to a country's economy. Both transaction protection and legal certainty generate credit for individuals, resulting in economic growth. Access to property also strengthens the freedom and responsibility of individuals as citizens. In this process, access to mortgage credit is a key element in the success of Spain's ownership regime. Moreover, after the experience of the years leading up to the financial crisis and the purpose of restoring the trust of borrowers, forecasts were introduced aimed at enhancing legal certainty, transparency and understanding of the contracts and clauses that make up them, as well as the fair balance between the parties, and, honestly, I, who participated in their elaboration, must say that I believe that we have achieved it. We do not find the need, Mr Rego, for the market or for borrowers, the main recipients of Law 5/2019, and we appreciate some risks. The decision is therefore clear, we shall vote no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u49	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Taibo Monelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u50	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This proposal deals with cooperatives that have the capacity and intend to lend to their partners. Frankly, my group is surprised by this proposal, as the current Law Regulating Real Estate Credit Contracts was a transposition of a European directive and its main objectives are to enhance legal certainty, transparency, understanding of contracts and to establish a fair balance between the parties. To achieve this, among other things, there are the training requirements of the staff involved in assessing solvency and marketing real estate loans. What is requested precisely in this proposal for a law is that cooperatives do not have to comply with the law when granting credits, among other things that members of the governing bodies of cooperative societies with credit sections do not have an obligation to have any kind of knowledge or training in financial matters, and this is precisely where the Socialist Group disagrees with its proposal. Mr Rego, we must all ask ourselves the following question: What should be the priority in financial transactions, such as the granting of a loan, the agility and ease of the lender, or, on the contrary, the security of the lender, of the weak part of the contract, of which you least know and need to go into debt? When the shadow of the financial crisis still shines, we feel that this is a countercyclical measure out of place. This is not a discussion about whether or not our forms of social economy are being fostered. The Socialist Group has always shown a special sensitivity for the social economy both in terms of cooperatives and in terms of labour societies. During the bipartisan government in the Xunta de Galicia of President Touriño, of which his party, the BNG, was also a party, the social economy was promoted as never before in all its forms, exponentially, and you know it, Mr Rego, and it is fair to recognize it, just as during the socialist government in the Xunta de Galicia the networks of nurseries, day centres for our elders, new educational and health centres or free textbooks were promoted. A welfare state was consolidated which, by the way, in Galicia Mr Feijoo dismantled as soon as he could, as his dangerous friendships do not seem to be for the work of maintaining that welfare state. [[Applauds]] Allow me a moment to tell you about the situation on my land, Galicia. We are now with the worst primary care in the state, when getting a medical appointment is worse than fighting in The games of hunger in which Mr. Feijoo has plunged us. And we all know cases in our immediate environment of what happens when a acquaintance is dealing with financial products unqualified people: a shopping mall, a gas station's dependence, cases of bank cards associated with Leonian interest credit agreements, as is happening in recent times with known and so-called revolving cards, with interest rates of almost 30%, which we might even think is a usury interest, and I, of course, think so, although the case law of our Supreme Court states that these rates are not usury and has declared under law loans contracts with interest rates of 27%. Of course, you, Mr Rego, can tell me that the marabunta of toxic financial products that devastated Galicia and the rest of the state, such as preferential obligations, subordinates, ground clauses or mortgage spending clauses, were marketed through people who were supposed to have a high qualification in this matter, specifically our savings boxes, and I will have to give you the reason, yes, but it is no less true that, although late, the supervisory bodies acted and finally also did justice, so we attended the baffling spectacle of seeing the members of the boards of our boxes parade through the courthouse and even entering prisons, even if it was for a short time. By the way, the rescue of our Galician savings banks was, without a doubt, the biggest fiasco in Spain. Let us remember that throughout the State the rescue amounted to 66,500 million and that only that of the two Galician boxes exceeded 10,350 million, all accompanied by an enthusiasm and euphoria of Mr. Feijóo after a merger that elmismo sponsored and called promising financial creature. The rest of history we already know it: privatization, from which barely 1 billion euros were recovered, and 9 billion lost, which we had to pay among all citizens; 9 billion disappeared for which we would have to ask Feijóo and his promising financial creature. With all this background that I have presented to you, we understand that we cannot repeat mistakes of the past. Security and transparency must prevail in order to prevent the marketing of financial products by persons who are not adequately qualified to do so. In addition - and I tell you with affection - we believe that the instruction issued by the General Directorate of Registration and Notaryship on December 20, 2019, where a good part of what you ask for today is already regulated in this bill, has not been read. I repeat the question with which I started my intervention: What should be the priority in a financial transaction such as the granting of a credit, the agility and ease for those who give it or, on the contrary, the security of those who apply for a loan, of the weak part of the contract, of which you least know? It was your pleasure, Your Honor, that after this explanation you repeat what you are asking and withdraw it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u52	We shall now proceed to the agreement on the direct and single reading of the draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. This item will be put to the vote without debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u53	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the revaluation of wages and welfare benefits. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u54	Good afternoon, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past year more than half of the state's employees have not been paid a single euro, only 38%. From July 2021 to July 2022, in the whole of the State, the wages of the Kingdom of Spain have risen by only 2.56%. In the same period, inflation has been four times higher. This is a reality. Circumstances are exceptional, but it already comes from afar, rains on wet. Already in 2021, before the war, the Kingdom of Spain ended with an inflation of more than 6.5%, and wages did not rise precisely at that rate. Inflation is everywhere, but according to official sources, this year's real wages will fall in Spain twice as much as the OECD average. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter of complicated mathematical operations, of incomprehensible macroeconomic data, we are faced with brutal evidence. The price of what is most indispensable does not stop rising and wages are not moving. We're not talking about luxuries, we're talking about people who have needs and who don't get to the end of the month. We have to do something and we have to do it now, because the truth is that these figures hide very harsh realities - I don't know if we are aware - and the reason for the GNP is a wake-up call to say to them: Lords of the Government, what we do, especially what you do for the rise in wages will depend on the living conditions of the people who have suffered the most in recent decades. I repeat that there are already children whose main and only quality food is the one they receive in school. It's not rhetorical or demagogic, it's going beyond the coldness of numbers. The palpable reality, the day-to-day life of many people is not in the form of percentages, but rather has to do with either changing the coat or there is no coat. This is the reality, and this is what we're talking about. And we're tired of excuses and words. We talk about inflation almost as if it were a meteorological phenomenon, and when it's not an excuse, it's another: if the virus, if the bat, if I don't know what. The point is that we've been doing this for many years and this is going from bad to worse, and, look, we don't agree, it's not true, it's enough. There are economic culprits, there are institutional, business and political leaders, and politicians who can do something about it do not think they will be responsible. And that is why I encourage you to vote in favour of this GNP or to take similar measures with regard to the revaluation of all wages immediately. As I said to you, in the face of this harsh reality, Esquerra Republicana comes today to propose a very clear and concrete thing: to begin with, we raise wages by law as much as inflation has done, that the usual ones do not pay the crisis. They are not the cause of this crisis. [[Applauds]] And since they're not, they don't have to pay for it. Let me explain: lowering the price of the train is very good - especially if it works - that there are more indefinite is very good - if it could be that it was for more than three months, too - but what it is about is that people can get to the end of the month. In fact, this is a proposal for minimums, we ask nothing of the other world. We only propose that they stop lowering real wages, because it is very tricky to talk about wage freezes. If the salary doesn't move and it's all the more expensive, it's that they're lowering your salary. If they're talking about freezing wages today, they're telling you to lose money, that's all. And today we're going to hear that rising wages will make inflation worse. But-I warn before I have to listen to it - these kinds of phrases only disqualify those who pronounce them, because saying that is as much as assuming that inflation has to be paid by wage earners, and not by large companies, when it is obvious that those who generate it are not precisely the workers on foot; it is a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal does not only create economic problems, but would help to counter the coming crises, because, if we allow real wages to continue to go down without doing anything, not only will the workers lose, but also all the businesses that depend on their spending: they will lose the employee but also the fruit tree, the fisherman, the one who sells shoes, that is, the self-employed or small businesses. We have to take swift action. That is why we are proposing, in short, to increase wages according to the CPI both in the private sector and in the public sector, to increase the IPREM to increase non-contributory pensions. We have heard the United Nations today. Well, do it; we trust you to do it. And we say it openly, and we want them to go up by law, without waiting for the CEO's permission. As with the last increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, there are things that cannot be paralyzed because they do not like Garamendi, Florentino or Botín. Social dialogue is very important, but there is a CEO who has lived very well during the last twelve or fourteen years. And when these come, there won't be so much dialogue. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] Take advantage of these moments precisely to do justice, nothing more, and that people can reach the end of the month. Less dialogue, more action, and, listen, if we have to pull along the right path, our votes are at your disposal. Here they are, take them and the lives of others will improve substantially. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u55	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Saavedra Muñoz intervenes by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communo Podemos - Galicia in Communo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u56	Thank you, President. A few months ago, we recovered from the crisis caused by the pandemic, which this Government faced not as in 2008, but as a result of preventing efforts from being made only by the working class: protecting employment, raising the minimum wage, increasing social protection. Unfortunately, the war in Ukraine truncated this recovery; a war - to be said - against which European leaders did not choose to defend the security of the continent. Unfortunately, in addition to death and destruction on the ground, the evils of war reach the entire population, and inflation is one of them. Wages, therefore, are not responsible for inflation, but victims, and this problem, which affects the entire OECD, in our country affects in a special way because wages rise lower and prices higher than in other countries. And it's that the price rise is not just explained by the increase in war supply costs. The employer - it has to be said - is doubling its profits, according to the report of the Banco de España, and refuses in round to redistribute by means of salary increases, keeping the collective bargaining blocked, and this after in the crisis of the COVID all the citizenship through public money we have borne the costs of the companies through the ERTE. Of course, we share with the proposing group the concern about the suffering that inflation is causing in the families of our country and the deterioration in their standard of living. If this huge loss of purchasing power continues, it will have negative consequences not only on the well-being of families, but also on the economy and GDP growth. That is why we must certainly combat the causes of inflation and also maintain the purchasing power of wages, increasing their amount and containing the prices of goods and services. To this have been directed the proposals of the United Nations We can to reduce the high costs of energy, such as the gas cap or the modification of the fixing of electricity tariffs, measures that, after the criticisms of rigour that receive all our proposals, have ended up being assumed even by the European Union. And in that sense, there are also our affordable price proposals for a basic shopping basket or the control of the increase in rents, which will also end up opening up. This is what the Government has been trying to do by reducing some energy taxes or improving fuel costs. With regard to the interprofessional minimum wage, it has increased in this legislature since 2018 by 33.5%, and on 1 January - the Minister of Labour has said so - it will go up again, always - we insist on it - taking into account the report of the commission of experts who advise the government in this matter, the social dialogue, the social agents and the established in article 27 of the Workers' Statute, which defines the variables to be taken into account, such as inflation, the share of wages in the wealth of the country and the economic situation. The determination of wage increases must therefore be a task for social partners, trade unions and business organisations to achieve a social consensus. However, this Government - and this must be made clear - will promote social dialogue in order to encourage an increase in wages and will ensure that they do not lose purchasing power at the end of the cycle. This is what the rest of the European Union countries, such as Germany, are doing with a minimum wage rise of 15%, or Belgium with 13%. With regard to the increase in IPREM they raise, which is a necessary indicator for access to many public benefits, this Government reaffirms itself in what was expressly contained in the coalition government agreement. We have increased IPREM by 7.5% over the past two years, we will continue to do so and we will improve the update by means of objective mechanisms. We have tabled an amendment to this GNP which reflects the commitment to maintain the purchasing power of wages. We have not been accepted at the moment, and in principle we will not support this GNP. And it ended up making it clear that we are working for a just way out of this crisis, that we are proud that our tax proposals to the rich, to the extraordinary benefits of energy and to the banks have opened up. We understand that that's what needs to be done to get those who have the most to tie their shoulders, and that it's not just the workers...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u57	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u58	... in this country those who make the effort to save our economy. We will continue to work in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u59	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Oria López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u60	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, I am surprised at the presentation of this initiative; an initiative which, with all the respect that you know I have, seems to me to be opportunistic and demagogic. And I am surprised that some of the issues you raise have already been the subject of debate and rejection in this House. I am surprised that each and every one of the measures you raise in your GNP are issues within the framework of social dialogue and collective bargaining. And I am surprised because it is an initiative that signs and defends a Member who has a brilliant career in the trade union world, so you are aware, ladies and gentlemen, and you in particular, that what you are asking for today cannot be carried out as you propose. Ladies and gentlemen, collective bargaining is the natural space, the appropriate area where trade unions and business organisations agree on working conditions, where wages are one of the most important. And it has been this government that has recovered a collective negotiation that was curtailed by the reform of the People's Party in 2012. Of course, it is an employment reform that was approved in spite of you, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, who voted against. And thanks to that collective negotiation and social dialogue, this Government, with the help of the social partners, has succeeded in reaching agreements that have undoubtedly improved the lives and well-being of the workers in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, you know well and know first-hand that wage fixing is not the responsibility of the Government, which cannot be done with a rule of law. The only wage set by the Government is the interprofessional minimum wage, and that is where this Government, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, has acted, by the hand of the Minister of Labour, Magdalena Valerio, at that time and, later, by the hand of Yolanda Díaz, the current minister, raising that interprofessional minimum wage from 735 euros to 1000 euros today. The United Nations partner Podemos said: it has risen by 33.5%. And with a view to 2023, the Committee of Experts has already been mandated to make a proposal - yesterday the Minister of Labour announced that in December she will meet with the various social partners - so that on 1 January 2023 there will be a new salary and a new increase in the inter-professional minimum wage to reach that 60% of the minimum wage mandated by the European Social Charter. As for workers in the public sector, they are well aware that wage increases are negotiated within the General Bureau for the Negotiation of Public Administrations, and their agreements are reflected in our basic regulations, in this case, the General Law on State Budgets. But in this proposal I'm going to stop a little bit because it's difficult. You suggest that we create a contingency fund to pass it on to the autonomous communities and that you pay that rise of public employees. I imagine that you, who are government in Catalonia, are thinking of raising salaries to public employees on that basis. [[Applauds]] But I'm taking him to my autonomous community. That is, we create the fund, we give it to my autonomous government, the Andalusian, so that Moreno Bonilla will raise the salary to the Andalusian employees and, in the meantime, reduce taxes to the rich in my community. Ladies and gentlemen, we're in a bit of a hurry. This is simple and plain. [[Applauds]] He will understand that in this way we cannot share the loss of negotiating capacity and the defence of social dialogue, collective bargaining and consensus. Certainly, our State is a social State; a social State which has been dedicated by the Government of Spain to shielding and strengthening in these years of government, taking so many measures that go for families, workers and women workers, and to making it more manageable the very complicated situation that has affected us: first, a pandemic and, today, the consequences of a crisis. I'll briefly remember just one. Measures have been taken in various markets: electricity, gas; fuel cents have been increased, reaching all the men and women in this country; rent prices have been reached; VAT on electricity tax has been lowered; butane candy has been frozen, and it could continue with many more measures. Up to EUR 15 billion has been set up by this Government to make the difficult situation facing the men and women of Spain more manageable. And I could keep reporting a lot more. Ladies and gentlemen, be sure that this government will continue to work towards a strong welfare state, making public policies that guarantee social justice and equal opportunities for all, making decisions and also taking into account the development of economic and social events. We have tabled an amendment which we have given them the opportunity to negotiate. We've been told no; we'll see what happens from here to Thursday. I conclude with a few words from my dear colleague Magdalena Valerio, from whom I learn so much in my day-to-day here, in this House, at his stage as minister: Faced with authoritarian imposition, social dialogue and also political dialogue, and hand stretched out to move forward and not retreat.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u61	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u62	Works are love and not good reasons, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u63	Thank you. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u64	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. We will support the non-law proposal because we share both form and substance. I think the form is important, and the form alludes to us, it challenges us now. And the now - it has been pointed out very well in the presentation of the non-law proposition - is a now distressing for millions of people. It is a time marked by the rise in prices, by the continuous and systematic increase in the consumer price index. Today the OCU, the Consumer and User Organization, said that we were facing the inflationary rise, the rise in the highest consumer price index in the last thirty-four years. Therefore, nothing to object to about the form because, moreover, this price rise has not been accompanied in any way by an increase in wages, but above all and fundamentally we will support it because we agree on the substance. We are surprised that someone is surprised that Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia presents this, because this measure, along with many other economic and social measures, were registered in this parliamentary seat within a draft that is called a shock plan of economic and social measures that included economic, social and, in this case, energy measures, signed Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia and Euskal Herria Bildu. It was as simple as looking at them, because many of the initiatives contemplated in the non-law proposal come from there. In other words, there was the necessary rise in wages to match the consumer price index. Here also came the need for the increase of IPREM. Moreover, we were planning an IPREM increase of 7.4% and we said-when it was done this inflation was not yet known - that if it was higher, it would be revised and updated by the end of 2022. So, nothing new. The surprising thing is that someone is surprised that there are papers that enter this Congress and it seems that they are not read. But there was also talk of reformulating what has to do with the category of vulnerable person, because what you could do with money before, can't be done now because it has increased the price of things and, therefore, the vulnerability of people has grown. There was also talk of banning the disengagement clause for employers in the agreements in order to get rid of what had to do with wage increases. You see, nothing new, but we keep hitting on the same thing. We will also support this because the initiative of the Republican Left of Catalonia contains something that we have also discussed many times in this House, and we will continue to do so, despite criticisms, which is what it has to do with not being treated as unequal, because I do not think anything more unjust in terms of law. It is not the same situation and the prices that live in each autonomous community, and what we ask is for the autonomous communities to be allowed to adapt, adapt and modulate both the interprofessional minimum wage and what has to do with the consumer price indices to the reality that we live, so that the conditions of our citizens are not devalued. This is to recognize the plurality or effective plurinationality of the Spanish State. The rest are empty words. This would be to begin to recognize that we live in a plurinational state, that we are willing to be supportive of all and all, but respecting what each of us and each of us is. And we will continue to be supportive, but we will continue - no one can be surprised - to fight for ours. I also think that there is something we should bear in mind. In this House it is often said that we do not have to repeat - and in fact will not be repeated - the way out of the previous crisis. So let's look at the exit sequence from the previous crisis and see that maybe we're not as far away as we'd like to be or as we say we are. Because, what happened in the previous crisis? An increase in inflation. What followed him to that? A loss of purchasing power. Do you notice the pockets of citizens? I think so. What followed that? A wage freeze. Doesn't that sound like what they now call the income pact or the wage freeze for the workers of the Spanish State and also of Euskal Herria? What followed him? A reduction in consumption, because people couldn't spend what they used to spend. And what brought that reduction in consumption? For the fall of industrial and economic sectors. That was the crisis of 2008 and that is what unfortunately we can repeat again. We were also told then, and it is said now, that one cannot intervene. Yes, you can. If the interprofessional minimum wage is regulated, why can't more be regulated in the labour market? It was also said that one could not enter the energy sector and, even in the wake, it has been done; nor in banking, and it will be done. But we are also always referred to the income pact. For us, the income pact, as it stands, is nothing more than an understatement of the wage freeze and the shielding of business profits. Better talk about a pact for decent wages and sufficient benefits. And, of course, the continuous mantra of social dialogue had to emerge. To make it clear to me, is everything that goes with social dialogue good and everything that goes without social dialogue is bad from now on in this House and from the beginning of the legislature? Because there will be votes and we will see if there is any social dialogue for what the Government is doing. I'll finish with a question. It seems that today the whole of Europe is looking at Italy with suspicion and fear, and it is logical. There is probably someone who thinks that the failure of what has happened in Italy to the left is that we have looked at minorities. I think it's a pretty wrong analysis and a snag. I think what happened to us is that we've been on the defensive a long time. A long time ago, in this rostrum, we said and proclaimed that we would not pass; I believe that we should pass from that phase, from that screen, and pass from the no pass to we will not stop. That's what can make us powerful on the left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u65	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u66	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Pick it up on. Well, the truth is, I have to tell my dear friend and colleague Jordi Salvador that I was surprised by this non-law proposal because I think that somehow it is isolated, it moves a little away from its usual line. These are three measures that you and your group are proposing to us. The first relates to the updating, normally with a law rank, of wages which do not exceed three times the inter-professional minimum wage. The second concerns the creation of a fund to deal with the increase in the CPI of public employees, a fund charged to the general budgets of the State. And a third to be legislated to bring IPREM closer to amounts equivalent to the poverty line of each autonomous community. Okay, I'll start with the last one. Apart from other debates, even of a competitive nature - which I will quote - this paragraph is the only one in which we fully agree. I will not fail to point out that, as happened and we have claimed with the interprofessional minimum wage, the fixing of this index should be in the hands of those who know the social reality best, who are the autonomous communities. Leaving him isolated from it is a mistake. Why? Because IPREM, as you know, was born as a reference parallel to the interprofessional minimum wage and to be used as an index for the granting of aid, subsidies or even unemployment benefit. What happens is that, however, it has become almost an incentive to poverty, because its recipients cannot survive with that amount. Yesterday, in the appearance of the First Vice-President and Minister for Employment, reference was made to this issue precisely in order to help as a factor of social justice and understanding that the IPREM should be strengthened, updated and possibly brought closer to the interprofessional minimum wage. That is an attitude that, of course, we will support at all times, both in the form of GNP and if it comes also in legislative form. If that were the only object of the proposal, we would help it, we would vote in favour, but it turns out that it is not accompanied by two others who, with all due respect, seem somewhat strange to us, especially the first one coming from you, which is, as I say, a trade unionist in the vein. And that is because I think it is somewhat unheard of to propose that it be a legislative initiative and that, moreover, it be the Executive who will replace those who, in Title III of the Workers' Statute, are called upon to intervene to set wage conditions within the framework of collective bargaining. I think it's a mistake on your part, but it's that you don't get married, as it were, Mr. Salvador. I am not going to make any mention of the proposed framework referring to the fact that up to three times the interprofessional minimum wage can be made. What I do think, and I have to say to you, is that doing so would set a very dangerous precedent for the area of collective bargaining and for setting working conditions in all areas. I repeat, this alteration is not based on the negotiating framework and it is a precedent that we should avoid. I shall then mention the last question referred to in the second paragraph. We do not understand that those who preach respect for the power of self-organization of their administrations demand the creation of a fund from the general budgets of the State to replace the power of self-organization and the setting of the conditions of their public employees. I understand, or would understand, that some kind of budgetary allocation should be requested so that the autonomous communities can meet their obligations, whether in the matter of public service or in another, precisely because economic conditions so require, but to make a pre-determination from the State of what must be determined by those who have the power of self-organization, who have the power to designate and determine the conditions of their public employees, I believe it is also unheard of, unacceptable and another very dangerous precedent. To be done by a group like yours seems very strange to me, Mr. Salvador. Neither does the house. That is why, and with some disgust, because you know that in these things we usually coincide quite, I have to tell you that we are going to have to vote against. We shall see what happens to the compromise amendments that have been proposed to you, but unless there is one that can convince us, you know not only the meaning of the vote but the foundations on which I am sure we will discuss again. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u67	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u68	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you did not set up a company, that you did not have to hire staff and that you did not have to pay a salary in your life. No one doubts that inflation today is our country's main problem. From our parliamentary group we have been talking about it and its harmful effects on the economy since last autumn, and we were the first to present to the Government measures that, in our view, could help to combat this progressive loss of purchasing power to families. In February we already asked you to deflate the IRPF and certain tax cuts, and this same week you will have to vote a partial deduction on the income to compensate for the increase in mortgages for the rise in rates. Inflation is the tax of poverty, which always punishes those who have less. Inflation is the mother of unemployment and the invisible thief of the people who save. Current inflation is a global phenomenon against which governments can do little to curb it, but they can do much to alleviate its impact on Spanish households. We have been demanding an income pact for months in the face of inflation. You said it: inflation we have to pay everyone, everyone. Businesses, families and public administration must share the burden of the crisis and secure their shoulders. By the way, also the pensioners, to whom the Government and the People's Party always draw from the equation for pure electoral revenue. This is the reality, Mr. Salvador. An income pact that curbs the inflationary spiral that will undoubtedly occur when wages rise according to inflation, because it would raise the production costs that would in turn raise prices and then again wages, and so on to infinity and beyond. Of course stopping the inflation wheel is expensive and unpleasant - here there are no miracles or balms of Fierabras that are worth it - but in our hand it is to avoid erroneous economic policies that, far from stopping, feed it more. Our job, everyone's, is to protect the most vulnerable households, without stimulating demand. Therefore, it is inexplicable the initiative that you present, what you also say is that it is minimal and proposes to revalue wages by law and to be revalued in full with the variation of inflation, with the year-on-year variation of the CPI, so, to the mad. Why not two or three times? This is like watering a burning house with gasoline; that would be more responsible than this proposal. If we looked for ways to fuel inflation and ensure that it continues to rise without a roof, this would certainly be the most efficient initiative. In addition, you and your manic speeches about supposed mass business surpluses, those guilty and irresponsible ones that you mentioned, those wicked rich people who, mercilessly, do business with people's sweat, carelessly take care that there are differences, for example, in the business sectors between geographical areas or in terms of business margins. For example, electrics are getting a benefit from rising prices, yes, but it is that there are many industries that see how their business margins are feeling, that is the same report from the Banco de España that has mentioned his lordship of Podemos. You make a table, a homogeneous rise in wages, without taking into account these geographical or sector specificities and the risk that it would pose to the maintenance of employment, so also to the mad. And you - they have already told you here - who have trade unionist blood in your veins, you who so much defend the things of collective bargaining, here you despise it completely and you do not want it to be the employers and workers who come to an agreement or an income pact. But do you know what's funniest, Mr. Salvador? That it is not only your double standard with the autonomy and powers of the administrations, but that, no more or less, you are asking that the increases in the salaries of autonomous public employees be financed from the general budgets of the State. You should explain this well, because I don't know if you're a little lonely or completely independent, I don't know if you're part-time or full-time independenceists. If the Generalitat wants to raise the salary to officials a 5, a 10 or 15%, it is free to do so, but it is from its own resources, because to spend millions on propaganda it does not hurt them to squander public money. And of course we will vote against this unacceptable performance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u69	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. In a minute it will not give me time to talk about the causes of this spiral of inflation, nor about the global measures to tackle it which, in any case, the BNG has defended and explained on many occasions. That is why I am going to focus on the proposal, a proposal that the BNG is going to support because it seems to us that it is reasonable and necessary. If we do not proceed to this rise in wages according to inflation, we will be further impoverishing the working class. PSOE and Podemos came up here to talk about the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage. They assumed 3.6%, but inflation in the previous year was 6.5%. This meant that the people who charge less, not only did not see their purchasing power improved, but they lost almost 3% - 2.9% - from one year to the next. That can happen or will happen, if we don't fix it, with wages. Every time you talk about an income pact, you have to get your hands on the wallet because we know it means sacrificing the income from work to save the income from capital.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u71	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u72	That's not the way. Not leaving anyone behind means acting in line with what is proposed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u73	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u74	Thank you very much, President. We talk about inflation and we talk about wages that inflation eats. Therefore, I want to begin by giving a recognition to a shop in the neighborhood of Benimaclet, Ultramarines Javi, regented by Maite and by Javi, who have made a basket of twenty-eight products at 29 euros. Solidarity actions like these reconcile us with humanity and make me proud as a Valencian and as a citizen. Of course we will vote yes. Inflation has made it necessary to make these initiatives or any other, with all the nuances you want, with all the uts and ets you want, but initiatives such as those of Mr Salvador or those of Ultramarines Javi are necessary. By the way, the big chains could imitate the Javi Ultramarines. I'm sure they'd do the workers a good. We believe that support should be given to any initiative for those who are experiencing it the worst, for those who are experiencing it the worst, and not to initiatives such as that of the People's Parliamentary Group on Heritage Tax, which is precisely helping those who have the most, Robin Hood the other way around. Do you know what really leaves more money in citizens' pockets? No, it's not touching the IRPF and VAT, it's raising wages. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u76	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr.Savior, the truth is that when you started the presentation of the non-law proposal by appealing to children in canteens and to have or not to have shelter, I believe that you have started a path of difficult return and, of course, we could no longer share much of the approach that was taken. Because inflation, whether it comes at the end of the month or the price of light not only affects employees, as you point out, but affects everyone. In the PNL, employees are referred to in Article 1.1 of the Workers' Statute. If we have to talk about these things and we have to talk seriously, we would also have to talk about retirees, dependents or pensioners or self-employed, and in the self-employed this proposal is a real shot at the foot, because they also have employees. We believe that the problem is much more global than raising wages to workers by law, because if we have to address the issue of inflation, inflation attacks everyone and virtually under the same conditions. In this scenario there is another fundamental problem, the appeal to social dialogue. It turns out that social dialogue is the big bet. You referred to whether you lived better or if you lived worse in past times, when there was no social dialogue. It defends social dialogue, but it says: Now, as I am not interested in it, social dialogue does not take it into account, because now I am interested in it being approved by law, with which there is also a contradiction here that does not help us to understand the will of the proposition. We therefore do not share the path. Moreover, if you believe that this is the way forward, perhaps the best tool is not a proposal not of law to the Government, but the general budgets of the State and the negotiations that they can make in just two months. If they think this is the way, they may be better off doing it through budgets than in a non-law proposal. On this path they will not find us because even if they have good faith or good intention the non-law proposal, the truth is that we believe they have serious problems in the background and in the form of their approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u77	Thank you. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Salvador, good afternoon. Interesting PNL, despite the obvious legal limitations. The attitude of this Government towards the undoubted lack of resources of all Spaniards is of absolute indifference. I do not know what Mr Hortalà, the former secretary general of your group, would say to this GNP, but I can imagine it and so can you, but the GNP that we are dealing with is not correct in the diagnosis or in the remedies, but simply to see the obvious symptoms. Workers are losing purchasing power in the face of government indifference. In this sense, it would seem reasonable to join the proposed measure with these legal limitations - it spoke in theoretical terms - because the Spanish, above all, the most humble and the middle classes deserve especially not only empathy but the obligation to put all the tools at our disposal to achieve what we have always defended in the VOX Parliamentary Group: decent wages, fair wages and what in justice corresponds. However, the measure obviouss some issues, beyond the legal limitations, which you know very well and which would set a very important precedent for intervention. Wages, as you say, have risen by 2.56%, and as a result and given the attitude of the indifferent government, which has refused to deflate the tables of the IRPF, the worker has not lost only the purchasing power that results from subtracting from inflation the rise he has experienced but more. In other words, the disposable income of workers has risen less than 2.56% because of the non-correction of the bases and the progressive nature of the tax in the face of government indifference. Also, a rise in wages with the formula that it proposes - in addition to with law rank and already knows that that is very difficult - would generate second-round effects. In other words, it could lead us to a spiral of price-wage-price increases that would keep inflation high for a long time and that must be avoided by all means, as it could not be assumed by employers in all cases, thereby increasing unemployment and closing down the business. And the self-employed, will have 10% more income? And will self-employed people and SMEs with one, two, three, four or five workers have a 10% higher income in order to be able to take on that 10% increase? And thus the proposal, as described, could generate comparative grievances in the second point, which would affect distributive justice because it seeks to regain the purchasing power of all public workers. For this reason, it would be logical - and I propose this to you - that the fund that you propose should be nourished by unnecessary ideological and political spending savings that are carried out, through an analysis of the efficiency of public spending to see where it is wasted. In this we can help you a lot from VOX, no doubt. [[Applauds]] Moreover, absurd situations could arise, as defined in the proposal, such as the fact that workers with wages little more than three times the inter-professional minimum wage were overpaid by others who paid a little less than three times the inter-professional minimum wage. If we do not deflate the tax bases of the IRPF, the disposable income of the benefitted workers would rise less than inflation anyway. If we want to increase the disposable income of workers - and in VOX we do want to do so - without excessively increasing wage costs in order not to produce unemployment or boost the inflationary spiral, we must look for other solutions. In this way it would seem reasonable, despite the government's indifference, to deflate the tax bases of the IRPF, to reduce so-called contributions of the worker, to reduce the so-called contributions of the employer and to incorporate such reductions into the gross payroll of the workers on discharge at the time of entry into force, without prejudice to other formulas that our group is going to propose shortly regarding the deductibility of the business share in the corporation tax. In short, ladies and gentlemen, wage increases, yes, of course, yes, but not so. Elie Wiesel, Mr Zaragoza - I don't know where Mr Zaragoza, who was very impetuous today - said that the opposite of love is not hatred, but indifference. And that's what the government has done: act indifferently with Spanish workers. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u79	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cabezón Casas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the rise in prices and the rising cost of living is leading families and workers to an unsustainable situation. The President of the People's Party has already proposed to the Executive to negotiate a plan to deal with inflation. We asked the Government to coordinate an agreed and responsible income pact and a tax cut so that middle- and low-income citizens could arrive at the end of the month and be returned some of what they have overpaid. And what has the government done in the meantime? To look elsewhere, to insult the People's Party, to criticize the proposals we have made, to announce new taxes and to wait for inflation to fall. Two different models, that of the People's Party, which is committed to agreement and negotiation and to making proposals for the good of the workers, and that of the Government, which only dialogues and gives way to the independence populists and is unable to realize what is happening in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, almost one in three Spaniards is at risk of poverty or exclusion and Spain is sadly at the head of the eurozone countries with the Okun poverty index, an indicator that combines the unemployment rate and the inflation measured by the CPI. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the merit of the government, the government that passes from the people: to lead the rankings of poverty and misery. [[shows a graph]] Only Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia overcome us; this is the great merit of the Government. But, of course, it is also true that this is the mark of the PSOE's house because talking about misery is talking about socialist governments because whenever the Socialist Party has ruled, the rates of misery have risen in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that since the Falcon and rolling series we do not appreciate what is actually happening to the Spaniards. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how did we get here? Well, it is true that the international context has not helped, but it was the Government of Spain that refused to take action in time, despite the warnings made by the People's Party. It has taken six months to copy some of the measures we have proposed to alleviate the savings of families. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, Spain is today the OECD country with the greatest loss of purchasing power of its workers. Are you going to hold the government accountable or not with these? Those who have brought us here with the wrong recipes claim that with the useless measures they have supported, it is those who are taking us out of this and that is why, Mr de Esquerra, we cannot support this initiative. If they really want to alleviate the unsustainable situation of many Spaniards, they convince the Government to continue to copy the measures proposed by Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Copy, because you're only right when you copy, gentlemen of the government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra and the left, we will agree that what matters to the workers who are in the interprofessional minimum wage is how much money they have left at the end of the month. Let's give an example. If the employer makes an effort and raises the interprofessional minimum wage to his workers, and then the taxes arrive and the government does not deflate the IRPF, he will withdraw part of that wage increase and the result will be that the worker will have less money in his pocket. It seems more logical that there is an effort on the part of the government, first, to lower taxes, and once it does this and citizens have more disposable income, that companies can also make that effort and raise wages. Gentlemen of Esquerra, I recognize that Mr Sánchez not only listens to them, but rather obeys them. That is why I invite you, if you really want to help the families of this country, to propose effective measures to Sánchez. They propose to deflate the IRPF tariff in the first three stages - by the way, the Valencian Socialists today will agree on this proposal and will insult themselves after what Ximo Puig has announced -. We also invite you, Mr de Esquerra, to propose to establish a personal and family minimum, which is specific and temporary, which decreases as income increases. They also propose that the Government set a negative tax for persons unprotected by the increase in CPI in labour income and lower economic activities. They also propose to lower VAT on basic products in the shopping basket, such as meat, fish, oils, water, preserved products, women's hygiene products, diapers, from 10% to 4%, and also that they propose to compensate you for the cost of this measure with increased collection, and also with a reduction in unproductive public expenditure. That is to think of the Spaniards, gentlemen of Esquerra. That would be thinking of the Spaniards, gentlemen of the government. So, for the People's Party, raise wages? Of course, but to climb them without harming citizens and those who create jobs. The People's Party has always gambled for more and better jobs and for more and better wages...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u81	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u82	It's over. That's where you'll find the People's Party, because that's where the People's Party has always been. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador i Duch, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u84	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u85	He won't take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u86	We then proceed to discuss the motion following an inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the rise in interest rates, its impact on Spanish households and the measures the Government is taking to alleviate it. For the author group of the initiative and for the defense of the motion, it has for Mrs Muñoz Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start my speech by referring to the change of position that Mrs Calviño, the first vice-president, had last week in less than 24 hours, with everything that entails for the reliability and confidence of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to the bandages and corrections of this government, but I believe that in the last plenary I have not seen it before: you have invented the self-amendment to the whole. The Own Mrs. Calviño spent in twenty-four hours denying the severity of the rise of the mortgages and disregarding the measure of help to the families, which announced the president of my party and myself in the inquiry, saying that it was propaganda to go on TV, to say hours after they were going to study our proposal. I understand that, if you are open in the Government to study our proposal, you will not vote against something that seems to you, at least, reasonable. I do not know if you realize that you spend more time publicly rejecting the events of your partner in government than studying in depth the opposition's proposals in something as important, in something as important, as the mortgage of families. It's like you guys are wondering if it makes up for you to go on with your fellow travelers. They have so enjoyed our action that they have passed from denying and accusing us of wanting to go on television to say that they will study it carefully and copy it today in the Valencian Community, because Mr Puig, in my community, has just announced today a tax deduction to combat the rise of mortgages as a star measure of the general policy debate. So I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that they voted in favour of ours. We don't care if they copy us and they don't quote us. Take our action, or take many more, because it is a compliment to our work, to the work of my parliamentary group. But, above all, I and my group care that they do and apply it well and soon, because what really matters is that these measures serve and do good to the Spaniards, not who invented them or who proposed them. I have no doubt that if you get to work and engage in this, that will be the case. What we propose from Citizens is that the families affected by the increase in their mortgage can deduct part of this rise in interest on their income statement; something of common sense, easy to implement and limited in time, without intermediaries, without bureaucracy. This is an aid to citizens waiting as water in May that can also be eased in mortgages. As you know, our deduction is extraordinary and temporary: it would apply to 25% of the amount of the increase in mortgage interest payment and would be limited to a maximum of EUR 400 per year. In short, what we are proposing here is a temporary and timely relief, I believe fully justified, by the exceptional economic circumstances in which we find ourselves. We trust that the rest of the groups in this House will understand the extreme and urgent need for many families to have this tax relief. This extra 150 or 200 euros per month you will have to spend on the mortgage adds to the extra effort to pay the bill for the light, fill the car deposit, return to school this September or make the purchase of the month. This savings, this tax relief can assume the drop that breaks the budget of many families to arrive at the end of the month, if we do not take it into account. With a government that will close the year with the record of collecting the history of this country - 22 billion extra at the end of August only because of the effect of inflation -, that has more charges to finger than any other government of democracy, it is unthinkable - and if they rush me, indecent - that it does not have a small gesture with the Spanish families living with the water around the neck. The inflationary spiral is affecting everyone, those who signed their variable mortgage with increases, as we have seen, of up to 200 euros, but also those who live on rent, who are seeing how the owners are raising prices to compensate for the cost of mortgages. This government's move to limit rent contract revisions to 2% was very good on paper, but apparently it is having no effect, because many families are seeing their rent suddenly rise, and paying the mortgage already costs 400 euros more. It is clear that something is failing to contain the price crisis and the most effective way to help families. That is why I encourage you to at least this time listen to the opposition and take the measure we propose to you today. If they don't do it out of pride, at least they do it for the Spanish families. Copy more of our liberal proposals, which you will already see how it will go well with you, but above all with the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u88	Thank you. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the face of an economic and social drift that, as has just been recalled, is suffocating the whole of Spanish society, the extraordinary measures that alleviate the growing pressure that has been brought about by the rise in variable interest rates on mortgage loans on habitual housing are essential. This motion seeks to reorient the Government in a line that seeks to alleviate an extraordinary burden for all Spaniards who have to pay their mortgages monthly and who, together with the dearth of the cost of living, the increase in the shopping basket, the historical energy prices and the problems of companies in updating their employees' salaries, form a cocktail for which it is urgent to apply remedies. The protection measures that the Government has been adopting to overcome the socio-economic effects of the pandemic, the rise in inflation and the increasing impacts of the war have proved to be totally inadequate. Hence the need for this proposal which Mrs Muñoz has defended, which, on the other hand, contrasts with the insatiable voracious collection of the Government and its incorrigible vocation to spend, spend and spend without modesty, for not referring to the tax escalation in the war declared to the autonomous communities managed by the People's Party, and some by the Socialist Party, which give priority to better managing resources and stopping the blood on the citizens' pockets. In short, the extraordinary and temporary deduction of the income tax for natural persons is relevant under the conditions and terms explained by the Member of Parliament for Citizens and I will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This motion serves two things: the first, to say that we agree with that tax deduction for the rise of the Euribor, and the second, also serves to highlight and unmask the populism of the left. [[The lady]] Imagine that now in the Government there was no left. We would have all the parties - PSOE, Esquerra, Podemos - in the streets of Spain saying that when they come to govern they will guarantee a fair housing for the Spaniards and they will guarantee that the young people can access a housing. Well, you're the government of Spain. And what's the reality? The reality is that for the first time in our history we have seen how in the under 30s the rent rate is higher than the property rate; we have seen how the rents, however high you put into legislation that is useless, have increased by 8% and in the big cities by 40%; we are seeing how young generations have to save for thirteen years in order to be able to pay for access to a home. And you are the Government of Spain! What are you doing? Nothing. The void. The most absolute wear of cheap populism they practice when they are opposition. Fortunately, they will soon be able to return to their specialty, which is the megaphone and the banner, because very soon they will cease to be the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't think it was a problem for the left to go back to the streets. I don't think we should ever abandon them, even when they're in government. I understand that this seems to be a problem for those who have never stepped on the streets and for those who have a contractual relationship with a party to which they no longer belong and for which they will cease to occupy the seat. There you are, there you will probably feel the loneliness of the streets. Adhering to the proposal, believe me that I do not think this is the one that is holding back the inexorable and continuous decline of Citizens. And I do not think it will be because, while pointing out a problem that is obvious, that mortgages are going to punish the family and household savings of millions of people - 1 400 000 households, that is, quite millions of people - the solutions they pose are wrong, they are wrong. True it is - so that there is no doubt - that you are free to choose the path you consider most appropriate, you could almost say that you are liberal to always choose the wrong path. But I'll tell you why I think you're laying the wrong path. In short, what you propose is that the state should continue to weaken further, even in this increasingly exceptional and harsher and agonizing circumstance for the people, and that, in the meantime, it should continue without touching the elites, it should continue without touching the great fortunes of this state. I'll explain it to you now, that is, it's not just redundant or big words. I will explain to you why through your own initiative. You're proposing to lower taxes. In short, the solution they have found to cope with the reality of the rise in interest rates caused by the European Central Bank, for the greater glory of the private banks of the whole world and of the Spanish State, without any doubt, is to lower taxes, which is to thin the state's collection, which in turn would have to have a factor of redistribution, of distribution of wealth, of which we say many times that there is wealth but we have to divide it. What you propose is that you have less money to distribute, lest wealth be overspended and this unequal system in which so well goes to a few so that so badly goes to many and many. And why do they raise this? Well, it's nothing new. If you raise your eggs and milk, what do you propose? Lower taxes. If fuel or electricity goes up, what do they propose? Lower taxes. If mortgages go up, as is the case now, what do they propose? Lower taxes. Do you ever plan to attack the large distribution chains that are lined up with this rise in the prices of eggs and milk? No, no, Do they plan not to have to sell farmers at losses as these large distribution chains force them? No, we have to protect the elites. With fuels and electricity, do they ever impose more stringent, permanent - not temporary - taxes on electric oligopolies? No, the elites must be preserved. Are you planning any kind of measure in this case and in your initiative that would force banking entities to do something? No, banks must be protected, because it seems that the one who won 25 billion euros last year - this year will be much more because of the rise in interest rates - is something that does not have to worry the citizens of the Spanish state. They seem to have to be glad that the BBVA, Santander or any other banking entity is doing very well. I guess because they're branded Spain, because they're IBEX 35 companies, and if they win, we all win, like the worlds. But it turns out this isn't how it goes. His initiative is a reality that once again means that the State continues to face expenses, and it is good that he redistributes wealth, so that others do nothing even if they continue to fill their pockets with doors. But, in addition, they pose it in a wrong way, because, where is the progression? I have heard you in this rostrum about fiscal progressivity. Where is the fiscal escalation in this proposal when they raise a ceiling of EUR 400? Do you believe that 400 euros to the people on the mortgage, in a fork between 120 and 250 euros a month, will save you from ruin? Probably the one who wins 90 000, 100 000 or 200 000 euros is not that it saves him from ruin, it will do him well for some whim. But to those who already have difficulty paying the current mortgage without the raise, will they save the 400 euros? Why 400 euros to everyone and not about 600, another 800 and another 1000 deduction, and another 100, or anything else? Why all 400 euros? Where's the progression there? And they put it through the IRPF, that is, the income of work, which is precisely where the working class contributes the most and where the economic elites contribute the least, and that is proven. Why do they not propose to attack the property tax, the corporation tax, the big fortune tax? Why do they not propose to raise it there, which is where greater collection of money would be obtained and, therefore, higher level of redistribution? Because - and that's the problem - you attack the elites, and each one is because of who it is. You, the elites; we, the people. Other things could also be considered, beyond this of the economy - I don't breathe so much that I only have thirty seconds left, it won't be so hard -. You could think of limiting the profits of banking entities, it's coming up with electric oligopoly; you don't raise any of this. Don't fool anyone, they don't raise any of this. They might consider claiming the money from the bank of what they took for the bank bailout; they raise none of this - so that they don't deceive anyone -. They could even consider putting an end to the abusive commissions, the maintenance ones, the opening ones, all those that the banks sand us; they raise none of this. Are you planning something on this? No, no, Why? Because ultimately what they don't want is for banks to suffer. They need banks to continue to win so that they can continue to place those people who will have to look for a certain way out of the policy sector to the banking sector. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u94	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u95	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a motion by which the Citizens' Group urges the Government to approve an extraordinary and temporary deduction in the IRPF to alleviate the increase in variable-type mortgages on habitual housing. It is true that the shift and tightening of monetary policy to combat rising inflation has led to the fastest rise in euribor in recent years; a euribor that seems to have not reached a ceiling, which makes variable mortgage rates increase significantly, which of course implies a greater effort for the family budget. My group understands the problem and we believe that support measures should be considered for those mortgaged people who are beginning to have problems dealing with that payment. It is true that we are also attending proposals of all kinds in this regard from different groups - such as limiting the rise of variable mortgage quotas to a percentage or creating a rescue fund to help families who cannot pay - and today we are discussing that the increase in the quota is temporarily deductible in the IRPF. By the way, Mrs Muñoz, I do not believe that the Vice-President has taken her step, but has said that, among all these and others that arise, those that they consider most effective will be studied. Today's proposal does not take into account a number of factors. When a variable mortgage is signed, we all know that it is subject to variation, downwards but also upwards, and that the fact that the guys have been very low does not mean that they cannot climb. In addition, when we sign this type of mortgage, we have a minimum-and-a-half interest simulation; a simulation that in the maximum case is usually around 5% higher than the current one, which can make us predict whether under normal circumstances we could face a mortgage. This simulation is also taken into account when knowing the creditworthiness of the debtor. In addition, there are also fixed-rate mortgages on the market. Therefore, measures such as the one you propose mean to benefit those borrowers who opted for a variable interest, which could perhaps be the most risky option, and do not help those debtors who, having agreed on a fixed rate, may also have difficulty paying for rising light and food prices or for unemployment. Moreover, in this case, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, they intend to apply this measure - a deduction of at least 25% of the amount of the increase in interest paid on variable-rate mortgages as a result, as they have said, of the rise in rates - without discriminating on account of income or any other factor, and the truth is that it is strange. It gives the same income that you have that there is no progression; it is that even I can benefit from this deduction. Do you think this is reasonable with the one you're falling for? Well, I'm not going to benefit because I'm in the outlaw system, but whoever's in common territory, regardless of the level of income, could benefit simply by having a variable mortgage. It should also be borne in mind that variable-type mortgages are the oldest, those that have the most amortization done and, therefore, the amount of interest to be paid by the customer may be at best the smallest, with which we propose an idea as if it were the panacea and is not. Today you have spoken of copying, but you have also copied, and I believe that you have not done quite well, because you bring us a very similar initiative to that applied in the Canary Islands in 2008, although there were limited beneficiaries according to income. You told us today that they were also going to do so in Valencia and, if I am not mistaken, you spoke of a tax deduction for mortgages also according to a certain level of income. On the other hand, as I think it has also been said here, you, with this proposal, are transferring your cost to the budget, but in turn you are talking about reducing the deficit and lowering taxes. And how do you pay for this? You're bringing in debt? They will tell us that with the collection of inflation and reducing spending, but you know that this is not going to be so. We advocate effective measures, but for those families that may have difficulty in paying the mortgage, regardless of whether they raise the rates or whether they have a fixed-rate or variable-rate mortgage; because, as I said, there are other variables resulting from inflation that can make families have to stop paying those mortgages. This does not mean that measures should not be put in place for debtors in difficulty, but we believe that this should be done by improving and strengthening the framework for the protection of the most vulnerable mortgage debtor, perhaps with new mortgage moratoriums, by extending social emergency aid and even by making it possible for banks to facilitate innovations or subrogations of variable mortgages to competitive rates. The truth is that we do not share the measure proposed today, although I also have to say that we do not believe that a deduction simply in the IRPF is considered to lower taxes, because it will depend on the tax structure that each has. Perhaps what should also be raised in this situation is a reform of the tax system and not being all day talking about measures to reduce or raise taxes randomly depending on whether or not a certain circumstance happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u96	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause]] We move on to the next parliamentary group, which will be the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u97	Good afternoon and welcome to a new manifestation of the pseudo-liberal exerctors of Citizens. Mrs Muñoz Vidal, you will not be surprised that Esquerra does not contribute with his vote to a motion that we merely intend to propagandist, because in the end they propose a deduction that can sound good, but that, analyzed without too much detail, is nothing more than a coffee for everyone without applying any progressiveness and that does not allow to point out to the beneficiaries of the aid, when what is being asked precisely from the public agencies, even from the Bank of Spain, are more intensive surgical measures for those who need it most. Mrs Muñoz, lowering taxes is not always good and less so when at the same time we demand that the State go out to rescue those who need it in difficult circumstances. I am going to quote the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Mr Paolo Gentiloni - because it is applicable and is also not suspicious of being a collective Bolivarian -, that this weekend, with regard to the VAT reduction proposed by Feijóo, he said: 'It is often more useful to support families and businesses than to lower taxes'. If you are really concerned about the effect of an increase in interest - which is worrying - let us consider, for example, how to facilitate the passage of mortgages referring to variable types to fixed rates without obstacles, without burdens and with ceilings to abuse and usury. I am sure that the Government is concerned, because in these times, which are and will be more turbulent, we will soon be presented with measures in this direction or, of course, will be proposed by the opposition with a probative spirit. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u99	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. Mrs Muñoz, last week in that inquiry you started talking about monetary policy as the one talking about time, that is, as if it did not depend on political decisions and, therefore, decisions that can and should be criticized. I have even heard of interference because some member of the government came up with - oh, anathematic sin! - making some criticism in this regard. Mrs Muñoz - and, by extension, ladies and gentlemen of the right - interference would be that I shaved my moustache, put on a wig and made myself look like Mrs Lagarde; this would be interference. But no one here is discussing any authority, but the decisions it makes. This is called democracy, because in democracy all political decisions are critical. I understand that for some right-wing recent arrivals to this of democracy may seem somewhat confusing to you. It's okay, don't worry; as you go exercising in democratic principles you'll realize these things. On the eternal proposal to lower taxes, Mrs Muñoz, I do not know why you bother to write explanatory statements, if then everything ends with the same resolution: lower taxes. Besides, it's already been done, I used to tell him down the halls. In that interpellation you were forgotten to mention the elephant in the room, because he did not make a single mention at the drop of the electric VAT. This not only affects the basis of the problem, that is, the rise in energy prices, but it has a massive effect on the propagators, as you called them. On the other hand, you said last week, Mrs Muñoz, that you were in favour of the social measures that the government is implementing - fantastic! - but then you propose to lower taxes and, moreover, you yourself have asked one and a thousand times for a medium-term fiscal rebalancing plan. Mrs. Muñoz, how am I the way I am? Doesn't it give you the feeling that there's an ideological veil that makes you fall into a terrible incoherence? Because its solution is always to detract the State: if it rains, we bring the State; if it is hot, we bring the State. It gives me the feeling that either the accounts do not square, or so much in favor of social measures are not; or one thing or the other. Finally, you denounce the relative impoverishment of many mortgaged people, which is absolutely true and a concern that we share, but in the seventeen minutes that you devoted to him last week at no time did it occur to him to talk about who is going to get cut off from all this, as Mr Matute reminded you. I'm telling you, the banks. Right. Because the tax on the banks we are dealing with is not going to be a small part of what the banks are going to take raw with this new situation. In fact, the estimated collection figure, which was 1.5 million, will not even reach - listen to me, Mrs Muñoz - 2% of what they owe us all for the bank bailout. How are the banks going to benefit, Mrs. Muñoz? How are they already benefiting, in the present continuous? I'm going to talk to you about four mechanisms, not one or two, that are using the banks to cut out, as I told you before. First of all, it is raised from the stock exchange. You know that since the last fateful announcement by the Central Bank in the face of the rise in rates until now the IBEX has fallen by approximately 5,5 %. That is IBEX, because financial institutions have increased by 13% over the same period. What a thing! It's bad for everyone but the usual. The second way in which they are going to be lined up, increases in euribor and, therefore, in interest income on variable-rate mortgage loans. We could say that this is the legitimate gain. In any case, by the calculations we have been able to make, it will provide approximately €14.6 billion in additional revenue to these financial institutions. Third way through which they are provided, remuneration for public debt. You know that in 2012 the Central Bank granted three-year loans at a 1% interest rate, money that the banks used to invest it in public debt, which then yielded 4%. It is estimated that this manoeuvre generated for financial institutions only in Spanish debt a gain of EUR 12 billion. At present, the bank can perform exactly the same operation that was then made, i.e. request the money borrowed at the interest rate of 1,25% and buy Spanish sovereign debt bonds that yield above 3%. Fourth and final way in which they are to be covered, remuneration for deposits at the Central Bank. You know that during the pandemic the bank implemented a number of improvements in conditions to be able to access longer-term financing operations, which is known as TLTRO. In particular, participating entities could be financed at a rate of at least 1 % on the condition of increasing credit to families. After the approval of the new increase and, therefore, of the rate at which the Central Bank pays the deposits, the financial institutions that acceded to this mechanism are moving their surplus to the reserve of the deposits of the Central Bank. In this way, the Central Bank manages to withdraw money from financial institutions by restricting credit and the bank gets fallen profits from the sky. I'm just saying this, Mrs. Muñoz, don't you think the time has come, even for you liberal gentlemen, to stop...?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u100	You have to finish, Mr. Guijarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u101	Excuse me, President, I'm done with this. Doesn't it seem to you that the time has come to put an end to this nonsense, this trade union? Think about it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u102	Thank you, Mr. Guijarro. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Muñoz Vidal, you are presenting today an initiative that sounds very good in principle, a tax deduction precisely for an issue of first necessity, such as the payment of the mortgage on habitual housing, but I am very surprised at the implementation of your initiative, which I understand is not typical of the nature of such initiatives. You say that it has to be at least 25%, a ceiling of EUR 400, a temporary scope and also an extraordinary character, referring to the mortgages subscribed until 1 August. I have been reviewing last week's urgent inquiry, the statement of the motion, and I have also waited for your intervention today, because I hoped that you would in some way explain something about the data on which it has been based for those levels of achievement. I mean, why are you talking about a ceiling of 400 euros? Why not 500 or 300? Why at least 25% of the tax deduction? Why not more? Why not less? And, above all, it should assess the fiscal scope of this measure. How many people are you going to get to? How many people can benefit? It is an elementary thing that should have been accompanied by a concrete measure in those terms. Another thing he has forgotten is to say the impact that this measure would have on the state's revenues, because in order to position ourselves we will have to value the benefit that this tax deduction would bring and how many Spaniards it would reach, but we also need to know how it will impact the public accounts and what things are not going to be able to be paid for that income reduction in the public accounts. It seems that the liberals on this occasion did not want to throw themselves into the pool or say what will happen to the measure they propose. In this they look a bit like the People's Party, which talks a lot about tax cuts but doesn't talk about where they're going to cut spending so that that tax cuts are possible and don't help increase the public deficit. Because these left-wing gentlemen have been increasing and increasing the public deficit to levels that are absolutely unsustainable, that are tearing down future generations, and precisely in a scenario in which the European Central Bank has said that it ends with the programme of incentives for the mass purchase of public debt. In that scenario, not to mention the counterpart that has to have any reduction in the income of the State is reckless and makes its measure become - if I may say so - an absolutely populist measure. They have left us alone again, as in so many other important things, because we are the only political party in this Chamber that talks about tax cuts but puts the counterpart saying where public spending is going to be cut. [[Applauds]] Precisely, the left always justifies the increase of taxes by the welfare state - today it has been said here by several of those who have preceded me in the rostrum of speakers that we must continue to raise taxes under the pretext of the welfare state - but it is only their welfare state, of which they sit here: the state of political welfare and of their chiringuitos. [[Applauds]] There is a lot of co-responsibility in this serious situation, and I am referring to the People's Party. I don't know if this is going to make a second Rajoy, failing his promises, or get us into an increase in public spending. I think we must speak sincerely to the citizens, because they deserve it. We must be realistic and, even if we are left alone by the fifty-two Members of VOX, we are not concerned, because in Spain, as in Europe, it is the time of the patriots. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u104	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Bas Corugeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating a motion as a result of an urgent appeal to Mrs Calviño concerning the rise in interest rates and their impact on family economies. I have to say that the Vice-President's intervention in the inquiry could not have been more disappointing. It was a cold intervention, lacking empathy and with certain doses of pride. Mrs. Calviño is now being for Pedro Sánchez what Pedro Solbes was for Zapatero in the 2008 crisis. And, as happened with Zapatero in 2008, the measures implemented today by the government of Pedro Sánchez are increasing inequality and impoverishing the Spanish. Mr Guijarro, the data are devastating and the situation of many Spanish families is dramatic. The queues of hunger continue to rise; we have more than 13 million Spaniards at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 4 million are in a situation of severe material deprivation and, to Spain's greater shame, we are leading the poverty rate of developed countries. With this scenario, it is not explained that the government beats a record of collection and opposes the temporary reduction of some taxes, as proposed by our President Feijóo. Ladies and gentlemen, we have at the head of the government a president who is busy in his personal projection and a vice president who is responsible for economic affairs who does not agree with a forecast. The forecasts of Nadia Calviño related to the CPI are not wasted: first, in November last year, he told the Spaniards that it was a transitory phenomenon; then, in March this year, he said that inflation had reached a ceiling of 8.4%, and then, in May, he assured us that we would not achieve a two-digit inflation in any case. Well, nothing to do with reality: today inflation is at the record 10,5 %, with the underlying figure set at 6,4 %. Mrs. Calviño is not credible. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our President Feijóo has been proposing measures to curb inflation and improve the disposable income of families. Among other measures, it has proposed the reduction of VAT to electricity and gas accepted by the Government several months late - and the deflation of the IRPF to return to the most disadvantaged families part of the excess collection obtained by the Treasury, as some autonomous communities are doing. By the way, today Galicia has also announced the deflating of the IRPF for the first three tranches, thus saving the Galicians 46 million euros in taxes. [[Applauds]] And to reduce the price of the shopping basket, our President Feijoo has also proposed to lower VAT from 10 % to 4 % on meat, fish, water, oils, fresh pasta and preserved. This proposal that citizens bring us today is in line with what the People's Party is proposing, because it aims to increase the disposable income of families. But we still understand that this is an incomplete initiative, both in content and in form. In the content because it is limited only to the impact of the rise of interest rates on mortgages, but it forgets the other problems that families have that cannot reach the end of the month. Indeed, the mortgage receipt has risen, but they also have difficulties with the electricity receipt, which in August triggered its cost; with the return to school, more expensive than ever and estimated at 400 euros per child; and with the two-digit inflation, which was not known in four decades. We also see it incomplete because it leaves undefined some important aspects, such as knowing, for example, whether it will apply regardless of the level of income of families, whether it will be progressive or not. In addition, they can leave thousands of families out, as the measure will benefit mainly those variable mortgages of the most recent constitution in which more interest than capital is paid. We also believe that the maximum deduction limit should be related to the level of income of families, the amount of the receipt and the family burden, which is also not clear in the initiative. [[The Lord]] In short, we agree with the spirit of the proposal, as it is in line with other measures that we have put forward from the People's Party, but we do not agree so much with the scope and development of the proposal, as we consider it to be very short. However, we are not going to oppose it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u106	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u107	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Muñoz, the truth is that I thank you for this motion and also for the previous question. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, the habit does not make the monk and this habit does not feel good for you. When they defend the families and households of this country, this habit remains great, because they have been voting against the families and households of this country for two years - two years. [[Applauds]] The PP of the Defensted Casado voted against 140 billion to help the families of this country. It was a hard record to overcome, I thought it was going to be years before the first opposition party will vote against another 140 billion that alleviated the worst pandemic humanity has ever been through. For in five months Mr Feijoo has beaten the record of Casado voting against 30 billion in the national plan to fight the war, 30 billion. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, in my land it is said that when it rains, people are not told to stay at home; and what you have been doing all this time is not giving one umbrella and just scaring people. Ladies and gentlemen, the data beat the story. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, what have you said not in the last five months? They have said no to EUR 200 for self-employed and unemployed workers. They have said no to the VAT reduction, first from 21 to 10 % and after 10 to 5 %; we have the cheapest VAT in the whole of the European Union and you have said no. They said not to ban evictions. They said not to limit the rent. They said not to raise the minimum income by 15%. They said not to lower the fuel 20 cents to fill the tank every day. They said no to the transport bonds. For a gentleman who goes from Badajoz to Mérida this will amount to 600 euros in these four months; for one who goes from A Coruña to Santiago, 750 euros; for a citizen who goes from Seville to Cadiz, 1200 euros; and they have said no. [[Applauds]] They said no to our young people's scholarships, a hundred euros a month. Tell me if that goes to the family bag. Mrs Muñoz, I will tell you what concerns the middle class in this country, which is not a tax deduction, is to have a stable job, which they do not have to renew every fifteen days; it is to have a decent salary; it is to have affordable housing, and it is to have quality public services. That's what worries the middle class in this country. Do you know what the three-right answer was? Lower taxes. That there is inflation, lower taxes; that there is less inflation, lower taxes; that we grow much, lower taxes; that we don't grow, lower taxes, and that we have more debt, lower taxes. That's what you promote. And I wonder, why do you want to lower taxes? In my land, Andalusia occupies the penultimate position in health investment per inhabitant. The last is Madrid and the penultimate is Andalusia; for that they lower taxes. [[Applauds]] They want to lower taxes so that in my land there are cities like my capital where it is difficult to build a public school. They want to lower taxes so they don't fund dependency as our dependents deserve; that's why they want to lower taxes. They want to lower taxes so they don't invest in resources when our forests have been burned this summer. They want to lower taxes so they don't invest in housing plans that make our young people have a home and don't have to mortgage for life; that's why they want to lower taxes. And that's your only recipe, PP ladies and gentlemen of the right, they have no other, and that's not our solution. They will never find us there because we will continue to bet on the growth of this country. This week the figure of the economic growth of Spain came out and I suppose that the agrarians and the catastrophists liked it because we are leading the growth. We bet on growth; we bet on the National Recovery Plan, on those 70 billion, and we bet on trust in the citizens of this country. That is the way to create wealth and not, Mrs Muñoz, that of a deduction, a deduction that is regressive because it does not take into account income and is discriminatory. Is it just for those who have variable mortgages? And the ones who have it fixed? What about the renters? We don't care about those. Moreover, Mrs Muñoz, if you were so concerned about the interests of the banks that were crushing families, last week your group had a golden opportunity: to approve the tax on the banks, which are the ones that are most charging, because precisely with that result we will help those families. [[Applauds]] That is political coherence, Mrs Muñoz. Therefore, we extend our hand to them to accept these measures because it is not this deduction that the families of this country need. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause from Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Mrs Muñoz Vidal from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u108	Thank you very much. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN HIS POSITION IN THE INTERNATIONAL AND NATO AREA AFTER SIX MONTHS OF THE INITIATION OF THE RUSSIAN INVASION IN URANIA, AND THE STRATEGY FOLLOWING ONE OF THE MOST SAFETY CRISIS IN EUROPE FROM THE END OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR. [[File number 173/000170]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u109	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain its position at the international and NATO level after more than six months of the start of the Russian invasion in Ukraine, and the strategy it is following in the face of one of the biggest security crises in Europe since the end of the Second World War. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Tarno Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. With this motion, the People's Parliamentary Group wishes to reiterate its support... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u111	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u112	...majority of this House to the Ukrainian people at some decisive moments to put an end to this brutal invasion. Since the Russian troops invaded Ukraine on 24 February, the vast majority of European governments and citizens, as well as our NATO allies, have supported the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people. Such sustained financial and logistical support has enabled them to recover a significant portion of their territory and cope with the invasion troops. They have been more than six months of effort and sacrifice, thousands of dead and wounded. But, given the absurd idea maintained by some that this support would serve no purpose, it has been shown to be absolutely essential for the end of the war. Strengthening military aid to Ukraine is now essential in order to substantially change the course of the war. Now it's more necessary than ever. The recent decree on the mobilization of reservists by Russia has not only revealed the organizational difficulties of its army and the lack of logistical capacity or the difficulties they have had on the front, but, more importantly, a surprising citizen rejection of these mobilizations and demonstrations that have led to thousands of detainees to disagree and to think differently. There have been massive escapes from the country. It is estimated that more than 300,000 men of the age of being called to ranks have left Russia in just one week. Today a part of Russian public opinion believes that the invasion of Ukraine was a mistake and traditional Moscow allies as well. That is why strong and determined support for Ukraine is the right path. The Spanish Government has an obligation to increase its shipments of defence material to Ukraine. They need our weapons, our artillery, our armored and our logistical support. We cannot refuse our obligations. More effort is needed than has been achieved so far; it has not been enough. We can and must do much more. We must follow the path that countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Poland, Germany and the Baltic Republics have taken. But not only is our military support necessary, but also the political one. Ukraine's application for membership of the European Union must be welcomed by this House. Candidate status is a strong support for Ukrainians, but the Spanish Government must push for the necessary regulatory changes to move decisively towards accession. In exceptional situations, exceptional measures. The invasion of Ukraine has made even more evident the need for our country to invest in our defence. For this it is necessary that without complexes, without shortcuts and without subterfuges in these General Budgets of the State it has decided an increase in the departures of the Ministry of Defence that will lead us in a short space of time to fulfill the commitments made with our partners in NATO. These budgets must ensure the full operationality of our Armed Forces. Today a large majority of Spaniards share the idea that investing in defence and security is investing in rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] In order to continue to guarantee our security and that of our partners, it is essential to sign the new bilateral defense agreement between the United States and Spain, as the governments agreed last June. Expanding the capacity of the Rota base is essential for safety in the Mediterranean. The United States is an essential partner for our defence and for that of our allies, and we are at your disposal for your approval. During the pre-motional inquiry, the minister, with the usual forepower, spoke to us about unity and support for NATO and the European Union and demanded that unity. That is why with this motion we invite the parties that support the Government to have a common and united response to the war in Ukraine; a single response. The Minister does not like us to question her, she accuses us of disloyalities in doing our job of monitoring the government, but she does not seem to care very much about the positions contrary to her policies and to her on the part of the Council of Ministers. Unity is necessary in our external action and in our defence policy, but don't look at us, look around you and you will find who breaks that unity: your usual partners. Some members of the Government are concerned about the position of some new European government on the war in Ukraine, but they are unable to see that their governing partners are the first to break the unity of action in this matter. Finally, they are completely different measuring rods. I do not want to end this intervention without showing the absolute and unanimous support of the People's Party for our Armed Forces, for those who from the Baltic Republics or the Mediterranean protect us and our allies, but also for those who do so from within Spain. Thank you for your work and dedication. I'll be eternally grateful. [[Applauds]] The invasion of Ukraine has greatly affected our lives. These are difficult and complicated moments, but only the determination to be on the right side, to be with the invader and not with the invader, will make us overcome them. In this Chamber, President Zelenski said that Ukraine is deciding not only the fate of our country, but the fate of the entire European community, the fate of the values that unite us, the democracy that unites us all. He was begging us in this Chamber: give us the weapons we need, because democracy is not afraid, freedom must be defended. Therefore, let us fulfil our obligation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u113	Thank you. In defence of the amendments put forward by the VOX Group, Mr Rosety Fernández de Castro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in its recent inquiry, the People's Parliamentary Group asked the Government to comment on its position and strategy in relation to the war in Ukraine. The Minister expressed strong support from the Executive for the country being attacked, but works are love and not good reasons. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we have made a fool of ourselves over and over again with our aid shipments. The Leopards have been loud because it has served, among other things, to demonstrate the disastrous state of our war reserves, which is so jealously hidden. That said, the strategy, what is said strategy, does not appear in Mrs Robles' answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are very naive to expect such a pronouncement from the Frankenstein Government. The strategy, a word devalued by use and abuse, has been defined as part of the dialectic of wills. This will, which comes from national sovereignty, not NATO or the European Union, is what characterizes the State as a strategic actor capable of asserting its interests before adversaries and also before partners and allies. [[Applauds]] You know that the sovereignty, security and prosperity of our compatriots are our interests. In Spain and in Europe it is time for patriots. Well, how can a collective will be formed within an Executive only united by its partisan interest, even personal ones? How to serve the national interest when the nation itself is being denied at the same time? How can we enforce our international commitments when a party of the government coalition calls the terrorist organization the alliance to which we belong? [[Applauds]] Mr Santiago and Mr Pisarello were warned by our Member, Mr Asarta, clearly two weeks ago, and I have reproached Mrs Maestro for this in the Commission more than once: what they have been calling the Putin war is a widespread crisis. The vital interests of the major strategic actors are committed to generating an unprecedented geopolitical, economic and energy crisis, and, of course, our own. A general strategy of the Government would have to have ensured Spain's energy supply, making use of the advantage of good relations with Algeria, but Mr. Álvarez or Mr. Sánchez, or both of them at the helm, were in charge of rolling it all out, giving Western Sahara to Morocco. [[Applauds]] Now our imports of Putin's gas - which is also Putin's, in addition to the war - have multiplied, while illegal immigration is growing from Algeria and Morocco and the threat to Ceuta, Melilla and the Canary Islands persists. Is that strategy, ladies and gentlemen of the progressive coalition? But time is pressing and we must focus on the motion. I am already advancing our inclination to vote in favour. How can I not? All its points sound good to a group that as VOX has condemned from the first moment the aggression of the Russian Federation to Ukraine. However, read more carefully, we have felt that our compliance with points 2, 3 and 6 must be nuanced, so we have recorded the corresponding amendments. It is proposed to include a specific item in the State General Budgets to finance the shipment of military equipment to Ukraine. It seems right to us and we will vote in favour, provided that it is specified that this item is not considered part of the defence effort or, therefore, the resources to be allocated to our Armed Forces are not considered to be part of the defence effort. Point 3 calls on the Government to ensure a budget increase in defence to reach a minimum of 2% of GDP. How many years, ladies and gentlemen? The horizon agreed in Wales ends in 2024 and the government with its agreement, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, has extended it until 2029. Do you really believe, ladies and gentlemen of the left and right benches, that the international situation and the state of prostration of our Armed Forces advise us to continue trying for luck? With regard to point 6, this gives us some perplexity. Ukraine's accession to the European Union is today a desideratum paid for by the natural interest of that country's government and by a certain flight ahead of the European Union, plunged into endogenous and also external crises. But, ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine is a war-torn country in which none of our allies wish to intervene. In the absence of an explicit NATO guarantee, the proposal to speed up its accession to the European Union is a toast to the sun. These are our amendments to those three points. We will vote for them if they accept them. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. In support of this motion, as a result of the interpellation to the Minister of Defence, I would like to point out that throughout the XIV Legislature the Government has barely informed the General Courts of the immediate future involvement, agreements and commitments to which we are bound by NATO membership. It did not do so before the important summit held here in Madrid at the end of June, at which a new strategic concept was adopted, and it has not yet done so. At the heart of this attitude of insufficient transparency and let go of the months without giving information or explanations on a matter of crucial national interest, is the unquestionable fact that a significant part of the members of the blue bank are against NATO, and a substantial part of the decisive parliamentary arithmetic support here in Congress are declared anti-Atlantists, from those to grab the front line to the 'Bases out' banner. NATO doesn't. It would be enough to review some interventions in the Journal of Sessions in which very large disqualifications are collected by the mouth of authorized spokespersons and messages of infamous content to an organization of which we are part, which undermine the credibility of the Government and therefore of Spain. Remember, in any case, that our country's membership of NATO, sponsored in 1981 by the government of Leopoldo Calvo-Sotelo, Union de Centro Democrático, was ratified by the Spanish people in a referendum in March 1986, already with the socialist government of Felipe González, who, by the way, yesterday, in a talk at the Ceseden, rightly warned of the superlative costs that it would entail for the defence of Spain to be outside of NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the penultimate pirouette was known to prevent the next draft State General Budgets for 2023 from being rejected by Unite Podemos, one of the parliamentary groups that is part of the government, by means of the camouflage of the necessary and indispensable increase in defence spending within a special plan with which to solve the reluctance and rejection in the face of this rise. This initiative, which Mr Tarno Blanco has defended, promotes in its points the strengthening of Spain's political commitment to NATO and the budgetary effort to live up to all the allies and to strengthen the resources of our Armed Forces, which need to be modernised, to update their working and wage conditions and to expand and rejuvenate their endowment. Also, on the line of the terrible invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces, which has just been over seven months, I agree with this parliamentary initiative that drives the need to provide vehicles, weapons and military equipment with which to assist the Ukrainian combat forces in the war against the invaders. In this respect, the Spanish Government did not live up to the requests made here, in the historic telematics appearance of 5 April by the Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski, nor by the European Commission itself. It is unfortunate that the Ukrainian diplomatic representation in Spain has had to remember that our contribution with combat material for the Ukrainian forces is one of the worst in Europe and that we delayed or failed to fulfil the commitments that Sánchez made public during his visit to the town of Boro Yanka, very close to Kiev, on 21 April. Spain's commitment to the values of peace, freedom, democracy and solidarity should not involve any haggling or delay. It is not only the absolute priority issue of saving lives and combating an abominable criminal invasion, but also the economic impacts of the war that we are suffering from both the costly deployment of military resources, the enormous amount of Community and national aid, as well as the variant that has fuelled energy, cereals and supplies of basic goods for our productive sectors, hence diplomatic efforts to end the war must be accompanied by economic efforts to bring it to an end as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the war in Ukraine, as has been anticipated by accredited international bodies, is going on for a long time and the heroic Ukrainian resistance has forced the Kremlin to make decisions involving forced recruitment. In any case, I shall reply, with my vote in favour, to the motion by the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u118	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the situation is worrying following the legitimate resistance of the Ukrainian people. Mr Putin has now announced a partial mobilization, which is leading to a worrying situation. We are increasingly seeing personalities talking about nuclear risk. Some people don't get nervous, but I do get a little worried. That is why, when I hear this proposal which primarily predates the escalation of war and any alternative to the blemish of absurdity, I am concerned because I believe that the priority at this time should be to seek diplomatic exits, I repeat, diplomatic exits to that unjust aggression, yes, from Russia to Ukraine. We all know that this will end up at a negotiating table and that is where the European Union has to put all its efforts. They said, trying to ridicule the pacifist positions or to ensure an urgent exit through negotiation and diplomacy, which is absurd, and at the same time we are seeing that this conflict is pointing to a long way. What's absurd? The war escalation, the military escalation or urgently looking for ways out of this conflict? In recent months we have seen that there was even a willingness on the part of this proposing formation to seek a message of support for the Ukrainian people and it has achieved a historic milestone, which is that the political groups of this Congress support a non-legislative proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs jointly. Similarly, in other proposals we have seen that some points of the People's Parliamentary Group were defendable and supported them because we thought they were common sense, but the situation is getting worse and their texts are getting worse too. They're indefensible and they leave us no choice. In point 1, which could be an interesting point of rejection and condemnation - as they say - of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, they seek a formula that is, at least, a bit harsh: it urges the Government to reiterate its condemnation of the invasion of Ukraine - that is, not to Congress, but to the Government, as if there were doubts that they are doing so - and, at the same time, to request that it appear in Congress to explain the consequences of the latter decision. As a formula it's a little strange. In the rest of the proposals there is a military war escalation, whether extra or ad intra, more weapons, weapons for Spain and weapons for Ukraine. And what about a way out of the conflict? They ridicule diplomacy in the explanatory statement and say it's a mistake. A mistake, no, a mistake is precisely to focus everything on a military exit to prolong a conflict that we all know will end up at a negotiating table. Point 6, which could also be a point to take into account, is formulated in a way that is, at least, strange, that is to include in the objectives of the Spanish EU Presidency the adaptation of Community legislation to the reality of Ukraine. Do these gentlemen, even if they are invaded by Russia, no longer have to meet the Copenhagen criteria? And what will the Republic of Northern Macedonia say? What is Montenegro going to say? Are they also exempted from meeting the Copenhagen criteria? Moreover, as I read it, it would be understood that it should be European legislation that uses the criteria of Ukraine, and not the other way around. The situation is unfair, but I say that Ukraine, like any candidate state, will have to meet the criteria set by the Union. Finally, point 6 speaks of supporting all EU actions, especially the Commission. From our humble point of view, Mr Borrell's statements calling for more weapons and bellicose fuelling the conflict are a nonsense. The role of a great diplomat, in this case a high representative of the EU, should be precisely to seek a diplomatic solution to this conflict as soon as possible, because it is urgent. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, at other times we have supported some point, but in this case the points on which we could reach an agreement are poorly worded and are not understood. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u119	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are not going to use this shift to have a debate on Ukraine, on what is going on, on war or on Putin because, in almost eight months of unjust invasion and war in Putin, we have debated a lot in the Commission and in plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u121	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please, we are in the middle of the debate and I would ask for a minimum of concentration on the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. He said that we are not going to continue discussing something that has already been very much debated, among other things because the purpose of the motion is not to discuss Ukraine either. You know the famous McGuffin hitchcockian, don't you? For in this case, in this motion, Ukraine is the McGuffin, but the film runs through other paths and with other objectives, it is not necessary to be any Nobel prize to discover the plot; that is, to medrare and - forgive the expression - to mislead in search of contradictions of the government. We're not so naive, we already know this whole story. I am not a member of the government, but it seems to me that it is quite absurd and childish to try it on such a serious issue, because this is a serious issue, it is a matter of foreign policy that you want to turn into an internal policy. You cannot make a mockery of these issues, because Europe looks at us, looks at us at the embassies, looks at us Ukraine, and all these countries take note of what is being debated and what initiatives come in and what is the role of the opposition party, etc. It seems to me, therefore, that you have spent a little bit of time seeking contradictions in the Government as a maximum objective and, in this case, using the Ukrainian issue. I have said that we are not going to discuss Ukraine, but just looking at the points they raise, I do not think it is necessary for the Government or the President to appear to explain what a third party has done. In this case, for what Putin has done, they want him to come. We are the first to ask for an explanation whenever there is a question of these; the Government will have to assume its responsibilities and that is why the monitoring sessions are both in plenary and also in the Commission. The Minister of Defence seems fantastic to us, whenever there is something new, whenever there is something for the Government. Of course, I'd miss more! Or that the Foreign Minister should come if it is a matter of foreign policy. With regard to the budgets, I think you have spent a little bit on some issues. These things have to be carried with more discretion, the issues related to military games, how much it has to be for Ukraine, how much it doesn't have to be... It seems to me that anyone who was watching will think that the scope to talk about these things should be somewhat more discreet. The same goes for when you or anyone else were in the government, not just in this case. And when the budgets are negotiated - the processing of which will begin shortly - we will see the percentages and how much is to be allocated to the Army, to the Armed Forces, if it is to be 2% or whatever. And obviously there are commitments, but there are also deadlines, and all this will have to be seen as a whole on the basis of the needs that are taken together, on the basis of logistical approaches, etc. It is a matter which, as I said, falls within more areas and I do not think that the means are a motion to say that 2% or whatever must be included. The same way you say it has to be in artillery. But, let's see, who are we to say if it has to be in artillery or it has to be in another series of areas? This will be decided by the technicians, those of the Ministry of Defence, those of the Armed Forces, those of NATO, those of the European Union or those who decide what are the needs and what is the best way to help and contribute to the defence of the Ukrainians, what is appropriate, when, why, but it cannot be said in a motion of the Spanish Parliament that this is now going to artillery. I don't think it's up to us. I would like to show our full support for the European Union and for the incorporation of Ukraine as a Member State, but let us follow the deadlines and follow the paths set for Ukraine's accession to the European Union. The condemnation of investment and unwavering support for Ukrainian sovereignty does not depend on whether or not Ukraine is in the Union, that is, we will support it equally and consider the invasion equally unfair and we will consider the war of Putin as a criminal, whether or not it is in the European Union. We said the Russian invasion is just as vulnerable in any case. Finally, it is not necessary that every equi time we are here doing the ball to the Armed Forces. Everyone does their job and I think that's enough. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u123	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u124	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after more than two hundred days since the invasion by Putin of Ukraine, since mid-month we are seeing how Ukrainian troops are making significant progress and recovering territories occupied by the Army, and that is good news, especially because they help keep the Ukrainian people in hope. But this good news has been accompanied by a harsh response from the Putin regime, threatened by the use of atomic bombs and calling more than 300,000 civilians to ranks. Yes, the progress of the brave Ukrainians does not mean that the risk has passed; on the contrary, now more than ever we must be alert and continue to support them so that, sooner than later, the war will end. That is why we consider the motion we are debating today to be relevant, a motion that we will support because we share your spirit and also most of the requests you make, many of which have already been debated in this House on the proposal of the Liberals. Because, as I said, if we have seen something in the course of the conflict, the financial aid and military support of NATO countries to Ukraine has been decisive in containing the offensives of Russian troops and in being able to make progress in slowly recovering lost territories. And, all this, with a Spanish government that has clearly failed to fulfil its promises of assistance to the Ukrainian forces; a shameful situation that has greatly weakened the external image of our country and undermined our international leadership. We can no longer go back and the unfortunate episodes of the tanks that could not be sent because of their bad condition or that of the trucks that returned to Spain as they arrived in Ukraine will remain there for the shame of this government. But what we can do is make sure that this does not happen again and less at a decisive moment for the fight as it is. That is why we ask the Government directly to clarify what efforts it is making to continue to offer military assistance, what and how much military material it intends to send in the near future and what Spanish troops will participate in the mission that is expected to be approved for Ukrainian troops. We cannot stop now the flow of assistance to the Ukrainian people, we are in time to amend the mistakes, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to Ukraine's entry into the European Union, it is not necessary to recall that from Citizens we were the first to support Spain's public support for Ukraine's accession, because no one other than the Ukrainian people and their defence of freedom deserves to participate in our common project and in the values that sustain it today. And we also share the need to ensure that the government fulfils its commitment to increase the defence budget to 2%, a promise signed at the last NATO summit but that, in view of the record of unfulfilled promises by this government and the latest statements by the PSOE ministers and Podemos in this regard, we are once again calling into question their word. This is what happens when one of the government's partners explicitly calls for the elimination of military spending, the abolition of the Army, or for Spain to leave NATO, which for them is a criminal organization against which they openly come out to protest. What credibility do we offer our allies and the rest of the countries that are supporting Ukraine? We need a government with reliable partners who believe in the importance of a strong, modern and well-funded defence that guarantees the fulfilment of our international commitments and helps to maintain our external image at such a crucial time as this; quite the contrary to what We can do. For all this, and while we wait to see whether there is a transactional or the VOX amendment is approved, we will in principle support this motion. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u126	President, thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I speak from the seat just to make it clear that we believe that this motion does not bring anything new. Each and every one of the issues it addresses has been discussed in a Commission or in this House. We believe that the People's Party is trying to pry into a wound that exists, into a division that exists between two partners of the Government and that this is not an issue that should be used for that purpose. That is why we are not going to vote in favour of this motion, and it is not because we do not share the meaning of what it says - we have said it repeatedly - but because we believe that it is not appropriate to take advantage of this sensitive issue for a partisan interest and because it has to be resolved by the partners of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u127	Thank you so much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know if in the People's Party they will end up bored of presenting the same motion every month, but we take it into consideration, of course, as it cannot be otherwise. I think we agree that we are all concerned about this situation that we have at the geopolitical level right now. In fact, it has been known a few moments ago that those referendums that Russia has made in the Donbas have received 96% support for its annexation; with this, the situation is quite worrying. And I think that Putin's war against Ukraine has meant much more than we all imagined; to begin with, that people have already forgotten that war is scary. Of course, until it reaches your borders, you don't remember. Well, we've got her here now. We also agree that Putin is a tyrant; it is true, he is a tyrant, but not only for the people of Ukraine or the West, but also for their own people. In fact, we have seen how thousands of people were arrested for protests against the military mobilization of reservists that Putin has ordered; by the way, an action we haven't seen since World War II. So any scenario will be negative from now on. It is also clear that our group is keenly committed to self-defence. Of course, if they attack you, you have to defend yourself; I think there is no doubt about that. But how have we come to this situation? Some say we've been at war for six months, but in that we can't agree, more than anything because we've been at war for many years now. In fact, Putin is already close to his neighboring country; we have seen him with Crimea and we are seeing him with Donbas. But while Putin is straining that situation, we find that the West, instead of trying to put land in the middle and relax, is more straining the situation. A very clear and significant example: in 2014, the current Ukrainian government, which at the time was pro-Russian, is overthrown and taken out of power by a Europeanist movement that ends up calling Euromaidan - I suppose you will remember - an abnormal situation within what is a theoretically democratic country. During these years and to this day, the West has continued to strain this situation, straining more and more, also seeking borders with Russia and preparing for a conflict that surely cannot be won. It is a conflict that we cannot win, and that must also be made very clear. Perhaps the orders that are received by the United States, that great armamentist ally that the West has, are certainly not the best, and that must also be thought of. Ladies and gentlemen, the time of the warlords is now over. That's from the last century. Does anyone really believe that a war conflict, even if not on a global scale, can be good? Can anyone believe it? We are all aware that the consequences of war - and I remarry it - are always being paid by the civilian population. Are we conscious? Is NATO really the solution to the conflict? Or have you contributed to the conflict? Are there Nazis in Ukraine? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not time to speculate or to increase catastrophic situations, we must continue to opt for diplomatic channels, only so that we can save lives, which I believe is of interest. Any scenario other than that will be just to lose them, and I don't think we can afford it. We know that dialogue with a tyrant is not easy at all, we are aware, but anything other than the choice of diplomatic means has truly terrible consequences for all. And remember that the victims are also those who suffer from the energy and economic crises, or those who have to leave their country, which we sometimes forget. Finally, think that perhaps, and only perhaps, we are not categorizing one another well; that perhaps, and only perhaps, we are taking the side of what we think is ours, and that perhaps, and only perhaps, none of ours is ours. Think about it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u128	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u129	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, if your last star proposals have been to give tax gifts to the richest and to help the most nightly versions of the ultra-right come to power in different parts of Europe, let them come here and say that we must extend this barbarism as much as possible, not as much as we are surprised. It is hardly surprising because already before, from the sofa and without sending their children to the front, we were put into another war, that of Iraq, as criminal as the one that is happening at the moment in Ukraine. It is not surprising because we still remember José María Aznar speaking in Texan, pleading with that lying president, George Bush, while thousands of innocent women and children fall on the streets of Baghdad. The only difference is that today you are doing it by the hand of an ultra-right who feeds on the unrest generated by the pandemic, on precariousness, and who benefits, like you, as Berlusconi, from a media power that constantly blocks its outbursts. Thanks to that tolerance in the media, you and the far right have been able to declare themselves fervent supporters of NATO and flirt with a Putin who until two days ago fascinated them, not only for the business he offered them, but for his fierce anti-communism, for his anti-feminism, for his declared homophobia. You have already forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, Aznar and his then friend the Kremlin. How to forget the cynicism of Abascal, who has taught us that you can jump from NATO to Putin and from Putin to NATO and that that is as easy for VOX as to overlay Macarena Olona one day and then purge without blush like the Nazis on the night of the long knives. [[Applauds]] So many Catholic Catholics, gentlemen, have been foaming for six months every time the Pope himself reminds them that the legitimate right of the Ukrainian people to defend themselves should not be used as an alibi to multiply the miserable and murderous arms business. Transnational Catholics and have been raised for six months against the head of their Church because it reminds them that a good Christian should sympathize with the sufferings of the Ukrainian people, yes, but seeking peace and dialogue and not adding to the demonization and collective accusation that some claim to make of the Russian people. [[Applauds]] But how can we be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that you want to bait the war business with the most cavernary ultra-rights in Europe if what you think about the bottom is that war is the opportunity to do great business. What are those big deals? For example, protecting the big speculators; applauding the tax gifts to the ultra-rich - by the way, the UK will cost it bankruptcy -; putting forward that the energy alternative of the moment is to go back to fracking; destroying the territory. These are, ladies and gentlemen, their alternatives, against which, of course, they will have us against. And their reaction, for example, to macho violence: to deny or condemn it only when it occurs in Iran. No, ladies and gentlemen, if it is condemned, it is condemned in Iran, it is condemned in Afghanistan, it is condemned in Spain and it is condemned in Saudi Arabia, where women are harassed without you ever raising your voice. Look, a few days ago we saw President Pedro Sánchez honoring in New York the 50th anniversary of Salvador Allende's speech at the UN, and already at that time we said we were celebrating it. But we also said that to honor that gesture it was essential to avoid double standards, and that means that the same understanding that we show with the peoples of the East, who denounce the neo-Tsarist nationalism of the Kremlin, we should show it with the peoples of the South, who constantly denounce the blows that have struck Allende from Washington and that today continue to wreak havoc all over the world. [[Applauds]] It is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the President of Mexico, López Obrador, who has taken the initiative of demanding that the great powers seek a five-year truce and not drag us into a nuclear holocaust, which would be suicidal for all of humanity. It is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, that it was President Petro of Colombia who, in his brilliant UN speech, recalled that what produces the climate disaster is the capital and the logic of a few gaining more and more. [[Applauds]] And it's not random because there's a south that's been facing the furious neoliberalism that's at the origin of the current neo-fascist boom for decades. Next Sunday precisely that south will be the one that will show in Brazil that, despite its brutal violence, its complicity with the great feudal powers of our time, elneofascism will not overcome. He will not win because neither his hatred nor his lies will prevent millions of humble people from making their voice felt in institutions and outside them, and because neither his hatred nor his lies will prevent a mechanical turnout they chased obviously from standing up and becoming president of Brazil again. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Lula's triumph will be the triumph of Marielle Franco and of all the women and men who never went down their heads in front of Bolsonaro. It will also be the best tribute of the Brazilian people to Matteotti, Antonio Gramsci, Carla Capponi and all that Italy that planted in front of Mussolini and in which, sooner than later, the Bella Ciao will sound again. [[Laughter]] For them, ladies and gentlemen, for them and for the generations to come, we continue to take on the task that lies with us, to resist, to persist and never to give up. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u130	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u131	Thank you, President. Last week our President of the Government intervened in New York in the United Nations Assembly in support of Ukraine and the multilateral order represented by the United Nations, while his deputy, the deputy of the popular bank, Mr. Hispan, was asking the Minister of Defence for approximately one offence per minute with only one objective: to sow disunity and catastrophe. Not even in times of war is the right hand of this country able to live up to and put his country's interests before this strategy of harassment and destruction? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if instead of insulting, dividing, listening, you would not have to make this motion. They must be the only ones throughout Europe, NATO, the United Nations, who ignore the position of the Government of Spain and the position of President Pedro Sánchez with regard to the strongest condemnation of Putin and his terrible escalation. They ask in their motion that the Government explain their position on the Russian invasion of Ukraine, when it has already been exposed, and I have taken the trouble of making a real follow-up: five European councils; nine NATO meetings; Madrid summit in June, with Spain as host country; institutional statements; bilateral meetings; the Davos World Economic Forum; the debate on the state of the nation in this very House in July; the speech of the President of the Government last week, which could continue in the debate of the United Nations; all weekly and special appearances on the occasion of the war in Ukraine... Ladies and gentlemen, do you really have to ask, do you have to bring this here to say what position the President of the Government of Spain has and what position the Government has? They call for strengthening our bilateral transatlantic link with the United States and accelerating the modification of the Treaty for the use of the Rota base, when last June Presidents Sánchez and Biden signed a new joint declaration. And I give you a data, a new joint strategic declaration of friendship and collaboration between the United States and the Kingdom of Spain that had not been updated for twenty-one years. For it seems that it is not this government that you must urge to bring things quickly when after seven years of government you have let this remain there in oblivion, until now, twenty-one years later, we have been able to update it within the framework you are asking for in the motion. They're calling for an increase in the defense budget. Did you, the People's Party, which subjected national defence to historical minimums, bring defence spending to the lowest point in relation to GDP? Come on, Wales' goal for you was pure ignorance when you were ruling. With you the defence budget knows that it gave us only for payrolls, almost 75% of the entire budget for more than four legislatures was to cover payrolls and no investment. And now they call for the defence budget to reach 2% of GDP already, in two years, when they know that the President of the Government has already committed himself to all NATO partners in a reasonable period of time and is already reflected in the update of the Stability Programme of the Kingdom of Spain 2022-2025. I hope that, if you ask for an increase, when we bring in the General Budgets of the State, you will vote for it. At the same time, they unleash in total incongruity their demagogy of lowering taxes and forgive millions of euros to high incomes in their autonomous governments that then intend to charge on the State Treasury and that it has no deficit. [[Applauds]] So, where are you going to cut off, ladies and gentlemen of the PP? Where do they cut? They always cut into the same, I will tell you: in support of the middle and working class, the pensioners and the most vulnerable. Those are the ones who are going to have to suffer the cuts to get the budget that you seem to say you want to prioritize for the defense. For I am already telling you that the position of our Government is that it has to take care of both. We must have the necessary conditions as a country for us and with the partners we are working with to fulfil our commitments, but at the same time to be with the citizens, as is the case with the aid plans that are channelling for the benefit of the citizens. They call for increased military aid to Ukraine. Mr. Hispan - now that I see you here - was very funny because he dared to set the military artillery caliber that we had to send. I wonder if you care equally about the needs of our armies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, in the interpellation we were first insulted and now all they have proposed is a motion of the obvious, of the fact and of what we are doing. So, I hope you will work a little longer and meet the commitments, because Spanish citizens need a constructive spirit and not a partisan use of all the strategies that, unfortunately, millions of innocent people are suffering as a result of the war. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Tarno Blanco, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u133	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u134	All right. The vote will take place on their terms. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting for proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Republican, Organic Parliamentary Group amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, to extend the right of active suffrage to those over 16 years of age. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 67 against, 218 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u136	The proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - OF THE PLURARY PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FOR THE REFORM OF LAW 5/2019 OF 15 MARCH, REGULATOR OF CONTRACTS OF IMMOVABLE CREDIT. [[File number 122/000172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u137	Proposition of law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, for the reform of Law 5/2019, of 15 March, Regulator of Real Estate Credit Contracts. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 60 against, 228 abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u138	The proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u139	Agreement for the direct and single reading of legislative initiatives. Agreement for the direct and single reading of the draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 279 against, 60 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-09-27-CD220927.u140	It is agreed that the above-mentioned bill will be dealt with directly and in one reading only. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and five minutes of the night.
