ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the item on the debate on the whole of the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2023. In the course of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, which will accumulate in this turn its time of replication, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor, first of all. [[Rumors]] I ask you, please, to occupy your seats and to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u2	President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start by telling a small story that happened in the United States. In 1954 the sect of Dorothy Martin speculates that December 21 will be the end of the world and some extraterrestrials will rescue them. Psychologist Festinger reads the news and decides to infiltrate the sect; he wants to confirm his theory of cognitive dissonance and see how his followers react when that does not occur. How do you think they'll react? Will they accept your mistake? It would be reasonable, but they have a lot of faith and they can't. They can't. They make up all kinds of excuses and become more fanatical. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you look a little like the members of that sect. They have become prophets of the apocalypse. They vacitate all kinds of calamities, such as the end of this government or the collapse of the economy, and, worse still, they strive to make them a reality by boycotting European funds in Brussels, boycotting all anti-crisis measures, and when their prophecies are not fulfilled, they do not rectify, they become more and more fanatical. Do you know what your problem is? Reality and they have no choice. They don't make us an alternative proposal, they don't make us an alternative proposal! Well, yes, one: massive tax cuts, tax cuts to big fortunes. That's right, that's his panacea. That's why they applauded President Truss, the Brief, when she announced her financial program in Britain. And what happened then, when that program almost brought ruin to the country and made the president resign forty-five days later? Did they fix it? No, no, Mr. Feijodedefended that today a month ago in the executive of his party, then the excuses came and now they even tell us that they didn't say what they said. Ladies and gentlemen, truths can run marathons, but lies run very little. Forty-five days; forty-five days, ladies and gentlemen, is what has lasted his lie. The mirage of his neo-liberalism, which took place in Britain, has lasted less than Mr. Feijóo's supposed moderation. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that they accumulate many cases of cognitive dissonance. That's not the only one. I'll give you four examples. Do not rectify when Brussels follows the steps of this government in dealing with the energy crisis. They do not correct when the Iberian exception allows us to have the cheapest light in Europe. Do not rectify when experts or international bodies positively value this Government and the Spanish economy. Do not rectify when we have the lowest unemployment rate in years, an unprecedented membership of Social Security, a record of indefinite contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a problem with reality and are more stubborn than Jehovah's Witnesses. The crisis, the pandemic or the war have brought down all neo-liberal dogmas, but you are still in your bubble, worshiping MiltonFriedman, repeating the same mantras on the altar of your catechism, as if by repeating them you would be transformed into reality. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u4	Do you know what your worst enemy is? Reality. Reality is his worst enemy. The reality of a Government, the first in many years, able to approve in time and form all its budgets, three consecutive. The reality of a strong government, the most stable for a decade, despite the fact that we are in crisis, and that it is Europe's vanguard in economic recovery. We have many discrepancies with the Socialist Party, it is true, but we are here. The coalition is in full form, and you are again and again colliding against that reality, and the problem that you are out of reality, unlike Dorothy Martin's sect, whose prophecies were not very dangerous for the rest of the citizenry, is that yours are dangerous; your doctrine of shock, your fiscal secessionism in Madrid, is dangerous. Lowering taxes on big fortunes does not cause any more wealth, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what's causing it? The closure of the corner outpatient clinic, that's what causes, waiting lists in hospitals, unbuilt schools, collapsed administrations. Lowering taxes on the rich is to collect less and threaten the main lifesaver in times of crisis, than is public, the welfare state. That is the case in the United Kingdom, Spain and the whole world; Europe has understood it, Truss has understood it, Ursula von der Ley has understood it, international bodies, like the IMF, have understood it, sensible right-wing economists have understood it. Everyone has understood this, except you and your partners, who live isolated, who live totally disconnected from reality, immune to reality. Yesterday we saw him with Mrs. Gamarra, disconnected from reality and wanting to repeat the same mistakes of 2008. Yesterday, when I was listening to Mrs Gamarra talk about the workers who were in poverty, I thought: but what a face she has, but if you sent more than 8 million workers to poverty or unemployment, but if you said from here - one of your deputies said - fuck the unemployed, and we all heard it. [[Rumors]] Yeah, fuck it, give it to them. And yesterday you were talking to us about public debt, when 30% first went up with you and then, with Rajoy, a hundred percent, while you were making austerity law and cutting pensions, rights, public services. That's very difficult, but they did it. That's a thyme, that's the Iberian thyme of the People's Party. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a social shield that serves to protect millions of people with labour reform, with ERTs, with new rights, such as the unassigned nursing, such as minimum living income, such as the ban on evictions or cuts in supplies during the COVID, with unprecedented support for self-employed people, up-to-date pensions, reinforced public services, rents in the light or public transport. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know the difference between you and us? It's that you rescue banks and we rescue people, you rescue the big defrauders with amnesty and we rescue people, so these budgets are expansive. Never before had so much money gone to dependence, education, health or ecological transition, to the popular classes or to the middle classes. Roosevelt said: the proof of progress is not that those who have much more have more, the proof of progress is that those who have too little have more, have enough to live. In the 1929 crisis that was precisely the idea of Roosevelt, the New Deal, an ambitious program to free citizens from fear and need. Now we return to a historical moment equivalent to that of then and, as then, we face new challenges, such as ecological, because, as then, nothing will be the same, the crisis is transforming the world. And in this context there is a key question: Who pays the bill? Who pays for it? In 2008, with you, it was the workers, the middle classes, the usual ones, 99%, and that's why we went out on the street, that's why the 15M came up, to say enough cuts. That's why Unidad Podemos emerged, to say it's enough to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong. That is why we are outraged when you point to those below, to the different, to the newly arrived, so that we do not see those above, to the elites, to the great economic powers that pollute and destroy the planet. That is the message of these budgets and of this Government, that this bill cannot be paid by the usual ones, they laud that to pay the electrics, the banking or the great fortunes, but not the middle classes or the popular classes. That is the difference between you and us: with you, the bankers are rescued; with us, the people are rescued. [[Applauds]] That is why many thanks to those who have understood that these budgets give certainty to 99% of the population and thus avoid the fear, which results in hatred among citizens, which is the breeding ground of the extreme right. Thanks to the PNV, to More Country, to Bildu, to Esquerra and to all who have understood and allow to process these budgets. Thanks also to those who have made it possible, to Mary Jesus Montero especially. Mary Jesus, without you nor these budgets - I already praised you last year - nor surely the coalition would be possible. Thanks also to those who have fought for the measures that accompany this agreement, such as the Statute of the Fellowship, such as support for families with children under three years of age, such as the right to work leave as a painful rule. Thank you, Yolanda Díaz, Ione Belarus, Irene Montero and all the ministers and ministers of this government. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, four words to social movements, trade unions and organised civil society. Don't leave us alone. We have come here thanks to you and we need you to keep moving, we need you to regulate rental prices with the first housing law. If it was possible with the price of gasoline, public transport, gas or masks, it is also possible with abusive rents. Do not leave us alone while the great economic powers try to curb this advance, like other advances. Be demanding with us and mark the way for us, for with you it is possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u6	Good morning. These are the third budgets of the coalition government, and if the former had to deal with a pandemic and the latter with the need for recovery, in these, given the context of the war in Ukraine, the increase in energy prices and the increase in inflation, the urgency of the vocation to protect families has prevailed, and protecting families is something that any group in this parliamentary arc can say, but we are not all going to do the same or have the same understanding. When this coalition government says in its budgets that it wants to protect families, it speaks of all families in their plurality and diversity, looking at those who need greater protection, and we do so by raising the spending limit to a historical record to raise social spending. If we compare it with the last budget of the Rajoy era, we raise it by 53%. That means that 6 out of 10 euros will go to social spending. And what does this mean? A 62% increase in education expenditure, 29.6% in health expenditure, 74.1% in culture, 23% in research and development. I tell you more, the independence budget has been increased by 152 % and the unemployment benefit has been improved by ending the cuts in the PP, which in 2012 reduced them to 50 %. Of course, this, with a tax reduction to those who have the most, in that capitalism of friends that so much practice the People's Party in government, cannot be done. But, as you know, you have already stopped taking out the less taxed posters - that yesterday the most biting press said how much money goes in pen cardboard from those slogans when the reality itself goes to you to roll over -. But you didn't have to look at the UK either, you just have to have a little bit of memory. The Government of the mysterious M. Rajoy increased the debt by more than 31 points of GDP and dismantled the welfare state with a reduction in pensions, contributory benefits, cuts in education, health care, an increase in taxes on the working class and a tax amnesty that benefited people - wow!- like Rodrigo Rato. What's going on? Faced with the question of what could go wrong, there is no possible rhetoric, but many precarious lives, damaged, devastated, that a democracy cannot be allowed. So these budgets come with a vocation to protect all families, and that's just - listen to me well - from a gender perspective - yes, it is - putting care and the common things in the center, and these budgets do. The gender impact report of the 2023 budgets reveals that 98% of the programmes analysed are gender sensitive and of those 20% are gender sensitive. Do you remember the three right-wing when it looked like 20,319 million to you? For now it is 57 018 million euros of these general budgets that have a high gender impact. [[Applauds]] And before I have the right-wing bench ready to make scarecrows - although I don't think so, because they haven't woken up too much - I'll explain what this means. It means that families with child-rearing benefits between 0 and 3 years old are helped; that single-maritime families with two children are equated to large families; real investment in dependency, as we have said; increased social spending, and that if we lower taxes that are regressive, those that affect almost half of the population, with the fall in VAT for menstrual management products and contraceptives; increase in all pensions, contributions and non-contributory bad calls; increase in minimum living income according to the CPI; increase in IPREM, increase in the thermal social bonus on the basis of vulnerability criteria, which will benefit 1.2 million households, and extension of the public transport allowance, which benefits two million people; care for health; promote education; facilitate access to housing and, of course, also a firm commitment to combating sexist violence, both budgetary and legislative, and to combat the gender gap between women and men. I wonder, would it be possible to have a gender impact like that of these budgets without a Ministry of Equality that would have resisted infamy and defamation without shaking his conviction? Let us think about this when within a few years it seems impossible that the rights of trans people, of the LGBTI community, are not enshrined in our legal system, when we think about how biology is used today, as journalist Hibai Arbide points out, to justify transphobia now, just as slavery, racism or machism were justified at the time. But you are more of that concept, also so biological, of the culture of effort. I propose this that says the writer Gonzalo Torné: let us talk about the culture of effort, but without traps: without private education, without private health and without inheritances. There, if you want, we start playing. Ayuso says that youth, the same that has faced two crises and an adverse economic context being the objectively best-formed generation, does not know the culture of effort, and then Pérez Reverte says they are the generation of crystal. But it's funny, because from the first we don't know any effort linked to the work environment and the second we just hear him complain. Perhaps what happens is that Ayuso only makes policies for those of private health, private education and inheritance, and that Pérez Reverte feels nostalgia for any time past not because he was objectively better, but simply because he was younger. We, to that generation, say to them that we recognize their worth and do not want their capacity and wishes to be forced to emigrate; that they develop their lives here, and that is why we increase public funds for young people by 13,2 % compared to the previous year and extend aid of 250 euros for the rental of housing for young people. They are budgets that want to protect all families and all households, although yesterday the spokesman of the People's Party - which is not here today -, before they started dancing the figures and also the comas, said that they did not protect the working class. One hears the PP say they don't protect the working class and doubt, because for experience in not protecting... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u7	Forgive me for a moment, Mrs. Fernández. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u8	He said that one hears the PP say that these budgets do not protect the working class and, of course, doubt, because for experience not to protect the working class, that of the People's Party. However, it turns out that the AIReF this Tuesday published a study in which it reports that all these measures put in place to alleviate the effects of the price rise are having a redistributive effect. Now, tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the right and the right - because to the right the reactionary does not take away the neoliberal - what redistributive effect do tax amnesties and the 100 percent bonus of the property tax have? It's a rhetorical question, I don't miss being answered. And I don't want to leave without making three notes, as an Asturian - although I don't see my countryman - to the Forum spokesman, who seems important to me. He was struck yesterday that he spoke more of Catalonia than of Asturias, which I am not surprised at, given the attitude of his organization to a necessary reform for the popular and citizen sovereignty of the status of autonomy, which already touches, so I am not caught up with new ones. In any case and in justice, I will say that in your return amendment I mention some issues, another issue is that they go in the direction, in the sense that we think they have to go. It speaks of the North Round of Uviéu, considering it irresponsible that the project has stopped; quoting the mayor of Uviéu, of the People's Party: the need to drill Mount Naranco. In the context of an undeniable climate crisis, what is irresponsible, Mr Oblanca - not present at the moment - is an irreparable environmental damage, which will not solve any problem of movement in the city. [[Applauds]] And he was also talking about CREDINE as something stalled and unclear about what it was originally. The Barros centre has been the subject of the Ministry of Social Rights since the first day; it is open, it is functioning and, in addition, it will be the state reference centre we need. I'm going to set an example - and it's not that I'm much of this, from going to Mass on Sundays -, it seems that this is like when the parish priest fights those who attend Mass for those who don't attend. You see, you have been ruling with the People's Party - and I say so to you too, Mr Oblanca - and you have done absolutely nothing for the centre of Barros. But in some way I do give Mr.Oblanca the reason. It is true that there is a low execution for Asturias of the budgets of the previous year, and there I believe that who has to be the first valiant and the first to demand that budget execution - I say this from the cordiality, as he knows - is the president himself, Adrian Barbón, so that the work for Asturias can effectively reach the Asturians and the Asturians. I'm closed now, President. Budgets will make effective tools to guarantee the rights of citizens. I like a phrase from Gloria Steinem, which is very useful to explain to suspicions what feminism is. Feminism is not to divide the cake between the two sexes, it is to make a new cake. I believe that the budgets are precisely not to be divided between tensions of those who have power, but to make a new social contract in which all rights are guaranteed effectively and agree with this moment in which we live and the defence of democratic principles. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u10	Thank you, President. Among the many falsehoods that the right said yesterday, one of Mrs Arrimadas stressed: that while public pensions had risen by 40% - indeed, by decision of the government - young people's salaries had risen by only 3% - also by decision of private companies -. Citizens hold the Government responsible for employers not raising wages. Class unions - the Workers' Commissions and the General Workers' Union - demand that employers raise wages according to the real CPI to guarantee the purchasing power of workers, but the employer refuses and blocks the renewal of the agreement for employment and collective bargaining in which wage increases are established for the next three years. The employer refuses to agree wage review clauses that raise wages according to inflation, but fortunately, this country has coherent unions, which fight to guarantee decent wages to millions of workers who depend on a decision by the employer to make their wages decent. If the CPI is at 8.9% and the average salary increase this year is 2.9%, we are not facing a decent increase. In Europe, wages rise by 4.1% and, for example, in Portugal, they have risen by 5.6 %. In Spain, the loss of purchasing power of private sector wages by business decision is 6.4%, while in French it is 3.4%. And the employer has blamed wages for a second round of inflation, and that's false and offensive. The wages of the workers of the Spanish private companies have not risen so much as to cause inflation. Inflation has one responsibility: the indecent rise in the profits of many companies. There are fruits that have risen up to a hundred percent. Does anyone believe that the wages of supermarket workers or the price paid to producers have risen not even half of that percentage? Bank Santander or Iberdrola record profits: until September, 7300 million profits the bank and 31 billion electricity. Of course they have enough money to raise their workers' wages according to inflation, but they don't. For this reason, the coalition government is going to introduce a tax on the extraordinary profits of banks and energy to finance the vital needs that workers cannot always pay with these racist wages. It is the taxes that are paid by those who are rich in this crisis, those who have the most, those that will allow these general budgets of the State to invest social and labour policies for the social majority: in the revaluation of pensions, in the increase of the minimum income and wages of public employees, in the scholarships, in the extension of the young rental bonus, in the free subsidies of Renfe or in the thermal social bonus; more resources for health and dependence, and to recover the protection for unemployment, cut by Rajoy in 2012. We know that wages are not going to grow by 9% this year, but in this year and beyond it is necessary to give the certainty that they will rise and that the workers will regain the lost purchasing power. Therefore, on November 3rd Madrid must be filled with dignity, with workers from all over Spain responding to the call of the Workers' Commissions and the UGT, because their rights, the workers, have always managed to fight them; no one has ever given them to anyone. I hope that the huge demonstration to be held on 3 November in Madrid will be a success. The right is only concerned about benefiting the richest and insulting the intelligence of our people by saying that taxes are left to the Government. They are used to strengthen the social state, to protect families and people living from their work. We shall vote not on all your amendments in full. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. Finally, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. After years of neoliberal orthodoxy, after years of State emptying and after years of budgetary violence, especially in this country, because it must be remembered that cutting in health, cutting in education or cutting in social protection at a time of crisis is, implicitly, generating violence against those who most need it, has had to arrive a double crisis, first with the pandemic and then with a war and, above all, a plural and courageous government, in order to give other with the dogmas of neoliberal economic policy systematically applied in the previous political cycle in this country with the People's Party. As far as these budgets are concerned, I believe that it is clear - and has already been said - that they are the consolidation of a coalition government, a government that has been besieged, I would even say that wildly besieged for three years, and that, nevertheless, it has proved capable, from plurality, from dialogue, from cooperation and from the understanding of bringing to this House three accounts in three years' term of office that have exponentially projected the wages, borne by the interprofessional minimum wage against the wage devaluation that would apply to the right, that have projected public investment and that have consolidated social protection against the prescriptions of austerity, impoverishment and attack on the public services to which we were accustomed in the years of the governments of the People's Party. The result is clear: compared to the eleven years and ten months that it took to recover the levels of social security membership in the previous crisis, in this crisis we have recovered them in fifteen months. In short, the important thing of this draft State Budgets Bill that we are discussing is that it includes increases in items absolutely fundamental to protect the economy and families; it includes an increase in pensions according to the CPI; it includes an increase in the IPREM up to EUR 600; it includes an increase in assistance subsidies up to EUR 480; and it includes the recovery of 60% of the contribution base for unemployment benefits, which the People's Party had cut wildly. On the other hand, these budgets are a boost to our fundamental economic sectors, to industry, to agriculture, to fisheries, to food, to development and to research. We're talking about the cuts being reversed. We are talking about an 18% increase in agriculture and fisheries; a record investment in industry, trade and tourism with 10,030 million euros; and a record investment in R & D+i reaching 3991 million euros. With regard to my country, my Galicia, I believe that it is clear that expenditure on social policies, pensions, contributory and non-contributory benefits will increase, in short, in social policies that go directly to the deflation of the defence of the interests of Galicians and Galicians. Investments in all aspects of infrastructure strengthen this Government's commitment to Galicia. I have already ended with a question that I believe many citizens have asked themselves with relief in these years and that we have to ask ourselves: what would have happened if in a context as difficult economically and socially as the one we have experienced, the lords of cuts, austerity and violence against society had ruled? That we'd have a much worse scenario. We therefore approve these budgets and continue to work to consolidate this democratic and progressive bloc that is governing and leading this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Denial]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u14	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. The first thing we want to say about these general state budgets is very obvious: as an independentist party that we are, they are not our budgets. They are not our budgets because they continue to perpetuate a model of state that is not ours, has not been or will be. A State that, on too many occasions, more than serving the citizenry uses it to maintain the privileges of the usual. Nor is it supposed to have a marked militarist accent and for the exaggerated increase of the defence parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, they increase military spending, but they have not dared to go to the root of inequalities. Their economic policies are just parks, not rights; and when the left turns social policies into charity, instead of real redistribution, it actually makes right. We have lived since the beginning of the legislature in a situation of permanent social emergency that has been aggravated and without good prospects by a war that has led to an exaggerated increase in the prices of commodities and commodities. At the moment, many households in the Spanish state have to make real dramatic decisions: pay the receipt of the light or pay the mortgage, fill the refrigerator or pay the mortgage. And winter is coming. The OECD has again lowered growth prospects for Spain for the coming year. However, you, once again, make sure that the king and his family are the ones who have no trouble paying for the light, who are allocated the irreducible and millionaire departure of more than 8 million euros for their enjoyment. And, despite the vulgar attempt to be transparent, no one ever explains what expenses are hidden in other ministries and which serve only the head of the State. Rule who rules, in Spain always wins the monarchy. [[Applauds]] We recognize, however, that some positive measures are introduced in these budgets and are in the right direction, but that, in our view, they are insufficient. In our view, budgets adapted to the complex reality that we live in should lay the foundations for structural change in order to put an end to the fact that we have a strong state with the weak and weak with the strong. These budgets should be accompanied by other structural measures, such as limiting rent prices, policies that facilitate young people's access to the labour market and decent housing, changing to an energy model of proximity and community versus the Spanish oligopolistic model, adequate local funding, decently supporting basic services or a deep tax reform to redistribute wealth and alleviate social emergency situations. Let me go to the concrete and review some ideas that we want to highlight on these budgets. It is a good thing that the corporate tax is reduced from 25% to 23% for SMEs. That's fine with us. In fact, it is a claim that we have always made, but we miss out on measures to end the comparative aggravation that SMEs suffer from to large companies that have systematically taken advantage of tax engineering to end up paying much less proportionally. Let us recall cases such as the sanction on the part of the CNMC to six of the Spanish state's major construction companies for altering for twenty-five years - I repeat, for twenty-five years - thousands of public tenders for civil yobra buildings of infrastructure. It does not represent us at all an economy where he always wins the Bernabéu stage. [[Applauds]] These accounts incorporate provisions for the collection of new temporary taxes on energy and banking with a collection forecast of €3.5 billion. It is certainly an interesting statement of intent. However, if these temporary taxes, which we believe should be permanent, are created to deal with the consequences of war, we demand that in their approval this collection and management be for the autonomous communities such as those responsible for providing the main basic services to citizens. Measures to combat fraud and tax evasion by large companies and fortunes are not incorporated; they are indispensable to us. The conclusions of the Committee of Experts on Tax Reform recognized that one of the causes of the Spanish State's chronic lack of collection was tax fraud. It is therefore urgent to strengthen human resources designed to make it possible for the great fortunes of this country to pay what they are touched by. The data from the tax inspector's union are very symptomatic. Large state-owned companies account for 72 % of tax evasion, but only 20 % of finance technicians pursue them. David versus Goliath. In addition, they estimate that tax fraud causes an annual loss to the public sector of €60.6 billion for tax evasion. We recognize progress in the fight against energy poverty. In fact, the significant increase in the thermal social bonus seems good to us, but I have already said at the beginning that this oligopolistic model that governs the Spanish system is not ours and should undergo a profound reform. We miss, for example, the fact that no more funds are devoted to energy communities and to the democratization and socialization of energy. A fact for reflection. Environmental taxes, green taxation, represent only 5.1% of the total revenue of the Spanish State, indicating that the tax system is still far from European standards. We have heard it, Minister, these days, just in your speech, boast of the transformative nature of these budgets thanks to the high level of public investment. Well, if we look at the distribution of this investment, we see that they target defence-related programmes at 58.5% more than last year. And speaking of this ministry, we note that EUR 16 billion is earmarked for - I hope - support technological innovation in the defence sector. It is shocking, however, that only EUR 328 million is earmarked for health research. It seems that we have learned nothing from the crisis of COVID-19. We therefore propose that this Ministry of Industry fund for loans to companies in the military industry should be allocated to SMEs in this country, which receive only an additional EUR 166 million, with which it is falling. [[Applauds]] Speaking of public investment, and specifically territorial investment, budgetary investment in Catalonia amounts to 17.2% of the total, a little far from complying with the third additional provision of the Statute of Catalonia. And, by the way, it is not worth raising it to 19% by saying that the 200 million euros that have owed us for years are already going to be paid for the additional third of the statute, recognized by the Supreme Court's judgment. We're still talking about public investment. In Catalonia until 30 June, only 15.7% of the investment budgeted for this year 2022 had been implemented, 15.7%, according to the same data, minister. Unfortunately, we are on the same path as last year when only 35% of the total budget was implemented. Not to mention the aggravation suffered by the Valencian country, where deficits in the autonomous financing system cause their historical debt - of some EUR 40 billion - to force them to allocate 30% of their budget to the payment of this debt. It is clear that in this field we can no longer trust you, minister, we cannot trust you. They always fail, always, and always punish the same. Confidences need to be rebuilt on a different basis. Its credit has already been completed, and it is essential to create a guarantee mechanism for a correct level of execution of the State's investments in Catalonia. This is not the case if we are independent, if we are constitutionalists, if some are nationalists, this is not the case; it is the case that the first to comply with their own laws must be the same government. [[Applauds]] At this point, let me remind myself of the administrations that deal directly with citizens, where the nearest policy is made and often means a first or a last resort to many. Let's talk about municipalities and local authorities. As always, you with the municipalities, one of lime and one of sand. Transfers to municipalities are increased by 2%. That's 279 million euros, a good figure, but then they have to assume the officials' expenses up to 3.5%, and that's 646 million euros. Therefore, a balance sheet at least questionable. As a municipalist party we are, we will always defend the improvement of the skills and resources of the municipalities. I have been mayor of my people and many of you have also had responsibilities in the local administration and know as well as I do that the municipalities are often the great forgotten even though, as the administrations closest to the citizenry, they are the ones who know the reality most and those who can best provide public services. You see, the reasons for registering and voting on an amendment to these budgets as a whole were many and well-founded. But we want to bet on responsibility and we want to bet on being useful to people and this is about putting our votes and our negotiating force to work to improve these budgets, to articulate political proposals that make life easier for people, to improve at this very difficult time the conditions of the working and middle classes of society. The negotiation has done nothing but start and we will be ambitious and demanding, as always. A reflection that seems important to us. Contrary to what some are trying to understand, not negotiating these budgets would not cause the monarchy to fall at all; not negotiating these budgets would not bring down the 1978 regime, would not cause it to fall; not negotiating these budgets would only result in the extension of the previous ones or the attempt to adopt them with an alternative majority more hostile to the interests of Catalonia. In this case, therefore, like others in life, not negotiating means losing. [[Applauds]] We have another reason to continue to give opportunities to negotiation. We won the elections and we are the main Catalan party in this Congress with a very clear proposal: to build a democratic solution to the conflict that is taking place in Catalonia with the Spanish state. We have the responsibility and the duty to fight to gain rights and advance the judicialization of the conflict. Thousands of people continue to be retaliated today in Catalonia by the Spanish state for the simple fact of being independent and the solution goes through politics. This is not only what Esquerra Republicana says, it is also believed by 80% of Catalan society, and so have the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the UN Human Rights Committee. Yesterday, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe issued a very interesting report saying that defending the independence of a region of Europe from its State through peaceful means is based on freedom of expression and that under no circumstances should it be persecuted and punished. You decide whether you are next to 80% of Catalonia's citizens and what the international community or the PP and VOX are telling us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if approved, these will be the last budgets of the legislature, it depends on you whether or not you are the last of the left in Moncloa, who knows if in many years. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u16	Good morning, Mr. Margall. First of all, I would like to acknowledge your group's willingness to engage in dialogue. You in the rostrum have expressed many issues that we have been able to comment on before you tabled the amendment in its entirety. Therefore, I find everything known to me. In some of them you know that I do not share the last criterion, in others I think that during the processing process we will be able to continue to move forward, but I think that you have failed to say that these public accounts are positive for Catalonia, are good for Catalonia and now I will try to explain to you in this reply why. First, we knew that this is not a blank cheque; it has never been a blank cheque to not submit an amendment to the whole or allow some law to begin its processing in this House, never. We have always had, as we colloquially said, to sweat the shirt throughout the processing, and on this occasion we also knew that this was going to happen. I believe that, although there are still subjects on which we can delve, we have already included in the draft budget some issues that were fundamental to you. You told me that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia is not fulfilled; I cannot share it, but I tell you why, Mr Margall. Chapter 7, which is usually not reflected in territorial investment, I think that more and more would be reflected, because it is the autonomous governments that demand that an agreement be made by transferring the money and that it is not directly the State administration, in this case in compliance with the additional provision, that proposes the execution of the investment in Catalonia. Of course, this is a contradiction. If we do not add that part which gives it compliance with the statute of autonomy, there will be difficulties in continuing to transfer money through chapter 7, which corresponds to investments that the State is developing in Catalonia. That is why I say that I think it is fair to take this heading into account - and I want to say it very clearly - because it had a fairly well-defined line that if the budget did not include respect for the statute there would be no possibility that you would allow that to happen. I have taken note of some of the issues that you have said, primarily with regard to fiscal policy, which I would like to conclude that we share in a global way; what are the accents on those who have the greatest capacity being asked to do more at this time. I know that you propose that these temporary taxes are already believed to be definitive taxes - we will have time for that processing and for that negotiation - but, without a doubt, both in the family and in the company what we do is to demand a greater effort from those who have greater capacity and to lower the tax burden for those who have less capacity, so that the net balance remains a contribution that allows us to finance more effectively the whole of public services. You have not mentioned, and I want to say this to you, when you were talking about SMEs versus large companies, that there is also the impossibility of applying tax credits to large consolidated groups charging EUR 200 million during the year 2023. This, Mr Margall, which may seem to be simply literature, has a very important effect on the profit and loss accounts of these groups, because this decision means that they will not be able to apply subsidiary losses during the year 2023, so we carry the return on corporate tax towards quotas I would say that much more effective, much higher given the time required. With regard to the implementation of investments, we have also had the opportunity to discuss this issue over the previous months. You remember that, as a result of last year's budgetary agreement, we are a follow-up group of investments. I think we need to be self-critical, the group should have met more often in order to be able to follow up more accurately on each of the steps that have hampered the development of these investments. We must continue to intensify this issue, but, Your Honor, the problem of implementation, of course being a matter of review, is not exclusive to the General Administration. In fact, the data we have known about the Generalitat de Catalunya are quite similar. Why? For a lewdness of the administrations? No; definitely not. It is because the moment we are living has produced a very important increase in raw materials, has proven that many construction companies have had difficulties in supply because, you remember, there have been problems during the first part of the year with regard to supply in the production chains of many of the industries and, therefore, there are some causes that explain the general delay that public administrations are experiencing in investment. But I would insist, Mr Margall, that it is obviously an element that we need to improve and quite precisely for the future. Some formula can be seen throughout the process, especially for those investments that may be more important, that allow us to co-execute those investments - as we have done with other autonomous governments and, in particular, we have been doing with the Basque Country -, that we should also be all participants and put all the machinery, both of the autonomous community and of the State, at the service of those investments, which are more important; they are all, but there are some that are of particular interest to the Government as well. Your Honor, I would also like to say that, if you see the data until September that the IGAE publishes on how the execution of the investment behaves - and I believe that is a difference from the previous year - we have to stress thatCataluña is the community that has a greater volume of execution of the investment. I am not saying that this is enough, I am saying that Catalonia's investment volume was sometimes compared with other autonomous communities and it was EUR 13 billion that led to budgetary implementation in Catalonia at levels that, of course, are far higher than we had the previous year. Of course I do not tell you what it means in other budget chapters. We're just talking about investment. It is clear that, in housing policy, in policy of transfers of other resources, budget implementation reaches one hundred per cent and is sometimes even above that one hundred per cent. I therefore believe that it is very important that we continue to insist on this idea and, Mr Margall, I am convinced that, despite the general difficulties, we will achieve a higher level of implementation in the coming years. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u18	And, in particular, we must be accountable to the parliamentary groups which agree on certain items, certain amendments, and which are therefore legitimate to move that what is being carried out is actually being achieved. And I think it is good that we are following up not only on investments, but also on the commitments that are being made with their political formation, commitments that are being ignored, that are transparent - despite what some say - and that will therefore lead us to achieve one hundred per cent of implementation. I'll give you a tip, Mr. Margall. 74% of the commitments we made with your group last year are under implementation. And this is very important, not only because of the exclusive amendment that you are proposing, but also because of your signature with other political groups in another set of amendments. Similarly, Your Honor, you referred to the fact that they do not share the weight that some items have in the budget, specifically defence spending. They have also made it clear to us, just as you have commented on it today in the rostrum. And I want to tell you that it seems to me that the twenty-first century is going to change considerably the very concept of security that we traditionally had by governments. This is not about investing in bombs, as someone said yesterday, or investing in war material. Firstly, it is a question of investing in hybrid technologies, therefore, of dual use, which allow them to be used for other purposes. It is a matter of having learned that, of course, all States must be prepared to face an attack on the territorial integrity, the sovereignty of any country, after what we have known in Ukraine and after those atrocities that are being perpetrated by Russia. On the other hand, it is also a matter of providing the defence industry in our country with a greater capacity to generate employment. This means that from the hand of that greater endowment in defence spending, what is going to happen is an increase of up to 22 000jobs in companies in sectors that I am convinced you protect, as can be Navantia, Airbus, Indra, some in your autonomous community, and that are very important, because you know that you bring added value to that set of workers who are in that environment. This, Mr Margall, I think we must also take this into account, and we are prepared to talk to you and the other political groups about how defence should be strategically in the future. I am convinced that, beyond the pacifist spirit that we have all the political forces, we all believe that any State must have sufficient security, that it can maintain its territorial integrity and deal with any aggression it may pose. In addition, the applications of this investment developed in this environment, which is of high technological base, can be used in other sectors as classically, it has traditionally passed with the defence sector, because it knows that its research framework has been a precursor to many other technological applications aimed at medicine or aimed at other areas of knowledge that have been able to take note of these advances in this issue. I know that I am not going to convince you that the budget has to have these weights, but at least I do want you to understand that when the Executive incorporates them it does so on the basis of this firm conviction. Therefore, beyond our commitments to the rest of the partners of other partnerships that we have established, it seems very important to us to be able to orient them towards national industry and hybrid technologies that are applied in other sectors and that may also be of interest. Your Honour, you have not made any reference, but I believe that your Government will appreciate some of the investments that have recently been approved and that are not included in the budget, so we will have to look for adequate funding in order to make them a reality. I am referring specifically to the Barcelona-Marsella pipeline. I think this is going to be an investment that is going to be a new opportunity so that, in addition to promoting strategic autonomy, in this case in green hydrogen, we have the capacity to make a knowledge pole, an industrial pole, an investment pole from that infrastructure. And its autonomous community, in particular, I think it will have a clear benefit with the start-up of this infrastructure. I say that it is not reflected in the general budgets of the State, because the commitment to the French Government, as you well remember, has been later, and to Portugal, has also been later. If I want to emphasise it will be an opportunity for that vocation that your community has to be a reference in renewable energy, in this case the storage and transport of green hydrogen. Undoubtedly this connection, this pipeline, appears as an investment, which is very good news for the whole of Spain, but particularly for Catalonia, as I think you share. Your Honor, there are other investments that, although they do not come in the territorialized chapter, have to do with the recognition of a number of public events that are going to occur in your community, as we have done in previous years: the new edition of the Mobile in Catalonia, which has a very important part of the tax benefits that are granted in this budget; the Plan Milliarium Montserrat 1025-2025; the anniversary of the construction of the High School Theatre, which also has a very important part of tax benefits, or the 50th anniversary of the Sant Joan de Déu Hospital, which is also collected within the general budgets as an event of general interest and which will be favored with those benefits that accompany your statement. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that we have fulfilled what we had committed to Catalonia. In addition, we are going to have a few games that you have not had the opportunity to mention, but that you share one hundred percent of your group, because I think you feel comfortable with those left-wing policies that this government is pursuing and that, beyond what they imply for Catalonia, they also have to do with progress in workers' rights, with the protection of vulnerable people - you mentioned some of them -, with the upgrading of pensions - which, of course, also refer to pensioners in Catalonia and which I believe your group shares - with the 8.5 increase in minimum living income, and also with the protection of people who have fewer resources, which I understand you share too. Therefore, Your Honor, I think it is a budget that, beyond the different ideas that we have about how our country's territorial architecture has to be, as far as public policies are concerned, general policies are perfectly visible on the part of your group, they share it and do not provoke them, beyond what you have commented on defence spending, any inconvenience when it comes to approving these public accounts. Finally, I would like to say, Mr Margall, that we are still engaged in dialogue. I believe that your group knows this and, as some spokesman of other independent groups in this House said yesterday, I believe that the usefulness of political work is something that is required in the times we live in; we are not here only to express ideas in the rostrum, but, to the extent that everyone can, we must try to develop the possibility that it crystallizes concrete proposals that will allow us to move forward at a pace, that you certainly do not define as a correct pace, according to your expectations, but that I believe it is much more than we had a few months ago. There is another kind of debate in which the President of the Government has been very clear, such as the situation of coexistence in Catalonia, where he has always very clearly moved the Government's will to approve, in accordance with European standards, the qualification of certain offences in our country; an aspect which, you know, not being part of this budget chapter, is a firm commitment of the President of the Government and which, therefore, we will bring to this House, which, of course, will have to decide on this question sovereignly, from respect for the way in which we each have, with the capacity of agreement or dialogue on specific issues and, of course, ladies and gentlemen, with the commitment of the President of the Government, which, I insist, is not the subject of this debate, but has been the subject of the debate of the State of the Nation on various occasions. I would like to reiterate to you again the words of President Sánchez a few days ago that, in fact, we have to work on the amendment of certain criminal figures which, in the view of this Government, are covered by the Criminal Code in a way that is not comparable to other similar figures which may exist in the European legal system. We will work, I insist, in another environment, which is not this debate, and in this debate we will devote ourselves, as always, to discussing, that not to fight, throughout the process, so that the final result of this budget allows us to have a favourable vote, having very clear that giving way to the process, as you well said at the beginning of your speech, is simply the beginning, as always, of a long and often tiring journey. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u20	Thank you, President. Minister, I only have five minutes. You have said many things, and I am going to refer to two or three ideas of which you have said in your speech. I have recognised you progress in these budgets, I have recognised them. You said they're good for Catalonia; well. It says that the third DA of the Statute of Catalonia is fulfilled; here we differ. It tells us that it meets almost 70% of the commitments of this 2022 that it had with us; I accept it. There are two main areas: the commitments we had in the form of a transfer and many other things, which are being implemented in a good way, and the budget implementation, which we have already talked about, which is another, which is not being implemented. By the way, an important part is the 200 million euros of the Supreme Court ruling that were budgeted. Until a week ago, this game wasn't transferred. I think it would be good and desirable for all of us today to give the order to transfer this item, because it would also show that there is a desire for things to work and that in the coming weeks we will be working and moving forward to create this climate of confidence that must lead us to an agreement. [[applause]] I am grateful for the willingness to transform temporary taxes on energy companies and banks into permanent. I understand you were kind of saying this. If you have this arrangement, we talk about it and I'm sure we'll make a deal. By the way, you have not responded to the proposal I have made that this tax should be collected by the Autonomous Communities. In any case, we will also have the opportunity to talk about it in the coming weeks. In defense spending we're sure we won't agree. You tell me to invest in hybrid weaponry. If the hybrid weaponry is manufactured, it's to go to war, not to stay at home. Surely, if hybrid weapons were not reversed, not so many wars would be waged. They are not going to convince us that in order to achieve peace, much more must be invested in armaments; they are not going to convince the Republican Left. [[Applauds]] As for the implementation of investments, there was a follow-up group; we have met perhaps less than we should, but it has not worked. I am grateful for the willingness to reach an agreement to create a mechanism to guarantee compliance with investment decisions in Catalonia similar to that of the Basque Country. I appreciate that, and I think it's an important step. You have told me something like this: you, Mr Margall, use the figures a little at your leisure. But you do, too, Minister, because you say: EUR 13 billion has been executed in Catalonia. But of these 1300, there are 300 real ones, because 1 billion euros is the payment to Abertis for the fact that the tolls on the highways were finished. Therefore, this is not worth us as an investment, let us be clear with the figures. I accept the fact that the Generalitat has also carried out a very low percentage of its investments, I accept it, but I do not compare the Generalitat with the State, do not compare all the tools that you have as a State with the Minses tools that have an autonomous community like Cataluña when exercising your investments. That's why we want to be a state, that's why we're independent, to have all the tools you have to give better life to the people who live in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] And I'm ending up with a reflection that has nothing to do with you, but that seems interesting to me. For forty years, the State has failed to comply with Catalonia, has failed to comply with the People's Party or has ruled the PSOE, and in forty years, it has always been the Spanish Government's fault. Now I find it very strange that if the state does not comply with Catalonia, it is the Republican Left's fault. [[Applauds]] Doesn't that sound weird to you? It seems very strange to us. Nothing more. I don't have much time left. We could talk about a lot of other things. Today, while we were talking here, the EPA figure came out, which has increased by 68 000 people and there are already almost three million people standing in the Spanish State. We therefore have the opportunity during these weeks to reach political agreements to improve the lives of people and this country. And finally, minister, watch your voice, which is still a few weeks away from the end of this procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u22	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mr Margall, for the last piece of advice. I sure have; I've had a little bad voice for several days, but we'll hold it until the end of the session, and then I'll try to put it a little more to rest, which is the only cure that has laaphonia. I want to give you three thoughts. The first, I think, is that we need to analyse territorialized investment throughout the state, with Chapter 7. Autonomic governments every day demand more than a part of the works can be executed with their own administrative machinery. I imagine that your ladies and gentlemen are following the debate, although it may be technically a little complicated. Chapter 6, of territorialized real investment, is the one normally explored to see if it complies with the statutes of autonomy, and chapter 7, are transfers to other administrations to do the work in a convenient way, by a management order or by any administrative figure that allows the State to place the money and the one who receives it to carry out the investment. Every day, Mr Margall, we are called upon by your government and other governments, to facilitate investment, execution or for different reasons, to be made through capital transfers. But if the transfer of capital is not to be included in the analysis of which part is allocated to each territory, it is difficult for us to proceed with the way in which the budgets are analysed, which must be modernised every day. I think that for the next parliamentary term we need to think seriously about the whole budgetary procedure, so that we can really overcome some of the issues that were very well at a certain time, but that the strength of reality has changed, because it has been producing other circumstances that we live in the Government, in the autonomous communities or in the municipalities, from the very formula of establishing the limit of non-financial expenditure and moving away from the time of the beginning of the year, to other issues that I believe are going to be the subject - or at least that is my intention - of reflection and analysis with your lordships, including territorialized investment and how Chapter 7 is envisaged in the analysis of that territorialized investment. In any case, I understand it's done. We can improve some of the items which you will have to move in the process of amendments. I am open to contemplating them, but I would like to leave that reflection, because it seems to me to be of enormous interest, given the voluntarity of the territories to be led by that path, and it cannot penalize the very analysis of the effort made by the State in each of the territories. Secondly, Mr Margall, defence expenditure does not compete with the rest of the budget headings. I know perfectly well that if that were not the case, you would have even allowed the whole amendment to be dealt with. For us to understand the citizens, an amendment cannot be tabled so that this expenditure goes to other items, because it does not compete, because it is not - and this is certainly technical - within the limit of non-financial expenditure. I would like to stress this because I know perfectly well that, if that were interchangeable, you would have demanded that the game be changed elsewhere. The only option is their elimination, not being able to use those resources in another environment. I think this also has to make us wonder whether the possibility of abounding in research that subsequently has applications in other sectors or the creation of jobs in a very important part of our country's industry is worth it. There may be a discrepancy, but we have to explain to people that this budget does not compete with the rest of the items that are aimed at social welfare, the drive of industry or the creation of jobs in our country. Simply, if they weren't, they wouldn't be, because they can't add to another issue. Third question, Mr Margall. Statistics are what they have. Sometimes, even though we strive to explain it, you move that commitment, execution or the degree of execution in investments, let's put, in Madrid are higher. But they are not exactly due to an investment execution and they have the same problem that you have commented on when it happens for Catalonia. You have to allow me to look at the statistics in the same direction, because, if not, if we do a different reading at every moment, we can never compare. Is the comparison good for anything? Yeah, to see if we can make it. It serves me paraesus, not to fight anyone with anyone, but to see if we actually move forward. We had to discuss that the execution in Madrid was higher and had an artifact - which is what we call it budgetaryly - similar to what you say; for now the artifact has another face. The compromise is clear. We need to find some formula, especially for some important investment, of those which we believe are strategic, which allows us to go to a figure of co-participation, deco-governance or co-management, and we have this whole process of amendments in order to be able to do so. If you call it performance guarantee, perfect, we call it as it is most convenient, because the mood of everyone, and more than one finance minister - you will understand - is that once resources are put in place to develop a budget, it is executed. I understand the frustration, but I want to tell you that mine is there too. If there is money put in, my intention is that it be implemented and, therefore, that it should not be incorporated again in later years, because that overburdens the budget for those years. So we are in the same line, in the same direction, and we continue to work on the set of proposals that are allowing this country to recover more quickly than it did with the recipes that are practiced from the right. Today we have seen data from the EPA - the latest Labour Force Survey - which show that 20.5 million people are employed in this country. This is the highest figure, Mr Margall, since 2008. You too have had something to do with this figure. Labour reform has managed to reduce time to 20%, according to the EPA survey, the most important historical minimum we have since the series was counted. Unemployment has fallen by 436 000 in the last quarter. I insist that I believe that they are good data for our country and that they are data shared with many political formations present in this House, with which, far from practicing that policy of how much worse, better, and despite its deep discrepancies on such important issues as territorial architecture, we have been able to advance in some matters that are allowing, and so I wish, the people of our country to live better. He also wanted to share it with his parliamentary group. We are in the process of amendments, which I hope, as always, is long and hard, but I am convinced and confident that in the end it will allow us to light up some amendments and, therefore, new public accounts that will be good for Catalonia, and if they are good for Catalonia, they are good for Spain as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u24	Thank you, President. Egun on. Today we are discussing the amendments to the entire draft general state budgets; a budget that has been drawn up in a context of uncertainty and in an environment, of course, particularly complex of economic policy: energy and supply crises, with unknown inflation leading to loss of purchasing power, deterioration of business costs, a shift in monetary policy with interest rates increases and the completion of the European Central Bank's liquidity estimates. As you know, the Basque Nationalist Party shares the need to provide stability to the institutions and to ensure that, in this case, the State has a consistent and solid budget for 2023, allowing it not only to carry out its programme, to order action and its economic and financial policy objectives, but also to address the energy, economic and social emergency resulting from the war in Ukraine, to fulfil the commitments made to society and the most vulnerable groups and, in turn, to generate sustained growth and stable employment to ensure the welfare state, to reduce inequality, social cohesion and to address the structural problems and challenges that persist in the economy so that it moves towards a productive, green, digital, egalitarian and sustainable model. [[The Lord]] It is a transformation of the economic model that should have taken off, perhaps more quickly and more quickly over the past year, as the state has had two extraordinary mechanisms since 2020: the safeguard of budgetary stability, the suspension of fiscal rules, the rule of expenditure and deficit agreed by Europe, and, in addition, the Next Generation funds. But, in order to have a budget backed by this political group, my group has been demanding - as you already know, minister - a climate of minimum trust; confidence to deal with any negotiation and explore the possibility of agreements; confidence that is based mainly on the implementation of the outstanding agreements, but also on the actions that each one is developing. I have to say that, in recent times, this relationship of trust did not go through much better time. I'll explain myself. For the Basque Nationalist Party, agreements with citizens, through our electoral programmes, are the guide of our political action in the State, whose priority objective is the development of the so-called Basque agenda and the defence of Basque interests in Madrid. This is about reaching agreements that will improve the lives of the Basques and citizens, not forgetting the rest of the state's territories. Because I want to remind you that it was an amendment of the PNV to the 2018 general budget, which involved the start of the revaluation of pensions to the CPI; raising the regulatory basis for widow's pensions to 56% in 2018 and 60% in 2019; and the suspension of the application of the pension de-sustainability factor to give time to the Toledo Pact in the search for a much fairer agreement that has now been implemented in part. We do so always; we did so during the pandemic and now also with the crisis derivative the war of Ukraine, participating and supporting practically all the proposals discussed in this House, to offer in difficult times a response to citizens, households and businesses. This Basque agenda has been translated into this legislature through the investment agreement signed in December 2019 and the extra-budgetary and budgetary agreements agreed by the Basque Group, the latter through amendments to the corresponding general State budgets. All this with lights and shadows. In the light section we could place the degree of implementation of the budgetary agreements, which we can now describe as satisfactory by the push given to many of them in recent weeks, thanks to an insistence on this last year by our group. On the shadow side, the centralist trend in the government's legislative agenda, especially in fiscal matters, also failing to comply with the investment agreement by which the Government had to agree with my group on fiscal measures or slow progress on issues that, for our group, are fundamental. They serve as an example of the difficulties existing in adapting new taxes to the fiscal powers of Euskadi and Navarra; or, beyond the fiscal sphere, the absence of real co-governance in the management of European funds; or the delay in fulfilling the transfer of powers agreed between the Basque and Spanish governments. [[The lady]] In addition, the draft general state budgets for 2023 do not have an adequate reflection for Euskadi in terms of public investment, a lever that we believe is key at the moment to economic growth and which, moreover, is complementary to the private sector because it stimulates productivity and generates innovation. While there appears to be an increase over 2022, this increase reflects the continuity of projects which had already been negotiated in 2022 or incorporated by EAJ-PNV, and which should therefore not be taken up as new investments, let alone renegotiated. We also note that certain measures are still pending as a result of the budgetary agreements of 2022, items that are not adequately reflected in the budget of 2023; in some cases because they have a lower budget and in others because they are staffed. There are also some delays in budgetary implementation in those items which are fundamental for the economic and social development of Euskadi and for the improvement of the security of the citizenry: in accessibility in the stations, in the elimination of steps at level, insufficiency in the frequencies of proximity or poor maintenance of the proximity lines. A clear example is the Bilbao-Karrantza line, which suffers daily incidences. All this, together with some questions about the forecasts on which the budget is based and the improved management of European funds, has necessitated dialogue and work to visualize progress and gestures to restore that confidence framework that was achieved at a first negotiating stage last Friday. Thanks to an agreement of my parliamentary group, today there is a commitment for the renewal of the five-year quota law in the same parameters as the current one, which was agreed with a PP government for the period 2017-2021, and with the adjustments that were subsequently incorporated. A law so that, within our autonomy and fiscal co-responsibility, Basque citizens have the resources to carry out their public policies. Certainty and legal certainty, therefore, in times of economic instability. In this way, Basque institutions will be able to launch policies, for what? To combat unemployment, for the energy crisis, strategies for young people, to support industry, the self-employed, to have good public services, to have good social services in education, housing or health, and to deal with this economic situation. That is the quota, although some parties seem to forget it; we already hit yesterday. A unilateral risk tool that involves a high level of responsibility for the institutions in managing their resources, because we depend on our own collection to develop all these public policies for the benefit of Basque citizens. In addition, steps are being taken to comply with the investment agreement signed in December 2019. And now we're going to the budget. With regard to the large figures, once again and as is customary in this debate, ghosts are re-emerging over the predictions of the macro table supported by the doubts shown by some national and international bodies and the non-inflationary measures of the budgetary plan sent to Brussels. To have the most feasible and up-to-date forecasts possible is not to be expected, because on this basis income, expenditure and investment policies are being built; but it is also fair to recognise that, in the current context, making estimates and correcting is quite difficult. [[The Lord]] We share the concern about the government's expected growth difficulty of 2.1 by 2023, which differs from the forecasts of the main analysts, who agree that in 2023 the slowdown in activity will be significant and place their growth forecasts in a fork of 1%, according to BBVA, passing by 1.4% of the Bank of Spain, 1.5 of the AIReF and the OECD or 1.2 of the IMF. Disparities which, however, are found within the expected oscillations taking into account the uncertainty scenario in which we are moving: developments in the war in Ukraine; price of gas and raw materials; inflation; developments in debotella necks; degree of confidence of companies and individuals; global slowdown, especially in Germany and Italy, with great impact on the state economy; employment developments; embalmed savings, etc., which can affect the evolution of activity. In short, the variations in the economic context are very wide in order to be able to fine-tune growth forecasts, and it is as likely to sin optimistically as it is to sin catastrophically. We therefore believe that the performance of the budget will be assessed almost in real time so that, if the evolution of the economy is ultimately not in line with the Government's forecasts, appropriate measures can be taken so that, without triggering deficits or debt, they will allow - indeed - to meet the much more vulnerable population and the economic sectors most exposed to the crisis. As regards the forecasting of revenue and expenditure, we cannot deny that it is somewhat surprising that a second scenario has been sent to Brussels with more revenue and expenditure than those foreseen in the budget. We are therefore faced with a budget in which the revenues of 2022 have been undervalued - I think this is the first time that I see it on the part of a government, usually on the contrary - a budget which does not include the extension of those coming from expenditure which end on 31 December and which is expected to be extended, because it is the government itself who recognises the persistence of the circumstances that motivated them. Everything points out that this scenario is going to be used, because the threat to companies and the well-being of citizens is inflation and the fall of purchasing power. With regard to expenditure, it is contradictory, on the one hand, to talk about accounts with more resources to invest precisely in social expenditure, health care, dependency, social services or housing when the competences in these matters are in the hands of the autonomous communities, who deploy these policies and who must have budgetary allocations; and, on the other hand, to say that we are facing an expansive budget. It is true, but only in part, because it is basically for the implementation of the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism in the different parts of the ministries. And it's just that if we take them off, maybe the budget would be contractual. It serves as an example that industrial expenditure items, most of which are related to productive activity and competitiveness, are insufficient, barely grow in the current budget and are only increased by the incorporation of funds. Speaking of funds, much of the growth is attributed to a high level of implementation of the European Union Recovery and Resilience Mechanism funds and, in particular, to the PERTE, which foresees an impact of 2.6 points of the GDP; an optimistic forecast if we take into account the implementation history to date and that the expected impact of GDP for this year is already going to be lower than the forecasts announced in the general budget of 2022. A centralized recovery and resilience plan, moreover, which has not had real or effective co-governance with the rest of the administrations in its design and implementation - because governance is not making sectoral and informational conferences - which has made it difficult and difficult to implement, slowing down the achievement of the objective pursued: to transform the economic and productive model, to improve innovation and productivity and, with this, to combat the high underlying inflation, which is so little talked about and which is also unusually high. It would therefore be necessary to make progress in the redesign of the funds and of the PERTE in order to adapt them to the needs of the territories and sectors, as well as to the new inflationist context and to the increase in interest rates which are expected to increase funding in a year, 2023, which precisely and as the yellow book of the draft budgets shows will be the maximum deployment of reforms and investments. It would also be interesting to move forward with the rest of the administrations in order to set the criteria, conditions and access to these credits and to ensure that the administrations do not lose their decision-making capacity, particularly if the loans replace their debt capacity. The Government's forecasts also contributed to growth in the recovery of economic activity and the good performance of employment. True, there is a recovery of activity mainly due to the recovery of tourism and hospitality; however, not due to significant changes in the economic and productive fabric. On the other hand, in my group we have been pointing out that the collection - which is being extraordinary for inflation - must be taken as such. They are short-term income that cannot be used to meet structural costs, which will require monitoring of collection in the face of a slowdown in activity, business investment and consumption. Because the truth is that there are no large tax measures on the revenue side of this budget, and those that are included - we do not question their need - precisely do not stand out for increasing the capacity to collect in a structural way. We do not question banking and energy taxes in this context, but I remind you, Minister, that you will have to agree. By the way, with regard to tax increases and reductions, we are concerned that they are presented as an ardent race of tax changes, about who, how, when and what taxes are lowered or raised; their convenience and timing to address them, without providing any assessment of their impact on public investment, sustainability, economic growth, employment. And much less they obey any medium- and long-term fiscal strategy, they obey more of a media discourse. Reducing the debate on economic and budgetary policy to raise or lower taxes will be able to yield results in demoscopy, but, of course, we do not believe that it responds or obeys the economic context, let alone the current complexity in which the cost of the energy crisis for households and businesses must be contained and, in turn, the imbalances in the accounts must be contained, and in which that fiscal co-responsibility factor which combines fiscal responsibility with autonomy and sufficiency is forgotten. To maintain and guarantee public services. Finally, we must also not obviate the structural deficit, which is around 4%, which has to be paid through debt and which we are passing on to future generations. A debt that is not going to be resolved with tax parches, with temporary tax collections and expenditure increases; a debt that is already around 116 % of GDP with rising interest rates and which, probably, when these tax rules operate, is going to become that adjustment variable again, as happened in the 2008 financial crisis. It must therefore be considered and analysed in order to explore alternative ways to prevent this debt from strangling present and future economic and social progress. A bet. We are concerned about some speeches by some political groups that speak - you said yesterday, minister - of confrontation between young people and pensioners, because the problems of young people do not stem from commitments with pensioners, they depend more on developing policies so that young people can access training, quality employment, decent pay, housing and, ultimately, to develop their life plan. What I would therefore like to do is to implement policies to focus on young people; perhaps this budget could have been a little more ambitious. We are also concerned that the budget should be assessed on the basis of social measures again as if it were a career to demonstrate who is more progressive. It seems that everything has to rely on social measures and that the better they get, without looking further. There is no doubt that good public services and a system of benefits and aid must be guaranteed for those who need it most to reduce inequality, to co-ordinate society, and more in a context like the one we have, but precisely in this context it is more necessary than ever that resources be allocated to generate conditions of competitiveness, for the productive sectors to become stronger in the territories, to grow and generate quality employment, and, as I have said, this whole part is basically relegated to recovery and resilience funds. However, progress is also visible in the budget, because there are targeted measures, social bonds, aid to the electro-intensive - albeit somewhat more timid - measures with regard to energy consumption, such as subsidies for transport and investment in renewables, and also progress in changing the energy model. In addition, it seems that there are indicators that can improve data that are not desirable: GDP, CPI, EPA, which we will know this week and which will give us a much more realistic picture of 2023. The EPA data today hasn't been very good, really. I'm finishing up. We find ourselves in a context of uncertainty, volatile, where it is necessary to unite efforts and provide stability to the institutions. The main tool at the disposal of governments to give certainty, stability, progress in the transformation of the economy, progress in co-governance, in the transformation of the economy, take advantage of the tools provided by Europe and, ultimately, stand next to the people who need it most desperately to have a budget that adapts to the new economic context. Minister, we have recovered some of the confidence lost and we will vote no to the amendments as a whole, but I will also be honest: we still have a stretch to agree on the budgets. Our vote against the amendments is the whole point of a negotiation so that we can discuss all the discrepancies, to tackle the Basque agenda in greater depth, with a view to transformative investment, which must be realised through European funds in order to move forward in the process of economic conversion leading us to a new social and environmental contract, with clear and concrete actions. We believe that the budgets have room for improvement and in this sense we will, as usual, present the partial amendments, in a constructive spirit, with dialogue, negotiation and the search for comprehensive agreements, which I believe is what citizenship is demanding of us every day. Because politics is that: talking, fighting, negotiating our differences and agreeing. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u25	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u26	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Sagastizabal, as always, I am grateful for your group's intervention, for the tone of all Members when you came to this rostrum and, of course, for the substance of many of the reflections you have commented and which have also been discussed in the previous part, until your group announced that it was not going to present the amendment as a whole. The government's ability to deepen the budget process on those issues that you think are an improvement in relation to public accounts, regardless of whether the budget already includes some issues that were very important to your group, which have been moving over the course of these months. Of course, I believe that we will be able to incorporate some of those issues into some of the items that are particularly important or into some of the laws that are currently being dealt with in this House, which, as you rightly said, have been elements that have enabled us to regain confidence in some of the circumstances that had previously occurred. I hope that it has been nothing more than confusion and that it will never give rise to any kind of mistrust between the Government and its political group in the future, which has managed to deal with so many initiatives than sincerely, beyond the short-term data, I believe that they are yielding results in welfare, in job creation, in driving industry or in protecting citizens against inflation, even though - I insist - we have a long stretch to go through in 2023. Starting with investments, I believe that 18% more than last year's investment in Euskadi has to be positively valued by its group. This means that some projects that you mentioned are very important for the Basque Country have an important budget allocation. I am referring, for example, to the 170 million for the high speed line Vitoria-Bilbao-San Sebastián; to the 91 million greater endowment for ADIF with the aim of improving above all the infrastructure and new sections that the Ministry of Transport had planned; to the 20 million for the vicinity of San Sebastián; to the 75 million for the TENTT corridors; and to some other budget, such as that of 43 million in the ports, specifically in the port of Bilbao, and the 18 million of the port of Passages. And they are investments that also have an expression in the demographic challenge; in particular, the 34 million in water quality for some area that has had special difficulties, the project to recover the marsh environment in Motondo, Orio, or in the Plaiaundi vegas. At least, these are the issues that the ministries have conveyed to me that are important to their political group and that they have included in their budget proposals, believing that they gave satisfaction to some historical claim that you had raised during this period. I also believe that many of the measures that you have mentioned that are included in the draft budgets are applauded by your group, such as the revaluation of pensions. After the important contribution under the Toledo Pact, some today seem to be denying that agreement, which entailed re-evaluation and sustainability in financing. In fact, EUR 20 billion is transferred from the general budget to the social security budget in order to cover this increase in the revaluation of pensions and, therefore, so that it does not become a deficit in social security. Similarly, I also think it is very important that we have been able to contribute and start giving resources to the pension fund with these 3 billion. These are all elements that are reflected in the budget, but which have been discussed over the last few years in the different environments and, in particular, in the involvement that your group had in the Toledo Pact, from the responsibility that any action that is taken in the area of improvement and tranquility for the lives of pensioners must also be accompanied by tranquility in the fiscal consolidation and the maintenance of their public accounts. I think, ladies and gentlemen, with all modesty, that we are making a very remarkable contribution in this Parliament to separating the sources of funding and making a very important advance in all the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, which allows us, at this time, to be able to revalue the pension package: from the high pensions, which we said yesterday that they already have a ceiling on the maximum pension itself, and, on the other hand, to guarantee to the professional pensions which can have a higher level of remuneration - I consider it essential - that in the future the Government and also the Toledo Pact itself is taking care of their updating. It is a volume of pensioners, which has to do with high pensions, which has an asymmetrical distribution in the territory and which, in particular, has a greater degree of representation in its autonomous community for historical reasons of wage developments there. I would like to tell you that, obviously, as you are well aware, we are studying how we operate the establishment of the quota for the new five-year period, which is based on which we had already established earlier, but which I believe must allow in this scenario of volatility to give certainty to the drawing up of public accounts in your autonomous community for the coming years. It seems very important to me, and Mr Esteban has transmitted it to us from the beginning. It is, therefore, that the preparation of the budgets for the next year already has a certain scenario and, moreover - after rolling this new calculation that was made in the previous five-year period - with an expectation of greater secure profit on the part of its autonomous community and also of the State, but reasonable in terms of the operation of that methodology. The fact that we are going to adopt the same for the new five-year period, I believe, will give the Basque Government the capacity to submit its own public accounts and, above all, not subject the financing of the Basque Community to any kind of turbulence or uncertainty which might arise in the future as a result of the economic situation. I would like to tell you that in the coming days - if we can, the next week - we will convene the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, as we committed with your group, to take firm steps in this direction and that before the end of the year we will already have approved the rule and, therefore, that there will be no uncertainty for the future. Also, as we have commented over these days, we are committed to the concertation of the new fiscal figures, so that they also have that reflection in the quota law. The Commission's call for proposals must therefore also address this issue in which I believe there is already advanced work but, as always, there will have to be a few final points in this process. Similarly, Mrs Sagastizabal, with your group we have discussed the final transfer of the railways. This is an element that I believe Mr Esteban also commented on before not presenting the amendment in its entirety, but I would like to confirm from this rostrum. Also the analysis of the situation of the Nervion and Ibaizábal basins, which are the subject of discussions with the Ministry of Ecological Transition; as you know, we have committed the request for technical studies. Of course, the Government's vocation is very clear - I say this to you, Mrs Sagastizabal, and to Mr Esteban, who has been the interlocutor in this matter - so I hope that we can bring the matter to a good place, always from the legal certainty that this type of action must have, which are not simple; and as you well know, the General Administration of the State is due to the reports of the Advocate General and the Council of State itself. With regard to the budget and its numbers, I believe that we have given an impetus to the budget lines of Industry. I know that for your group it is not enough, but they are experiencing an increase of 2.6 compared to 1.1 which increases the total budget; a prudent budget - now I will talk about it -. Also, Your Honor, we are constantly reviewing the PERTE itself - you have commented on it in the rostrum - the PERTE of industrial decarbonisation, of which we will shortly launch the call. We want to do it in a simple, intuitive way, using probably the pattern of what has been the digital PERTE, which has made it possible to reach the small and medium-sized company more quickly. I want to tell you that the government is already working in this direction. And we will also have to promote programmes of conversion, of reindustrialisation, through the contribution to the Fund for the Support of Industrial Productive Investment, FAIIP, which in this budget experiences a very important increase with the new endowment. You have also mentioned our commitment to the electro-intensive industry and I will reiterate it again, which has a very remarkable presence in your autonomous community. We have already incorporated €65 million in additional direct aid to this industry. But, of course, everything that has to do with the lowering of the electricity bill, with the regulatory measures - I am basically referring to the Iberian exception and the measures that have to do with the suspension of the electricity tax, which are very important - we will continue to analyse it in the coming months, and also seeing how the wholesale market evolves so that we can see whether, in fact, the situation will continue beyond the first half of next year. They know that all agencies are watching very carefully how this behaviour is going to occur, but they have no doubt that everything that is necessary for the support of our industry will have to be done through these calls or through the decree law that we will subject to discussion in November and that, of course, we will also agree with your group to see what measures are going to be extended for the future. We need to improve implementation - we have said this throughout this day - in fact, both for the regular budget and for the recovery plan itself. We are doing so so that it can be much more co-ruled with the rest of administrations. We need all that potential, and we are well aware of your view on how the Government has to transfer some autonomy to the territories in order to decide which projects are most emblematic at the discretion of one of the autonomous Governments. I know that there are differences in the approach taken by the Spanish Government and the expectation of its own autonomous community. I assure you of the dialogue, which is permanent, and which has also recently been the result of meetings between the Lehendakari herself and the Economic Vice-President of the Government. We do not commit that we will do everything they transmit to us, but it allows us to continue to improve. Similarly, we encourage the participation of the municipalities in the implementation of the plan itself because, as we always say, we need all the administrative machinery of the whole of the administrations so that we can meet the commitments that we had established so that we can request - we will soon - the third disbursement, where we will have to realize that all the milestones and all the objectives - was explained yesterday to Mrs Gamarra - have been fulfilled, as we agreed with Brussels. Mrs Sagastizabal, I share with you that, at this volatile juncture that we have, we cannot confuse structural expenditure with the urgency of meeting the realities of families or industry itself with the economic income derived from inflation itself. Yesterday we gave a data from a study that the Tax Agency has done - it is at its disposal - where it is envisaged that around 25% of the revenue we are receiving in our revenue is due to inflation and 75% to economic dynamism and income protection policy. It's not a headline or a slogan. We do this on the basis of how each of the taxes behaves and the impact inflation has on each of them, and also because our information systems - I understand that yours too - allow us to project different inflation situations and, therefore, see different scenarios where 75% of income is maintained in any low inflation scenario that may arise in that projection. This is important for the public to be aware of, above all, because we saw this economic dynamism last year, when the collection increased by 15% despite the fact that average inflation stood at 3%. That dynamism, ladies and gentlemen, must enable us to allow those policies - such as, for example, the maintenance of the income of the IRPF, the ERTEs that were fundamental, the cessation of self-employment and some other policies that I think it is very important to highlight - to be able to maintain them in the future; I hope it is not necessary, but, if it were, that we can maintain them in the future. That's why we've worked out two scenarios. I think this is an originality. I understand that, at first, it may be somewhat surprising, but we have developed two scenarios because we wanted to continue the comparative series of structural expenditure and structural income. That is why we have not incorporated as part of the financing of the budget some temporary figures which are currently under discussion within this Parliament, nor have we incorporated, as appropriate, the expenditure which is expected to be incorporated in connection with the completion of the current Decree-Law. I want to say that in November or December we will bring to this Congress the projection of how some parties have to behave that are very important. I give you an example, the minimum living income, you know that at the moment it is increased by 15% compared to what we had before. The budget forecast for structural expenditure raises it by 8.5%, which, as you see, is parallel to how pensions grow; however, we will have to see, when the time comes to pass that decree law, whether we have to incorporate an added amount, temporary, transitional, so that the most vulnerable people can better sort out the consequences of that economic crisis. I say this, as I can say, the suspension of VAT on electricity or gas or some of the other aids that individual and specific sectors were enjoying in order to alleviate the increase - we must see it - in the price of fuels. That is why we have presented these two scenarios in a transparent manner. Some people tell us that spending policy has not been implemented. Right, it is that we will have to do it in November, but we have been very clear where our fiscal margin is. The tax margin that comes from the best development of income and that we have not exhausted that amount in the preparation of the preliminary draft budgets, but we have committed ourselves to that better development of income, if circumstances permit and need it, will not go to a further reduction of the deficit, but will go to a better accompaniment of families. I know you understand exactly what I'm saying. That is why fiscal consolidation commitments with Brussels are similar in the dose-cenarios, because what we say is: if the prospect of this year's closure and, therefore, improves the projection for next year, we will use that amount in this margin that we have to adopt measures to allow us to accompany families and to accompany the industrial fabric. I think it is short-sightedness that the People's Party does not recognize that anticipation made by the Government of Spain, also bearing in mind, Mrs Sagastizabal, that the non-financial spending limit was brought to this House in July. That's why I used to tell the Republican Left of Catalonia that all budgetary procedures will have to be reviewed for the future, because the situation of volatility and uncertainty sometimes moves away from the forecasts of the moment you are in. It has not been the case with this budget because we have been cautious since the first day, and that is what the international agencies tell us. If I undertake that if there is a greater collection, it will be destined to accompany the decree law of measures to combat the consequences of the war of Ukraine and, therefore, not to-as some analysts-make a better forecast of closure of deficit, that is not what the government is going to launch. We are being absolutely transparent with your group and with the citizens as a whole. I am also grateful for the support he has expressed a priori to all the tax figures who are coming to this House. I conclude, Mrs Sagastizabal, by telling her that we share the exceptionality of the moment we are living in and that, of course, rigour and prudence are what will mark the follow-up of public accounts in our country because, despite the always bad wishes of the right, we have been very rigorous in budgetary preparation and very prudent in revenue forecasting. There is the fulfillment of the deficit, better even than expected in previous years, which speaks well of our prudence in putting forward a budget. An increase of 1.1% -1.9 if we remove the European funds - shows that we are really being quite rigorous. We will therefore remain committed to that fiscal consolidation that we have raised in Brussels. In my opinion, these are reasonable accounts which can allow your group to approve, and it is clear that, of course, during the course of the procedure, we will have to incorporate the amendments that we have agreed with you, in addition to fulfilling the commitments that have allowed your group also to give the approval to be processed and, therefore, not to present the amendment as a whole. Thank you very much for your contribution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u27	Thank you very much. We move on to the next group, which is the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u28	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. Now that this debate of the amendments of the whole to the general budgets of the State is coming to an end, allow me, Minister, to rescue for my intervention some of the ideas that you expressed in this debate yesterday, ideas that skewed through the presentation of your accounts to set the Government's position on them too, giving it an ideological approach, highlighting all of them and as a context the impact of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Go, therefore, our initial consideration: to deal with any exceptionality, it is best to put an end to the exceptionality itself. Let us stop the war now, let dialogue be opened up and let the barbarity that accompanies all war cease. But yesterday, as a general discursive framework, he proposed something else and said: Throughout this debate we will see what model of society drives each political formation. The people of Euskal Herria Bildu, of the Basque sovereignist and independenceist left, have no objection - neither today, ever - to show what the social model we advocate. We will therefore take advantage of today's opportunity to do so again. We want a model that breaks with neoliberal capitalism that, in its collapse, threatens to take our rights, our freedoms and the dignity of our lives ahead. We advocate moving towards a model of society that puts life in the centre and not the reproduction of capital, that meets the finite limits of the planet and stops the wild extractivism and the dramatic climatic consequences of that action that only the most foolish - and in this House are counted for tens - dare to drown. We want to live in a society of free and equal women and men, where, at last, patriarchy is just a bad memory. That is the model we want for our country, Euskal Herria, and, as we want for our country by considering it the most worthy, we obviously also want it and we want it for all the pariahs of the earth. We and we, the people of the Basque left, say this clearly, Minister: there is no possible balance between the old who, even resisting, is condemned to die and the new who, even with difficulties, is determined to be born because, in this so-called dark balance, the monsters are born, in Hungary, in Italy or anywhere else. That's why we look at budgets with that perspective. We and we do not see in the accounts the opportunity to obtain more millions for pharaonic works such as, for example, the high-speed train, but we fight millions to improve the poverty pensions of thousands and thousands of people, so that all pensioners do not see their right, legitimately won for decades, to have a decent pension, and that those who receive lower pensions, see them elevated so as not to undermine dignity in their lives. There is still much to be done even with these budgets, because it is worth remembering that 60% of pensioners charge less than EUR 1 000 a month, and with the budgets presented to us, as I said, this is not going to be resolved. We and we don't ask for millions for large infrastructure quesirvan to fatten up friendly companies in exchange for envelopes, VIP stages in football stadiums or seats in boardrooms. We demand taxes, that these companies bring what they must bring, because yesterday the spokesman of the People's Party also wondered if lowering taxes was not left-wing in the past, and the answer to such a question is clear: yes, lowering them to the working class and raising them, and much, to the economic elites of the state. Some will still be taught that of each according to his needs, of each according to his possibilities. They won't see us either in this law or in any other trading with the house. We call for measures to ensure that everyone has the right to one, and this line of deference is very clear in this House, among those who support a housing law that regulates rents, prevents evictions without housing alternatives and ensures decent housing for all, and those who do not. We have been urging them for years to put an end to the power of the elites, the electrics, the banks and the great fortunes, to be more ambitious and not to hear the siren songs of those who, above all, seek to safeguard the shameful benefits of all of them. It is an obvious model struggle between those who want to dignify the working conditions of the workers and those who applaud the employer, the CEO, for blocking wage improvements. There will be anyone who wants to paint it, despite everything, as he wishes, but they are two antagonistic models, because those who defend the social and working majority are on one side and those who defend the economic and business elites do so on the other, defending those elites, those richer and richer at the expense of an increasingly poor society. As I told you, Minister, at that historic crossroads or collision of models, we do not believe that half inks or intermediate solutions fit. Our conviction is not based on the acritical follow-up to an ideology, it is grounded in the reality that we endure. Here are some examples of the same. Iberdrola earns more than €3100 million in just nine months, which we have been in 2022, and hopes to get record profits at the same time that families pay more than ever on their bills and tremble to reach the end of the month. And yet Mr Galán complains that in the Spanish State he has not won enough for the timid measures he has taken and threatens to go to court not to pay a cent. This is similar to the functioning of a mafia that acts like this because it believes it is unpunished. Don't you think so, Minister? How long are you going to allow this? Do you not think that they care very little about what the National Commission on Markets and Competition says about how they are hindering the move to the last resort rate to thousands of people who request it to continue making more money? The media and political right tells us that there is no need to talk about rich and poor, that this is from the past, perhaps to forget that inequality between these rich and poor has grown more in the past year than in the previous thirteen or that one in three people living in poverty does so even with employment or that, as a result of inflation, wages have experienced the greatest fall in forty years while companies are already in the benefits they recorded before the pandemic. More examples. Mr Garamendi, President of the CEOE, dares to laugh at union protests about wages while keeping wage improvements blocked, causing workers to become poorer in a general way. In the meantime, the Government appears to be unaware and maintains the baton of social dialogue while allowing the CEO to veto labour policies. How long, Minister? Another example. Large food distribution chains will be able to continue to increase their profit margins, as they have been doing for years, while paying farmers and farmers below the cost of production price. How long have they been jumping the food chain law? Another example. The Santander Bank earns only 7 billion until September and Mrs Botín also dares to threaten the government for the tax on the bank, while they plan to earn additional billions for the unorthodox increase in mortgages that citizens will pay. What are we going to do about it, Minister? Repsol increases its profits by 11% by obtaining record profits, EUR 3222 million, while it pursues benefiting from the 20 cents of the litre that this government pays so that gasoline is not so expensive for citizens, while they raise the price of gasoline to earn more even if Brent's barrel costs less. That is the difference of models between the model of those placed on the side of all of them - of the employer, of the IBEX, of the banks, of the electric ones - that is, the right, or the model that from the left we should work and advocate to avoid them harmful consequences of their policies and offer certainty, social welfare and dignity to people. You and your government, with this budget, where do you want to go? Frankly, judging by the facts, today - I do not say when this budget debate ends - for all that remains to be done I would say that in a sort of intermediate point, palliative measures for the working class - for the workers - so that they do not suffer so much the consequences of this moment, but non-surgical measures so that the elites do not feel that they are being eroded by benefits. Is it really worth contenting the powerful at the cost or at the risk of defrauding the citizens, the social majority of this country? [[The lady]] Think about it, because we have time this month to make that turn. Taking merely defensive measures to preserve what is possible from the so-called welfare state is not wrong, but they are palliative and not sufficient to give a positive response to the collective anxiety that more and more people are living in the face of general impoverishment in their own lives. And if you think it's appropriate, listen to us. Do not strive, as yesterday, to dispute with the People's Party the role of adalid of the middle classes. Why not, Minister; you said yesterday that the middle class is the one that is making progress in this country, the one that makes sense to public services, but it is the working class, before, today and tomorrow. Even Rishi Sunak - because yesterday they talked a lot about Liz Truss, let's talk about the current British premier - knows that there is the working class, it is more, he knows that he has no friends in it, and he knows that there is no middle class between the ruling class, which are the elites, and the dominated class, which is the working class. See what paradox, according to the income forks they were driving yesterday to determine what could be middle class and what not, turns out that most Basque workers are middle class, we are above those income forks that established it. Are we middle-class or have we earned the right to decent wages and is that why Euskal Herria is the territory of Europe with more strikes in the last five years or with the highest level of union of the whole Spanish State, with the highest awareness of the decline? Doesn't that remind you of something that the classics of 'class itself and class for itself' said more than a jump from a certain working class to a self-desired middle class? Mrs Montero, you know, we have always prioritized above all social and economic measures for the majority, for those who need it most, and this year we will do it again. What we do not yet know is how far we will be able to agree with you so that we can deepen rights and dignity for people's lives. You say this is the most social budget in history. Does it contain any positive issues that we value in that way? Yes, obviously, we do not want to deny, in the same way that these budgets and the previous ones contain elements that we have always valued negatively and which strikes to say because of all and all are known. Despite that, there is no doubt that these budgets - and we also say so - will be reasonably better than those that can present an ultra-right government led by the People's Party and VOX. But these budgets are also far from the budgets that a so-called left-wing government should present. It is not enough to look different to the right, you have to be different to the right, which I suppose they voted for; to us, of course, for that. And it is not enough to look left and say that a left turn is taking place, it is necessary to prove it with facts and firmness before the powerful and laxity and generosity before the weak. You were also telling us yesterday that inequality is a burden on the economy. Are you sure inequality is a burden on the economy? If I have not lived in another economic model than the one that generates inequality and makes inequality a virtue of business capitalization! I believe that inequality is a burden for society, that is reality; but for society, because for the market economy it does not seem so much, for the economy above politics it does not seem so much. How else is it explained, as I have already mentioned, that inequality does not stop growing in the Spanish state, where the rich are becoming richer and the poor are becoming poorer? How else can it be understood that there is a crisis or economic boom in the Spanish State never ceases to be less than 7.5 million people living on the threshold of poverty and, therefore, inequality? Because the system needs poor people and needs the last fight against the penultimate to be effective for them to have cheaper labour. We are aware that to the right multicolor - green, orange or blue - it bothers you that the state has more revenue, unless it is to pay for its bankruptcies, whether they be bankers or of any other kind. But it must also be said that these revenues could be greater if we had not made widespread VAT cuts, as the only solution not to have to structurally attack the profits of large companies, which was something much more radical, much more surgical, much more direct and I think much more just, but as I say, it was not done and that is why these revenues are what they are. If we did the extraordinary taxes - which were announced a long time ago, but which have not yet stood up, like those of energy and banking - we would have more money. He's had to go through a pandemic and a war to get them moving. Two years we've been complaining about this. If there is no more income now, it is for the former lack of determination, for not having anticipated it earlier. It was also said that rents could not be limited or evictions prohibited - we have been told for months - and it is being done. We were told that transport could not be universalized through discounts and free vouchers, and it is being done. We were told that lower pensions, non-contributory pensions could not be increased, and we forced them to do so. You present us with budgets, from our point of view, which are still lacking in the necessary ambition because it costs them or because they are not yet able to make the decisions we put to them from the left. I understand that sometimes these decisions seem radical, which may seem extreme, but that in the end the European Union comes up with the same thing a year or a year and a half later. Why wait? If it was good before or if it is good today, it is at all times. So, we're taking too long. All this time we spend without making decisions - those of extraordinary taxes, for example - is time when citizens are seeing how their living conditions become poorer. All those months and years you spend telling us that no, they are months and years when families and workers pass them canuts. That is because of the search for the impossible balance, the search for that faithful balance between rich and poor, between elites and working class or for not wanting to yield to proposals, even being coherent and of common sense, such as those that we can pose today and those that we have been posing for months. Minister, don't let time go on. Not again. Don't let the time pass to take more and more far-reaching measures like the ones we ask of you, because your nos to these requests are nos to the Republican Left of Catalonia or to Euskal Herria Bildu, are nos that people pay very expensive. We want to be clear. For all the above, these are not and will not be our budgets, but, as we have done on other occasions, we face their debate as a certain and real possibility to achieve social progress and improvements in the lives of the popular classes. That is why we use the budgets, to build on progress and measures that the Government initially does not intend to collect. That is what we have always done, and that is also our objective, since this Government must always be forced to do so because if it does not do so, the steps would be minimal. Allow me to make a point so that, since I have spoken about income, I can also speak about expenditure. Yesterday, a Navarro deputy now from the Joint Group, Mr Adanero, questioned or questioned her how much the Government had paid for a huge banner that Euskal Herria Bildu had hung in a central square in Bilbao in connection with a campaign that we carried out during 12 October. I already answer to Mr.Adanero: the price was zero because the banner did not exist, because it was a photoshop assembly, but that reveals the degree of rigor of the Navarra right, which resembles or tends to zero. We never ask for anything for us or for our interests, we have always thought of improving the living conditions of Basque citizens and - from perspective and from a solidarity position - also of the popular classes and workers of the current Spanish state. Let the spokesmen of the People's Party compare the price of this mortgage that the Government can have with us with which they have to bear the citizens of the Spanish State for the policies servile to the powerful of the regime, to those of before and of now. What brings more inequality in the state, to meet our demands for more social justice and redistribution of wealth or to plead with those who amass wealth at the expense of people's poverty? He was moved by our spokesman, Mertxe Aizpurua, over a month ago. We and we do not owe this Government, we have no responsibility acquired for you and this Government, we owe only to Basque society and our responsibility is only for the working classes and the working class. We and we do not have any parliamentary pact that binds us to you, and that is so much so that the right wing repeats another kind of question. Our vows have never been and will never be captivated by this government, much less by the great economic interests. Each of the five votes that the Basque independenceist sovereignist left has in this Congress are only activated in one direction or another under a premise: whether they are measures and laws in favor of the people or not, and in these budgets we will act equally. Therefore, knowing our position, again made explicit by this rostrum today, it is up to you, the Government, to move our vows and bring them closer together. This is something, I also anticipate, that they will only be able to make arrangements that deepen social and economic proposals to improve the lives of the Basques and the working class as a whole. Don't give up on our vows. Do what I also pointed out yesterday and that this Government is going to give everyone a hand to propose improvements for citizens. Remember that, after all, there is no possible alternative to these budgets without the concurrence of the Catalan, Basque or Galician independenceist left of this House; keep it in mind. If they do, if they seek our support, they will find our sincere will to negotiate, without noise, without stridence, without falling into false provocations, but with firmness and determination in all that we consider to help build a more just, free and egalitarian society for all people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Matute, I believe that your intervention here in the rostrum is probably the clearest expression that we have seen in this debate of how the agreement between political formations that we are so different is a guarantee for democracy and a recognition of the usefulness of politics, in terms of quality of life for all citizens regardless of where they live, what they vote or what they think, in short, what moves their deepest interests. I say this because I believe so, I believe that, indeed, a draft budget reflects the implicit model of society that each government has, more or less clearly, because it is not about drawing up until the last brushstroke of each of these policies, but it does provide a framework - I think quite reasonable - of what the priorities of that government are. I would say that it would be enough to look at a draft budget in order, more or less, to be able to unravel the model that each one has behind it, I know, Mr Matute - because you have expressed it very clearly - that the model of society and the model of country that you are pursuing does not in any way resemble - at least in relation to territorial Lavertebration - what the Socialist Party thinks. This is nothing new. In fact, I think we're all very honest with our constituents. Everyone explains what their idea is. You, of course, are pursuing - as the whole world knows - the independence of the Basque Country, of Euskal Herria, and we are defending a plural and integral Spain, in which everyone can find their place and in which the State of self-government, with which we have been endowed through our Constitution, allows us to take it to its maximum expression, convinced that those levels of closeness of those governments with citizenship allow us to better match the policies that can be put into place and - you will be seeing it throughout our government - with a very decentralized conception of the General Administration of the State. Beyond everyone saying what they think is appropriate, I think that's there. But it is true that whenever we have the opportunity to discuss from the left the models that we each light up, the first thing I say to you, Mr Matute, is that we, the Socialist Party and its coalition partners - but right now speaking in the name of my political formation - are and claim ourselves as a left-wing formation. I say this because it is quite common for some parties in the left to have the temptation to share the authenticity of the meats; who we are or who we are. We consider ourselves and claim to be a leftist political formation; it is true that of a moderate, dialogueal left, which allows us to adopt different alliances depending on the circumstances at each moment, but we are very clear what principles govern our political conduct and therefore the action that emerges from our task of government. I believe that these budgets are a clear example. It will be possible to discuss whether taxes have to be temporary or permanent, whether they go beyond or if there is a limit, which others would exceed or put below; all that can be discussed. What cannot be discussed is that we are pursuing a fiscal policy and, therefore, a social justice - both of them are united - because we are calling for a greater effort from those who believe that they have more economic capacity or that they are having greater profitability, because of the crisis we are experiencing in our country, and the burden on the working class and the middle class is being eased - I shall now speak to you about that, Mr Matute - in order to allow this moment to pass under the best possible conditions. And not only fiscal policy, but measures that favour, above all, the most vulnerable: thermal social bonus, minimum living income, the ceiling on rent prices, in short, a number of social shield issues that protect the most vulnerable. We are also a social democratic party and a government that has different sensitivities within it. We therefore believe that there must also be measures aimed at the social majority of our country, which I would define around 99% of the citizens to whom we owe ourselves. I told him I had some limit, because, of course, I don't think it's confrontational, not even incompatible, talking about middle class or working class or, as this government usually does, middle class and working class. We could get into conceptual discussions, but it's not my goal or we have time in this session. Such discussions would be interesting in other forums. But I do believe that we all hope that those who represent the majority of our country will step forward and step up within the social ladder. I was saying yesterday, and I am keeping it, that what has allowed, to a degree that is not always calibrated enough, that the workers of this country have taken a step forward in terms of quality of life, which means consumption, which means education for their children, which means free health, have been the fundamental public services that have been put in place throughout democracy, a large part of them - I said yesterday - driven by socialist governments, not to say the whole. That means that my Government's aspiration is for citizens to have a better situation every day within the social status, to have a higher level of consumption, to have a greater chance of income and, therefore, to enjoy goods that have so far been stolen from them. I don't know if that's working class or middle class for you. I do not think that, in this debate on the general budgets of the State, it has much more interest, but I did want to tell you that, when we talk about the middle and working class, we are recognizing that in our country there is an elite that has or accumulates a volume of wealth that must be shared with the rest of society so that the great majority can leap forward or can directly, in this case, combat the effects of an inflation that is making the shopping basket, the fuel price or the energy price considerably expensive. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u32	So, on that path, Mr Matute, I am convinced that we will be able to find meeting points. Of the absolute satisfaction of your group I already tell you not, nor surely of mine, but I believe that we can find meeting points. We have done so with other budgets, which we have not agreed on investments, because I am also aware that for your group the social well-being of citizens goes beyond what is the investment itself in an autonomous community. I think we have an important starting point. An 8.5% increase in pensions, I think, is important. A vital minimum income rise of 8.5 % is important. Although I know it's not enough for your group, because that's also how they let us know, but I think it's an unspeakable amount. The increase in the thermal social bonus or other items also directly leads to the protection of the most vulnerable. Then there is another set of policies, such as housing policy, which is also a fundamental policy for young people and so that people do not have to devote half their salary to paying a mortgage. I believe that we have made progress in this regard. You know that this housing law is in the process, that I wish I could see the light in the shortest possible time and we can share many of the elements that want to improve. Economic growth and inequality. I think we share the reflection. I did so to the People's Party, because, on a permanent basis, the public policies that combat inequality, in their broad sense, are antagonistic, as well as the strengthening of public services, and economic growth, which, as the People's Party said yesterday, for them resides in the economic elites. When one puts measures on top of the table and they are fiscal measures permanently silk the following warning: beware, let us not now drive away the investment! No, no. My group's approach is very clear: we want a country to produce wealth so that, in turn, that wealth, in part, that which we have given ourselves in the social contract, can be redistributed. Investors, when they start a business, legitimately want to have an economic return on their business. No one's arguing about that. What we were discussing yesterday is that it seems that for the People's Party or the interests of the powerful or the rest of the citizens are being preserved we will not be able to progress, and that is directly false. There, the fight against inequality is a guarantee for a country's economic growth, and it has been shown not by the social-communist government, as it likes to call it to the right, but by the market and investment, no more or less, before the tax proposal in the United Kingdom, where it has been called into question that, indeed, it could be sustainable in the medium and in the long term and be good for the stimulus of the economy itself. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u33	Excuse me, Minister. [[Pause]] Thank you. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u34	I therefore believe that we share it, Mr Matute, beyond that as we each express it. Inequality is a burden on economic recovery, in addition to being a sort of absolutely unfair circumstance for those societies that want to move forward, that want to move forward, that want to move forward in time from a progressive perspective. I believe that this may have nuances, elements of discrepancy, but it is one of the issues that I believe we can share with your group, regardless of whether we disagree with so many others that you raised here in the rostrum. We, Mr Matute, the Socialist Party, have never been an anti-system party, that is true. We are not a party that questions the system itself. We understand that, despite its shortcomings, despite how perfect it is, this system allows the development of a quality of life for citizens and leads us towards a society that we advocate. That is a big difference with their political formation. We know her. You directly question the very structure of the system. And I am not referring to the political system alone - they have legitimacy to question it if they consider it appropriate - but, fundamentally, to the economic and social system. We do consider that the budget goes to the core of those elements that perpetuate inequality, differences or, in some way, reproduce cultural behaviors with regard to equality, for example, or with regard to the attention to which it is diverse - other political groups, you see it here in the rostrum once and again, directly deny it - or the ability to sustain our planet with green policies that allow future generations not to have to inherit a virtually ruined world. That, of course, is not to question the system, but you will understand that it is transformative, at least for us, because it changes the conditions under which the vast majority of citizens are currently developing. I'm holding your hand, Mr. Matute. I hope that during the period of amendments we will be able to find meeting points. You have made it quite clear to us that not presenting an amendment to the whole today does not mean any more cheese, that you are going to allow the budget to be dealt with, but that your final vote will depend on the capacity for agreement that we can find over the next few weeks. As I told Esquerra Republicana before, I say to you now that I wish you a few hard days in that negotiation, because you are not easy to reach those meeting points, although it is true that the Government is also firm in many of your positions, but I trust that we can reach those agreements and that you can finally vote in favour of the general budget of the State for the year 2023. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u36	Thank you, President. I will start with something that may be surprising, because it has little to do with budgets, or yes, but that really worries me and I think that we should also worry everyone, except some. You see, the consideration of sesoso politics always has on a fragile balance and needs a permanent exercise of prudence and wisdom, which sometimes is difficult to maintain, but which is essential, especially if we want the social pedagogy aspect that always has to hold politics to be aimed at extending tolerance, protecting our diversity and plurality, strengthening the coexistence of those we are different from, but we want to pursue a shared path. Therefore, we must move away from the flames that point to enemies and seek only confrontation and social fracture. Cohabitation policy or confrontation policy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the PP - of the few who are, because you usually come here, let go of it and then leave -, if you share this, which is basic in politics, the conclusion can only be one: Mr García-Gallardo cannot remain a minute longer as vice president of Castile and León. [[Applauds]] Mr García-Gallardono can have no public institutional representation, for the sake of politics and our country. And it's in his hands, only in his hands. Be up to what the moment we live in requires for once. [[Prolonged applause]] Now yes, now yes, good morning, minister. [[Mrs. Rueda Perelló: That, yes, budgets]] In these days of budgetary debate we have been able to see clearly the two ways of understanding politics in this House. On the one hand, it is those who understand that politics is the tool... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u37	Quiet, please. Mrs. Wheel, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u38	... that allows you to respond to the problems, the ones that make arguments, and, on the other hand, there are those who scream, yes. On the one hand, we are the ones who understand that politics is the tool that allows us to respond to the problems that citizens have. There are groups which, when times of difficulty are experienced, open up to dialogue and negotiation in order to find the best solutions to our country's socio-economic problems. The first thing I want to do, therefore, is to thank those groups that make up what has been called the investment block, because their gesture of not submitting amendments in full opens up that space and that time necessary to seek agreement on the budgets that are at the heart of the proposal for economic transformation and social protection that the progressive government has set aside and contains the measures that, together with these groups, we have been adopting here in plenary after plenary. Therefore, we have the hand to look for that agreement that will allow us to finally achieve the budgets that will make those policies that we have already adopted here a reality. On the other hand, there are the advertisers of the apocalypse, negators of everything and contributors of nothing. That's the reality, I'm not insulting. Denialists of everything and contributors of nothing. You see, these budgets allocate EUR 275 billion to unprecedented social investment in our country; EUR 275 billion is dedicated, on the one hand, to strengthening public services and social protection policies that make sense to our welfare state and, on the other, to making more of the solidarity network that we have in order to prevent anyone from being abandoned to their fate. That is why there are the resources, so that our pensions go up with the CPI and our older ones do not lose purchasing power; there are the resources for young people to have help to rent a flat and have more scholarships and higher ones to relieve their families and they can continue and complete their training, the resources that allow workers to have free transport to their workplace, the aids for families without resources to have a minimum living income, measures to keep them out of the light, the attention that the dependents do not die in the limbo of waiting without the help they deserve by law, and the unprecedented investment in primary care and education. As I say, it is an unprecedented social investment in the history of this country. But in addition, the budgets contain the resources that will enable Spain to be modernised and begin to update our productive model: more than 16 billion in R & D+i, in real investment 12 000, the great commitment to ecological and digital transformation, the destination of European funds, aid to self-employed people and SMEs. It could be what's left of tomorrow, but the minister has already done it these two days with much better precision than I have. By the way, I have to thank the minister for the effort of budgetary pedagogy which has led to her almost losing her voice. [[Applauds]] Thank you, Minister, because this saves me from derailing one game after another, games that show that this Government is moving forward with a firm step in its three objectives: protecting Spanish citizens and not abandoning anyone, transforming the country to achieve a greener, more digital, more competitive, strategically autonomous Spain and at the forefront of what is happening today in the world and fairly and equitably distributing public resources and also the costs and burdens of the crisis; three objectives, protecting, transforming and distributing in a fair way, which we should all share. But no, this is where the apocalypse advertisers appear. Therefore, the first horseman of the Apocalypse: they seek to frighten people by constantly repeating that this government is generating an unorbited public debt that will have to be paid by the next generations and the next ones. Okay. Can you tell me who will pay the 500 billion euros, I repeat, 500 billion euros of debt generated by Mr Rajoy's time? Are you going to pay for it by cleavage or are we already paying for it this generation and the next? [[Applauds]] Because if you're going to pay it, I'm quiet, but if we're paying it now and we're going to keep paying it, it's you who have to shut up. Some data to clarify your brilliant management. From 2011 to 2018 public debt in Spain increased by 43.63%, four times more than in the rest of Europe increased debt its most beloved leader, Mr Rajoy. However, from 2018 to 2021, with Pedro Sánchez, the debt in Spain has increased by 17.83 %, 2% more than the European average. ConRajoy, 43%. With Pedro Sánchez, 2%. But this year, moreover, the debt is going to fall, and next year even more. By the way, it would be good if we were ever told why your Government so indebted to the Spaniards. Because the progressive government, with its debt, has long supported ERTs that have saved millions of jobs, helped families, bought vaccines, increased social benefits, rebuilt public services and helped the productive economy. [[Applauds]] However, you cut salaries, cut benefits, cut services, cut investments, cut everything that moved, raised all taxes and owed us. As I said the other day, yours is a minor economic miracle! [[Applauds]] There's nowhere to catch him and they come here bragging about his great contribution to this country. So, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, let us not boast and do not come to the tale that Pedro Sanchezabra the gates of hell of debt, because hell is you. [[Applauds]] Second horseman of the Apocalypse. Look, modern democracies - I tell you because they are often forgotten - have been built on a social contract based on a reasonable division of capital and labour. The benefits, ownership and freedom of the market were respected and, in return, a shared solidarity was required with which to maintain public services and, with them, a welfare state that guaranteed citizens that they were free from the tyranny of necessity. And all this through progressive taxation, both for income from work and for capital. By the way, tomorrow, forty years of the great socialist victory that launched the Government that began to build in Spain the welfare state. [[Applauds]] Because, although the governments of VOX, which are already beginning to make scares and look to the sky, and some others believe that Franco did so, it was the governments of Felipe González who set up the public health system, beyond what was the attention of Social Security, making millions of people who were not entitled to enter the system and have the right to health in this country; those who put compulsory education up to the age of sixteen and, by their hand, public education, in a country with too much illiteracy, inheritance of Francoism, and a public pension system that included millions of people, especially women who had not been able to contribute because they had exploited them. [[applause]] [[continued applause while the speaker was speaking]] Yes, this was done by the governments of Felipe González. Franco did what he did was imprison, banish and shoot those who later made it possible. That was Franco; and you, your heirs. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]] But I return to the social contract, because it was unilaterally broken by the neoliberal tide that began in the 1980s with Thatcher and Reagan, but which had its maximum expression in the previous crisis, when they imposed all of our recipes, applied the law of the strongest and abandoned millions of people who ended up in the midst of marginalization and poverty. But I have bad news for you, ladies and gentlemen of the right: your neoliberal project failed and today it is the social democratic project that is rebuilding the social contract, and, yes, once again through taxation, of progressive taxation. You, even though you now hide a lot, are adamant enemies of taxation. They have said that it is the theft of the state, that the government is supplying itself with them, that money is better in the pocket of the citizens. But this whole verb is nothing but a trap. You use citizens, but what you really think is that money where it is best in your pockets, in yours, in those of those who already have them full. Because for more than 90% of the population, taxes are not a theft, they are the health of their family, the education of their children, the pensions of their elderly, the care of dependents, the safety of their streets, the roads on which they travel, the trains on which they travel. [[applause]] [[Continued applause while the speaker was speaking]] For more than 90% of Spanish and Spanish people, taxes are the guarantee of their freedom and the guarantee of equal opportunity for life. Yes, because taxes for many are their own life, because the vast majority know that they could never pay the 200 000 euros that your child's education costs from the start to the end of a career; they know that they could never pay out of their pocket for the operations or care that a disease can provide for them. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, the vast majority of Spaniards and Spaniards know that their best investment and the best way to secure their future and cope with the adverse moments of their lives is to pay taxes. And you are making an absolutely demagogic speech, tremendously anti-pedagogic of the real and profound meaning of taxation as a tool to fight against inequality and country builder and, moreover, demolishing for the system we have built among all. I know you don't care, but the vast majority don't. Stop lying. The left is not imposing expropriation taxes. The fiscal pressure in Spain, and you know it, is far less than that of the countries in our environment. We are far behind those countries that we then want to look like. Stop saying that you defend the popular classes, when in Andalusia you have forgiven the wealth tax to the great fortunes with one hand and with the other you ask 1 billion others to solve their problems. [[Applauds]] Stop saying that they defend the popular classes, when they are against the big companies, who yesterday told us that they had increased their profits by 25 or 29%, because of the rise of lashipothecas, because of the price of energy, that is to say, because of the crisis, and they bring some of those benefits to those who are having a hard time with the crisis; when they use, as Moreno Bonilla has already announced, the tax on the great fortunes, because it bothers them that whoever else has to pay more; or when he announces a great fall in taxes in the Community of Madrid, which dazzles the world, he reduces 80 euros to the incomes that earn 20 000, but 580 euros to the people who earn 90 000, in a range of progressiveness. [[Applauds]] By the way, it forgets those who earn less than 20 000, to whom the government of Pedro Sánchez does help with the minimum living income, with the electric bonds, with the law against evictions, with unemployment benefits, but that from their governments on the right they receive nothing at all. [[Continued applause while the speaker was speaking]] I mean, as always, you help the poor by lowering taxes on the rich. That's what they do. [[Applauds]] But, yes, when they govern, they raise all taxes, especially VAT, which is the one that most affects the middle and working classes. So, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, don't say that Pedro Sánchez opens the doors to fiscal hell, because the infernofiscal, and above all vital, are you. [[Applauds]] Third horseman of the Apocalypse. Pensions. Pensions are not sustainable, they must be lowered. You're always looking for a problem instead of ever providing a solution. They always go with the discourse of fear, of hopelessness, of the broken future for the elderly. Updating pensions so that they do not lose purchasing power seems an abomination to them and they do not hesitate to confront grandchildren with grandparents, which is the exercise of greater irresponsibility never seen in this country. But, look, Spanish Social Security is the best equity tool we have. It is the system that guarantees a dignified life in old age and the truly equal system for all Spanish and Spanish, wherever they are, live where they live and have worked where they have worked. Everyone benefits, applying the same rules to everyone, and we can proudly say that public pensions are the greatest expression of equality and solidarity of all and of all Spaniards, of whom they were, of whom they are and of whom they will be. [[Applauds]] And this Government is making a huge effort to make them sustainable, to clarify and differentiate the expenses and revenues of those who are not. He has announced that in two or three years we will achieve the neutrality of the system, that is, that expenses and revenues have zero deficits, and these budgets for the first time in three years put in the Social Security hut EUR 3 billion to go and fill it, that hut from which you took the 60 billion that the evil Zapatero had left you. That is, with progressive governments there will be public pensions that will be revalued with the CPI and with you there will be private pension plans, because this will feed the business of one of your own. Ask the pensioners of this country who is hell, whether Pedro Sánchez, who is committed to the sustainability of the public pension system, or Mr Feijóo, who is neither expected nor expected. [[Applauds]] And fourth rider. The economy. The Spanish economy is sinking and inflation is going to devour us. But does it hurt them so much to recognize that GDP is growing and inflation is falling in Spain as in no other country in Europe? Does it bother you so much that Spain is doing well? So deep-rooted have you that the worse for Spain the better for me? We do not ask them to join fervently in the policies that this Government is implementing and that are working. We simply ask you, since you are so disgusted to display yourself in that condition, a little patriotic sensitivity, that you do not go out there and say that Spain is a disaster, that you do not go to Brussels and ask that you do not give us European funds, that if you are going to take a photo, do not make it look bad because they do not give you the reason. I know that it must be very hard to come up to this rostrum, as Mrs Gamarra said yesterday, to make a catastrophic speech about the mismanagement that this government is making of European funds and, only a few hours later, to see how Brussels tells the European PP to stop plotting, that Brussels is disbursing money from the funds to Spain because the objectives are being met. [[Applauds]] They don't give one! And I know, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that you have it wrong, that you have a big problem because you wanted to see in Liz Truss your salvation, your great white, conservative hope: tax cuts, no energy savings, no energy price controls, no Iberian exceptions. Finally, yours, what you have been telling us for so long, brought to practice. So, of course, they quickly launched to tell us that to see if we learned, that this was to have the feet on the ground and know what was going on. Forty-five days later, the British economy sinks and the risk premium goes off, the debt becomes unsustainable, the country makes water everywhere and the fifth conservative leader appears on the stage. Yeah, I know they're turning her down now. It's like Barcenas, that gentleman passing by. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Liz Truss is that lady who walked into 10 Downing Street. Us? Liz Truss who is he? Mr. Feijoo has never said that there is a need for drastic reductions. Now! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u40	Our electoral program does not speak of widespread tax cuts, Ayuso has never said that Madrid does not turn off and that saving energy is a thread, the spokesmen of the PP have never spoken of the timoibérico. Now, you fucking hemerotheque! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I don't think anyone has ever tried to do a stork in such a short time, in such a short space and with such little credibility. Don't worry, Liz Truss, Pablo Married in his day, your current leader, Mr. Feijóo, you yourselves are the anecdote; the category is the failure of your recipe. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the right, your neoliberal catechism has failed because it has been shown that it is unable to sustain economic growth, orderly and sustainable without leaving millions of people out of progress and without generating unbearable inequalities. When inequality reaches obscene levels and becomes unbearable it breaks societies, breaks countries and breaks political systems. You, far from fighting inequality, fed it and continue to feed it. They've failed and now they're naked. They have no choice. He's dropped his model. They have no ideas or proposals and as a knockout boxer repeat the mantra of this government's social-communist hell. And when they have no choice but to say something, their great contribution and their great proposal is to vote against everything that helps people, to withdraw everything - that budgets are withdrawn, the law of abortion - and repeal everything - we will repeal the law of euthanasia, the lawtrans, the law of itself is yes and we will resort to the courts everything else. I mean, his proposals are nothing, his alternative is nothing, his ideas are nothing; nothing that allows us to move forward, nothing that allows us to build. I'm done. In life and also in politics there are two great mobilizing emotions: fear and hope. Fear produces resquemor, and resquemor hate, and hatred seeks guilty and enemies, to end sooner or later confrontation and social fracture. On the contrary, hope encourages collective commitment, extends solidarity, strengthens coexistence and seeks a shared future. I'm sorry to tell you that you, lords of the right, as horsemen of the Revelation with your permanent search for enemies, are sowers of hatred. We prefer to extend and represent hope. Eskerrik asko. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, put to the vote.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In commonPodem-Galicia in common.-Applause of the members of the Government present, put to the vote.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is many hours of debate now. I would like to thank all the political groups that have spoken from this rostrum, especially those who are going to allow the budget to be dealt with, and also the media that have followed us for so many hours to be able to count this debate. I just want to move two issues that are of justice today. The first, my thanks to the team of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service because without them, without them, it would not be possible to carry out such extraordinarily complex accounts in time and in form, so I would like from here to acknowledge their professionalism, their commitment, and to extend it to all the ministerial teams led by the ministers of this Government who, without any rest, have made all the arguments for the budget to be the best possible in the last few days. It is fortunate that Spain can count on its talent, knowledge and commitment. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank the Members of the United Nations We can, with whom three years ago we started a path that I think has been worth it, because we have shown that politics is to restore rights, to regain dignity, to strengthen what is of everyone; that the impossible is the excuse of those who conform with what there is, and that when the left is understood, this country is moving forward. [[Applauds]] But above all, I want to thank my group, Patxi, for their passionate defense of these accounts. Compañeros and compañeras, we are left with the reasons to be very proud of everything we have done, now in this difficult legislature and also during the whole stage of progress that we have enjoyed in Spain in these years of democracy. The PSOE has always been there, in good times and when they were not so good, driving the transformations that are necessary, fighting for equal opportunities, fighting injustice. When we are in the government, and also when it is up to us to be in the opposition. Our political project has never set any other goal than to improve people's lives. Tomorrow we fulfilled, as Patxi said, forty years of the historic victory of the Socialist Party at the hand of Felipe González. [[Applauds]] A victory that changed the fate of this country, which helped to get it out of the corner where the dictatorship had framed and opened it to Europe, modernized its economy and laid the foundations of the welfare state. I have not come up with a better way than this moment, with the next vote that we are going to have, to claim the future, because today, as forty years ago, we need more Europe, we need to be more united than ever in order to protect ourselves, in this case, from the threat of Russia. Today, of course, we have challenges in the economy that we are willing to lead because that depends on the prosperity of the citizens, because this fast-paced world does not wait for those who are not clear on the way. We have a project, we have a leader, we have a team and, therefore, the responsibility to lead this country to achieve greater welfare quotas. Today, as four decades ago, we are betting on better public services, strengthened public health and education, with more resources for dependency, for social services, for what equals us, for what, giving equal the income that one has, allows us greater opportunities. Of course, it's not the same thing that governs, and I think we've shown it in these years of legislature. We have doubled the expenditure on health compared to the last budget of the PP, with 60% more investment in education, with 150% more dependence policies, with 23% more than Mr Rajoy's last budget for investment in R & D+i, or, ladies and gentlemen, with 24% more - which never seems to be enough - to combat the scourge of gender-based violence. We've done it with a pandemic, with a volcano and now with a war. We have applied effective policies at all times to protect the social majority, the middle class and the working class, with rigour in public accounts and in our policies, and with an opposition to the counter in everything, that in the worst moments of this country has never set its shoulder because its only objective is to regain a power that they believe belongs to them; a failed opposition, with failed economic, political and social prescriptions, that no one applies anymore, not even those who are guardians of orthodoxy. Fortunately for this country, in this Congress there is a political majority that defends the social majority; a majority able to break down positive agreements that transcend the legitimate interests of each formation because in the background, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that democracy has been built since dialogue. The question then would be: what do those who reject thedialogue stand for? We are clear that we will continue to defend the general interest, the progress and well-being of the citizenry, the competitiveness of our businesses, the future of our young people, and the safety of our pensioners, the social conquerors. In short, this country needs to know that we will continue to work against wind and tide so that all, and not just a few, have more and better opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the floor.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galiciaen Communale.-Applause from the members of the Government, on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u43	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 17/2022 of 20 September, by which urgent measures are taken in the field of energy, in the application of the remuneration regime to cogeneration plants and the rate of value added tax applicable to intra-Community deliveries, imports and acquisitions of certain fuels is temporarily reduced. To present the royal decree law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u45	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon now. I am writing to you to request the validation of the Royal Decree Law 17/2022, which includes a new package of measures to further strengthen support for industrial domestic consumers in the face of the impact of the energy crisis we are experiencing. It is not the first measure, nor is it the last. In fact, this is the ninth decree law since the Government adopted the first consumer protection measures in June 2021, in a context of unstoppable increases in energy prices, and next week I will present to you, requesting its validation, Decree Law 18/2022. Today, as always, the answer is more Europe, more united, more solidarity, more justice and further progress and modernization of our economy and our society, as has been the case for forty years in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Today it is the energy that dictates the way in which we understand the present and the future. Therefore, it is in energy that we must find the answers that reconcile a capacity to address in a structural and systematic way the origin of the crisis, but also the capacity to develop empathy, solidarity and justice in dealing with this crisis. From the outset, three have been the main objectives of government action in a context like this. First, to foster this structural response, accelerating the energy transition to tackle the problem at source: the high vulnerability and volatility of fossil fuel prices, because when they also come at such a high percentage, as has happened in Europe, of a single supplier, Russia, they generate tension and a difficult problem to solve in the short term. But we must learn a lesson from what has happened: faster in transition, more transformation of our system and less dependence on what hurts us. The second objective is to protect domestic and industrial consumers from a situation with few precedents on our continent, and the third is to ensure an equitable sharing of the costs that this crisis represents, both through budgets and through regulation. The invasion of Ukraine is an unprecedented pressure in Europe; a pressure that creates tensions in the construction of the common project, both in terms of peace, security and defence of European values and in economic and energy terms, with profound social and industrial implications in the Member States. That is why the answer requires seeking flexibility and solidarity with those who have the greatest difficulties, but at the same time ensuring the path of decarbonisation of our energy system, the strengthening of European strategic autonomy and adequate coverage for families and industry, because no one wants to find impoverished families, no one wants to find a Europe that is devastated from the point of view of industry and the productive system. These are also the axes that have inspired all the action of the European Union since March 2022. It is true that Spain perceived before the overwhelming majority of European citizens the impact of the crisis, and it was also a pioneer in many of the measures proposed today at European level, such as the reduction of the extraordinary benefits of energy companies, as a result of the rise in the price of gas, or the need to decouple the price of electricity from the price of gas, mitigating the impact of the latter's cost on our invoices. An Iberian solution that has allowed Spain to save more than EUR 29 billion in just over three months of implementation, the extension of which has already been requested by a number of Member States throughout Europe and whose specific situation at the border is being studied by the Commission in order to address, where appropriate, the extension of the mechanism. It is true that Spain is not affected in terms of security of supply, as some of our neighbours do. However, we are affected by the increase in prices that we live through the difficulties that our neighbours face, because we do not live in bubbles. We know that our neighbours have problems accessing energy raw materials and that some of our closest neighbours have problems as a result of drought or the state of nuclear generation. All this affects and presses on our own energy system. In fact, it makes us the battery of our neighbors and directly affects us in the price of energy. So let me introduce the main measures of this decree law, a decree that falls within the context of the More Energy Security Plan, on which I have asked to appear next week in the Ecological Transition Commission. It is a plan that presents a structural and joint vision of the situation that we are experiencing, which incorporates the main measures that affect many areas of public and private action, complementing the measures that we have been implementing since June 2021, reinforced in August 2022. We wanted to share the diagnosis and strengthen the structural response, accelerating the deployment of renewable energies, energy efficiency and electrification. It is a successful strategy, which reduces the average energy price, which facilitates the participation and co-responsibility of very different actors; a strategy that will have to be completed, updated and increased in its ambition on the occasion of the revision of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, which we will have to adopt in the year 2023. However, this is not enough, it is obvious that it is in the structural response that we need to accelerate the whole transformative energy agenda. But we must also remain alert to the impacts on society and the productive fabric and take measures to facilitate the direct protection of domestic and industrial consumers and pay more attention to those who need it most. These measures have been shown to be effective, especially in low- and middle-income deciles, and have generally resulted in savings for all consumers of 33% of their invoices compared to those they had received in the absence of the measures, as indicated by the main reports which have been published these days. As they indicate, in recent weeks we have been able to see that the impact of prices on society and on the productive fabric in the absence of these measures would have been devastating. For example, a vulnerable consumer, with an invoice of around 39 euros in the first half of 2021, would have had to pay an invoice of 100 euros a month if he had not implemented the measures that the government has been approving and that today allow him to receive an invoice of around 38 euros. That is why we have to work on the various levers that directly affect the cost of energy or the prices that consumers pay. This Decree Law maintains the commitment of the Government and takes exceptional temporary measures to alleviate the effects of the crisis, accompanied by some structural measures that are here to stay. In the area of taxation, VAT is reduced from 21 % to 5 % on the gas bill, which is the minimum rate authorised by Community legislation; a reduction in VAT which will also apply to all producers of pellets, briquettes and wood and which allows us to provide an estimated saving to all very large families. The situation of tension in energy market prices has had an impact on households, but it has also had an impact on our country's industry. Those cogeneration industrial plants suffered from the rise in the price of gas, in some cases even with the denunciation of contracts they had signed by their traders, who felt unable to supply the same gas at the agreed price. A dramatic, enormously complicated situation explains why there has been such a significant fall in the operation of cogeneration plants and how a very large part of this energy has been transferred to the electricity system, increasing the demand for electricity in these industrial plants or adjusting, on the basis of production, the demand that cannot be paid. Let us think that last August the average price of gas in the Iberian market was 165.85 euros megawatt/hour, reaching a historical maximum of 240 euros megawatt/hour on 29 August and, however, with an important difference in favour of the Iberian market compared to the reference used mainly in Europe that marks the Dutch market, the TTF index. This price increase during the summer months has had a terrible impact on our industry. During the month of August more than half of our country's installed cogeneration power had to stop. This stop mainly affects the heat-intensive industry, increasing its production costs and reducing its competitiveness, and in global terms represents a serious impairment to the country's energy efficiency, as cogeneration is able to produce heat and electricity simultaneously and therefore be more efficient than other processes. So when in the framework of the sectoral meetings, which the Ministry carried out for the elaboration of the Plan More Energy Security, we started a conversation that allowed us to analyse the different alternatives proposed by the industry and, in particular, by those sectors that make use of the cogeneration, we saw how the proposals that had sent us before the summer were clearly insufficient and that it was essential to facilitate that the cogeneration facilities could benefit directly from the so-called Iberian mechanism and therefore receive the same amount as the combined cycles: to receive a payment for the cost of gas equivalent to the cost of the quotation in the Iberian gas market. An amount which, as the sector itself knew, is referred to the Iberian gas market and which allowed them to operate in an agile manner, facing the volatility that this same market has been suffering for months. Therefore, we agreed to exceptionally enable the voluntary exit from the specific pay scheme with which the cogenerations were operating. The rise in gas costs could not be compensated agilely through the revision of the RECORE tariffs and this was the most effective solution. So this decree law states that the cogeneration plants can temporarily renounce their regulated remuneration and operate in the electricity market, the same way that combined cycle plants do according to the rules of the Iberian mechanism, this exceptional authorization that the European Commission has allowed for Spain and Portugal. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that at least half of the cogeneration plant will return to normal operation. In fact, since 1 October 2022, 56% of the cogeneration installed has temporarily renounced the remuneration scheme, taking this option into account. In addition to protecting the industry from high gas prices, maintaining jobs and preserving competitiveness, we save a significant volume of gas in the national balance sheet as a whole. The savings estimate is equivalent to 10% of what these industries now demand from the electricity system, which translates into total gas demand, accounts for just over 1.2% of all that is consumed in Spain. In complex times such as this it is vital to support the cogeneration present in sectors as distributed throughout our territory as pasta and paper, ceramics and agro-industry, a sector that represents about 600 installations, which accounts for 20% of gas consumption and about 20% of gross domestic product. In line with the More Energy Security Plan, we have also adopted an important measure to offer flexibility and reduce demand at peaks where it is highest. One of these measures is what we have called an active demand response service, which will increase flexibility for the industry and the security of the electrical system through a tool very similar to what was historically known as an interruptibility mechanism. The aim is to compensate for the availability of industrial plants which, within 15 minutes, must or may be able to reduce electricity consumption for a maximum of three hours and, in return, be remunerated. In this way - as I said - we give more flexibility to the system and reduce demand and peak moments, those that will generate a disproportionately higher increase in the price of electricity. It is the operator of the electrical system, Spanish Electric Network, which is responsible for the application of this instrument, managing a new service through auctions in which all industrial demand units, traders and direct consumers, larger than a megawatt, can participate. The first auction was held on October 21st and ended with 500 megawatts awarded for a remuneration similar to 69.97 euros megawatt/hour. This service will drive new models of energy business, allowing the aggregation of demand and the management of multiple demands through a single operator and, therefore, giving greater flexibility to the system and greater capacity to react at times of greatest demand. The combination of the two above measures, the voluntary renunciation of cogeneration under its specific remuneration regime and the creation of this service make it possible to equip the industry with tools that reduce its operating costs and the energy they pay at this time. This Decree-Law addresses other, also important, issues relating to the deployment of renewable energy, which needs to be accelerated. All megawatts of wind and photovoltaic energy have an impact on greater gas savings, lower prices on consumers' bills and greater participation of the territory and very different actors in the drive for energy transition. Therefore, this decree law includes measures to facilitate the installation of new renewable power, setting new criteria for the capacity of electricity transmission networks, maximizing the use of our infrastructures and allowing for speeding up administrative procedures, shortening response times or making unnecessary, when there are no substantial changes since the first design, that mandatory reports are again requested and submitted. It is not only energy issues that appear in this standard, but also a measure to continue to support those affected by the La Palma volcano. This decree gives continuity to something incorporated in the Royal Decree Law 20/2021 of 5 October, which established the suspension of interest and principal payment obligations for loans and loans with and without mortgage guarantee, regardless of whether their holders were current or not, thus granting to those affected by the effects of seismic movements and volcanic eruption a particularly important margin of flexibility at this time. By agreement of the Council of Ministers of 22 February 2022, the duration of the suspension was extended by six additional months, but despite clear progress in the return to normality of the island, the result of measures taken by the various competent administrations and cooperation with private operators and credit institutions, the island continues to face new exceptional situations arising from the eruption which create an urgent need for liquidity. For this reason, the need to act swiftly to dampen the economic situation of the families still affected is important, so this decree law which I submit today for validation opens again the deadline until 24 October for the application of measures to suspend interest and principal payment obligations for loans and loans up to six months in the case of new applications or up to three months in the case of an extension. Furthermore, this rule clarifies the possible involvement of autonomous meteorological services in the updating and publication of predictions in order to be able to accommodate meteorological risk levels on forest fires with geo-referenced information for early decision-making, and also harmonises the deadlines so that the various autonomous communities maintain their commitment to take appropriate measures to ensure that forest fire prevention, surveillance and extinction plans and services are adapted to the new requirements of our time before the beginning of 2023. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u47	This Decree-Law also includes fundamental measures in areas other than those where the origin of this energy emergency is concerned; it includes fundamental measures in the field of crisis, responding to domestic and industrial consumers; it contains other measures to protect these consumers further; it facilitates the redistributive character of all measures proposed by the Government, since our priority - as I said earlier - is to share efforts in this context and ensure adequate protection for those most in need. I trust that the vast majority of this House will agree with this principle, with those objectives: more Europe, more unity, more solidarity, protection of the productive fabric, protection of our families and accelerated transformation of our energy system to reduce our vulnerability. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this Royal Decree Law 17/2022. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr Gimeno was the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to send a greeting to the students and teachers of the Calamocha Institute, my municipality, who are visiting us today. They are the future of our land, deserve opportunities to carry out their vital project there, and, among other things, to achieve that, we are here, so that that right can be exercised and each one's vital project realized wherever one wants to live. Thank you for your visit. Minister, why does the Government not take advantage of the opportunity of decrees like this and of the international context that demands speeding up the energy transition to boost energy communities and collective self-consumption? To this end, the Community directives on this model of distributed generation and citizen participation must, as you know, be fully transposed. I refer, in particular, to Directive 2019/944 on common rules for the internal market in electricity, which regulates citizens' energy communities, and to Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, which regulates renewable energy communities. Although a partial transposition has been carried out, it is quite clear that the generation distributed as a model for the deployment of renewable energies is relegated to the regulations being promoted by the Government of Spain, while, on the contrary, there remains the fast track for wind or renewable macro-stations and for very high voltage lines. We have been repeatedly demanding that the distributed generation be boosted, and we know that so do other groups, that is, this measure would have the majority support of the House. The European Commission has drawn attention to the Government of Spain for having carried out a partial transposition of these measures, i.e. for failing to fulfil the task we are demanding. These are directives that promote the democratization of energy, empower local communities, municipalities, citizens in the production of renewable energy and, among other things, also enable demand management. Demand management is not yet developed in the Spanish electricity system. Indeed, with regard to the rest of the European Union's member countries, they are lagging behind. Spain is said to be at a disadvantage due to the lack of legislation in this regard. In view of the amount of energy regulations that are being produced each day, doubts arise as to the reason for this delay in dealing also with this demand management. Is the deployment of renewables being encouraged and financed to remain exclusively in the hands of investment funds and large energy companies? The European Union believes that a genuine energy transition should include democratisation of energy. And something similar happens about the assessment of the environmental impact of power plants and some power lines, such as the very high voltage private line that crosses Aragon. We insist on its private status because the electricity transmission lines in Spain are public. In addition, it is a line that is treated in a fragmented way as evacuation lines, but, in fact, it is a very high voltage transport line, 400 kilovolts. In other words, with the pretext of evacuation, its true dimension as a transport line is camouflaged. It goes from the northeast of the province of Huesca to the south of Aragon, in Teruel, passing through Black Eyes in Teruel to La Eliana, in the province of Valencia. It is 600 kilometers from Vitoria to the Valencian Community to set up renewable plants in many Aragonese regions, an authentic electric highway that crosses from the northwest to the south of Aragon, precisely on the route of the railway transport corridor of which it takes so long to plan and build. By the way, lines that are completely legal should be built underground by intubation. In Germany it is, and in Spain Royal Decree 223/2008 also allows it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u50	Mr. Guitar, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u51	Many organizations, many people think, think that it would be preferable to develop a distributed generation and optimize the current networks through appropriate technology, rather than fill all the landscapes and all our peoples with these infrastructures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Third Vice President. I will support the validation of the measures aimed at encamping the great energy storm over Europe, exacerbated by the collateral effects of the war in Ukraine. You have explained the impact of the rise in natural gas prices and its impact on the wholesale price of electricity, but you have not assumed any responsibility in this regard. So far, Mrs Ribera, we haven't arrived on occasion. Once again, I would like to point out that this situation of energy insecurity is taking the Spaniards with the change of pace as a product of several factors in which the government has been decisive for evil. One of them is the closure of coal mining that Pedro Sánchez's first government, with you as a minister, perpetuated at the end of 2018 and that, in addition to the closure of wells and farms, boosted power generation power plants. I take the opportunity to say four years and peaks later have not yet reached the affected Asturian regions, the Nalón and Tineo basin, the compensatory measures for the closure of the Lada and Soto de la Barca power stations. I also expect you to be aware of the discontent with the desperate parsimony in the implementation of the content of the agreement for the just transition and sustainable development of the mining regions. In any case, the exclusion of the only indigenous fossil fuel we have in Spain from the energy mix has meant the loss of our energy sovereignty, and, unlike other European countries, which are burning it as never before to ensure supply and reduce it, the lack of coal has boosted the bill that your Government, Vice-President, has committed itself to lowering in its coalition programme. Today the Spaniards are paying historical prizes for the receipt of light, and the electro-intensive industry, which is fundamental to Asturias's employment and GDP, is suffering it, with a reduction in its production and cuts in jobs. Hence the importance of recoveringinterruptibility auctions, as this regulation finally sets out, although it does not take advantage of the surplus in 2021 for industry, which resulted in a large amount of revenue from emission allowances auctions. Ladies and gentlemen, a second factor I would like to mention is the colossal waste of hibernation, that is, the ten-year closure of the El Musel regasifier in Gijón. You, Mrs Ribera, were there at the beginning of July giving the flag of departure for the start-up of the opening of the facilities, which will be operational by the end of the year. But here there is a cat locked up because they are going to dedicate only to storage, in what will be - I emphasize - a speculative trick to increase gas. Also in relation to gas, as a third factor that negatively affects Spain and that, like the previous ones, it is the responsibility of the Government, the Copernican and unexplained turn of Pedro Sánchez in the foreign policy on the Sahara has cost us trade relations with Algeria, our main supplier of gas, of what has been taken advantage of other European countries, as is the case with Italy, which has rushed to sign a stable and long-term supply agreement. One last point, demolition for a government that has a Ministry of Consumer Affairs. Taking advantage of the advantages of the new regulated market and changing the gas tariff is today an impossible mission for thousands and thousands of consumer families, which cannot overcome the telephone barrier of the marketers. In any case, as I said before, the urgent measures adopted by the Council of Ministers contain proposals made by the opposition too long ago, as is the case with the reduction of VAT, and therefore, although late, it is fine. I shall support the validation with my vote. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u55	Thank you, President. My group is going to vote in favour of Decree 17/2022, as it cannot be otherwise, because the measures it contains are positive: measures to speed up the administrative processing of renewable generation and tax measures, because the VAT reduction for natural gas, biomass and wood pellets and lighters is approved from 21 % to 5 % between 1 October and 31 December. A rapid response service on interruptibility is set up to reduce electricity consumption with a response of 15 minutes or less, with a maximum duration of three consecutive hours per day - a proposal which the Basque Government also sent to the contingency plan and which has been included as a demand management measure - and controlled and remunerated demand cuts. I take this opportunity to say that perhaps a gas interruptibility system could also be considered in your case. It is exceptionally foreseen that, if the revenue surplus of the electricity system is generated at the end of the 2021 financial year, the whole of the electricity system will be applied to cover temporary misadjustments and transitional deviations between revenue and costs for the 2022 financial year. My group has always advocated the re-establishment of the conditions of cogeneration, the need for proper regulation of the remuneration of the operation so that cogeneration plants have a retributive framework for those regulated by the Electricity Law in order to guarantee and cover fuel costs through the remuneration to the operation. For what? To be able to compete in equivalent terms with other technologies. The fact that, given that the cogeneration was stopped by prices for quite a long time, in view of this situation and in order to solve the problem, this decree allows the application of the mechanism of adjustment of the gas level prior to voluntary renunciation of the regulated remuneration for certain cogenerations, in the same way as for conventional gas and coal plants. It is true that at the state level the associations valued the development of the measure for cogeneration plants very positively, considering that this measure would speedily and flexibly boost greater energy and activity savings and allow the recovery of the production of the cogeneration plants that had entered, as a hex, a process of stopping and the associated industrial fabric in a rather complex energy context, although they already warned that they did not know its effectiveness and impact. The fact is that today with the implementation of this measure the situation of cogeneration is very different. Only part of the facilities stopped have recovered some normality in the operation, and they do so cautiously and with a continuous daily control of prices and costs. But it is also that those who have entered are announcing exits from the mechanism, also as a result of the fall in the price of gas, in which the remuneration has remained at zero because the mechanism has not operated because the price of gas is true that it has been below forty euros, and, by adhering to the mechanism, they have renounced that remuneration. The fact that they do not know the possible remuneration they will receive for the year 2022 makes them not know what decision to make, whether to adhere or not to adhere to the mechanism of adjustment of the gas cap enabled through this decree. This could be noted slightly in the decline in cogeneration production in the last days of October, although it may also be due to the drop in the thermal gap in those days due to high wind production and low demand. It is also true that it has only been a month since the adoption of this royal decree law and it is very soon to draw definitive conclusions about its effectiveness in relation to the recovery of the activity of cogeneration with gas and therefore we will also support the decree, although it seems that this is not the ideal solution, since it leaves out other cogenerations, such as those that are located on the islands or those of the olive grove and the purin, which cannot benefit from the Iberian exception. [[The Lord]] We therefore call for a definitive review of the remuneration for the operation, which is insufficient or inadequate as a result of the application of the Henry Hub price index, or the desirability of adjusting the reference value of the free allocation of CO2 to its real values, because the fact is that in view of the so much volatility in prices there is no legal certainty, this has an impact on production and economic activity and an effective solution is necessary for them, as I have said, in addition to approving the outstanding salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u56	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u57	Thank you, President. Vice-President, welcome to Congress, to this plenary. Five months has been the cogeneration sector very concerned, without being able to enter the gas adjustment mechanism. It was approved in June and has been so for these five months, suffering the negative consequences of the decisions, or rather, on this occasion of the lack of decisions of this ministry. We do not know why the cogeneration sector was not initially included in that temporary gas adjustment mechanism, we do not know whether it was because they were forgotten or because they did not find a way to do so or simply because they did not see it necessary. But it has had consequences, and there are several. First of all, during the summer many cogeneration plants have had to paralyse their work, which entails total uncertainty for workers, potential investors and the entire cogeneration industry, which does not know how to focus on the following months, which will be even harder. And there are other implications and consequences, and it is that, while cogeneration did not produce, it was replaced by other technical solutions, such as combined cycles or gas boilers, which is obviously not the right thing to do. We must therefore say that this royal decree, which we will vote in favour, means recognizing that it has not been done well with the sector. And I believe that it should have been said openly, that they have done it wrong and are trying to solve it again, and that, although late, they put it on the table. As I say, we welcome this royal decree, because we believe it is a very good option for the sector to recover its normal activity. However, it is late, and for the cogeneration sector too late. In fact, the auction announced in December 2021 has not been held until last Tuesday, 25, ten months later. Therefore, it is a very important area in the energy sector, but it always has to beg that the ministry responds on time. With regard to the assessment of the importance of the cogeneration sector, in our country there are more than six hundred cogeneration plants associated with different companies in different sectors, such as food, paper, ceramics, chemicals or textiles, and this type of energy generation supports 20% of Spain's industrial gross domestic product, as well as 11% of electricity generation and 20% of total degas consumption, which saves the equivalent of gas consumption of two and a half months per year for all households and SMEs in Spain. I therefore believe that the importance of the sector is on the table and we must all be aware of that. However, between the approval of the gas adjustment mechanism and this royal decree, the cogeneration associated with the industry has fallen by 70 %, from 11 % of the country's electricity to 4 %. According to ACOGEN, two decades of production came to a halt this summer after the approval of the gas adjustment mechanism, which has meant a huge blow for the cogeneration companies, which have also had to face an unprecedented situation in Europe. Our neighbor, Portugal, approached him within the remuneration of cogeneration simultaneously when he approved the compensation mechanism, but we, and even other countries, have not. Why has Spanish cogeneration had to stand still and in uncertainty throughout the summer? Why is this discrimination allowed to cogeneration, as I say, unprecedented throughout Europe, in favour of combined cycles that consume 30% more gas? As I say to you, the negative consequences are still being paid by the sector, and it is that, despite this expected measure, one third of the cogeneration plants are still unable to reactivate themselves, while they are trying to recompose their defunct chain after the disruption that brought about this summer's paralysis. Since this gap between the gas adjustment mechanism and the actual decree law that we are discussing has been the responsibility of the Government, we believe that it is fair for the Government to try to compensate the cogeneration sector and help it to reactivate it. On the other hand, as he did with the PERTE of renewable energies, renewable hydrogen and storage, he should immediately approve something we asked for for for a long time and that the sector sees with good eyes, a PERTE so that the cogeneration can renew its equipment and restart with an even more efficient operation, being able to focus the future for its ecological transition towards green hydrogen. They would have to approve it already, and we, from Citizens, advance you that we will present an amendment to the articulated in these budgets in order to try to make the cogeneration have a PERTE own and can make that transition in a more comfortable way. In this royal decree we also find an impetus to the processing and commissioning of the evacuation of the renewable generation, that is, to solve the problems of the high bureaucracy that exists for the installation of renewables. We agree. In fact, a few months ago we presented a non-legislative proposal in this regard, and, among the documents that we passed at the meetings of the contingency plan, we also conveyed our concern about the bureaucracy associated with the deployment of renewables, because the deadlines do not allow for the timely arrival of investments, and we believe that it would be very important. However, eliminating or reducing bureaucracy does not mean that there is more laxness in the conditions, but that there is less bureaucracy. And I say this because, in fact, what we want is for all the dossiers to be secured, both those that are pending and those that can arrive, and there are sufficient staff to be able to deal with that process until the corresponding permits for such implementation are obtained. In short, we present a non-law proposal and also measures in the general budgets of the State that will improve those contained in this royal decree. Finally, I would like to say to you that we also believe that the fall in VAT on natural gas and biomass fuel is a good measure. Among other things, it is done to better face winter, although it ends on December 31st.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u58	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u59	Vice President, don't you think that in winter it lasts any longer than until December 31st? They're short again and it gives me the feeling that they'll have to rectify again. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u60	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, there are, of course, some positive measures with which we agree in this decree, but we also have important discrepancies both for what there is and for what there is not, both for some issues that are incorporated and for others that do not appear, as is usual. In relation to the former, unlike some previous assessment, it seems to us very negative this new process of flexibility to speed up the implementation of wind turbines. We are in a country, such as Galicia, which is suffering a real energy expoliation and which is now manifested in the form of wind expoliation, with more than 200 wind megapark projects which are not designed for the needs of our country and which have a very important impact both from the environmental point of view and from the social point of view and even to economic activity both on land and at sea, since we also have the threat of sea wind. Ladies and gentlemen, you are free to give companies this administrative concession procedure, rather than a public tender procedure based on a plan previously defined by the Ministry, is causing genuine abuses in many sectors, which, fortunately, in many cases are paralysed by judicial decisions. They already did so in Decree 6/2022, eliminating the declaration of environmental impact, and even the public exhibition was recovered in a subsequent decree, although they did not modify a more flexible treatment in favour of companies. By the way, we are waiting for that decree to be processed as a bill to be able to defend our amendments, which we have already tabled in this regard. But there are also things that are not there. For example, we are surprised that VAT is lowered to gas but it is not lowered to butane candy. I would like to remind you that the butane cane is the fuel that precisely the most people use, those sectors with the greatest difficulties. It is true that there is a price limitation of 19.55 euros, but it is no less true that if the VAT of the butane is lowered - it is lowered to natural gas, wood and pellets, but not to the candy -, we would place that price at 17 euros. It may look like a little 2.55 euros, but believe me that for many families it would be fundamental. And, as always, they do not dare and continue to delay taking important measures, such as setting a ceiling at the price of electricity and fuels on the finalist market to final consumers, but not to compensate for it later, but at the expense of the profits of large companies, and they also continue to resist taking structural measures,measures of silence from the reform of the electricity system to others that would surely also have to be taken...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u62	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u63	...how to turn electrics into companies under public control. In any case, I insist, as there are measures in which we agree and others in which we do not agree, the BNG is going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u64	Thank you. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u65	Thank you very much. First of all, Vice-President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your willingness with the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups to keep us informed of everything that refers to the energy crisis and to be ready to receive our suggestions. During these months, perhaps we can criticize that the measures are not taken quickly enough, that they are not taken as we would like, but - and this royal decree is an example - no one can criticize that the Government is not taking measures. They will taste more, we will like less, but these measures are approved and validated in this Congress and, therefore, we are all responsible; those who criticize and seem to them little but do not vote, are also responsible. In any case, we are going to vote in favour of the approach to cogeneration, the speeding up of procedures with regard to renewables, which seems to us to be a good thing, and the reduction of VAT rates on gas, and also on wood, pellets, etc., which we had raised at some point. Anyway, I have an assignment, Vice-President, that I am sure my colleague Joan Capdevila will share, on his own behalf and on behalf of his colleague Jordi Salvador, and it is that in order to cope with this crisis it is necessary to take short-term measures, urgent measures, but also structural measures. [[Applauds]] Since 2019, the adoption of the closed network regulation is pending, a regulation whose public exposure ended more than a year ago and which for the industry of certain areas and the Tarragona demarcation is fundamental. We therefore ask you to speed up this approval, because some of these industries are transmitting to us: hey, it is very good that measures are taken to deal with the most immediate situation, but this regulation would greatly facilitate our competitiveness in a structural way. Having said that, I just want to emphasise that we are going to vote in favour of validation, but we are no longer going to vote in favour of processing. We understand that this royal decree is what it is and expires when it expires. But, look, I already knew that these are times of crisis and it has to be legislated by royal decree law, but when the royal decree law comes to this House, it is validated and approved its processing, what has to be done is to process it. In this royal decree law, what do we do? In the third additional provision we are amending the Royal Decree Law 6/2022, which we validate in June in this House, which since June is open and has not yet completed the period of amendments, and today we are already validating an amendment to the Royal Decree Law which we should have amended in the ordinary procedure by validating another Royal Decree Law. I think this should make us all look at it, essentially the 350 Members. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. I'm overwhelmed by so much independence in what we're being called upon to do. I wish it was always like this and I wish it was always on everyone's side. Not only is it possible for Catalan companies to make progress on the path of the energy transition. Madam Vice-President, I'm going to say yes, like most of you, but I'm going to make up for the delay and, if I may, I'll ask you a few questions. The energy aspects of the text are guided by the right line of this provision, as they include a number of measures which can reduce the impact of the current price escalation on consumers, and there are other, not minor, measures aimed at accelerating the energy transition through changes in administrative procedures and the determination of charging levels of electric power transmission lines, among others. We understand that it's a real bubble lace to get at the same time that families get to 30 delmes and our economy and our ecosystem get to meet the goals by 2030. It is always possible to be more ambitious with the objectives of the text, but the overall assessment is, as I said, positive, even with the inefficiencies that have already pointed out to you by other speakers. I would like to illustrate that, one month after the publication of this royal decree law, 60% of the cogenerations of the state have taken up the mechanism of renunciation of the specific retributive regime established in the 1st of the royal decree law, as has already been claimed by the associations of the sector, COGEN and ACOGEN. It is not the cost that the slowness of the government has assumed with regard to last year's productions. The production gap implies in megawatts what produce no less than two nuclear power plants. If 60% of cogenerations are reintegrated into production, the question is why not the rest. I don't know about you, but we have the announcements that the most inefficient ones will be reinstated. The other question would be what we will do with those who doubt whether to join the mechanism or not. Finally, I would like to mention that the text contains the contributions of the Directorate-General for Forestry Ecosystems and Environmental Management of La Generalitat de Catalunya, and that is why we are not going to vote for the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u68	Thank you so much. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u69	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, we will vote in favour of this royal decree, as we agree on the importance of the measures to be taken. However, I wanted to take advantage of this debate to make some reflections that have a lot to do with the issues that are going on these days. First, it coincides with our debate on the publication by the prestigious scientific journal The Lancet of a study carried out by 99 experts from 51 institutions, including the World Health Organization and the World Meteorological Organization, under the supervision of the University College of London, which warns that the excessive use of fossil fuels, such as coal, oil and gas, leads to greater global warming that affects cardiovascular diseases and increases heat deaths. Heat-related deaths increased by 68% between 2017 and 2021 over the period 2000-2004, and human exposure to days of high fire risk increased by 61% over previous periods. The Carlos III Institute of Health quantifies in 4700 deaths due to excess temperature between April and September in Spain. According to The Lancet's study, climate change also has consequences for the spread of infectious diseases. Thus, the propitious period for malaria transmission increased by almost a third, 32.1% in parts of the American continent and 14% in Africa. Over the last decade, compared to the period 1951-1960, worldwide, the risk of dengue infection increased by 12%. In fact, the Spanish health authorities again warn us that diseases such as malaria, elzika, Ebola and dengue start to be present in Spain due to climate change. These are data and not speculations. I say this because we have had to listen here, in the debate on budgets, to talk, for example, about climate religion. I would like you, who speak of climate religion, to come up here and rebut this data with data, because this is science and, if you cannot do so, to recognize the gravity of the problem. But when they don't have data to counter the importance of climate change, what they say is, the next step is to reduce China. The phrase 'that reduces China' is 'that they invent' of the 21st century, because here what we are talking about is what model of development we want. [[applause]] A few years ago, not so many, solar panels were produced in Spain, we produced our own solar panels. Unfortunately, the right-wing government of Rajoy's government abandoned the renewable industry, which caused solar panel production in Spain to be eliminated and today solar panels are mostly imported from China. That is the consequence of the 'inventing them' of the 21st century, which we are witnessing in this process of deindustrialization. All this comes to the point that we are actually talking a lot about gas in the last few months, logically, because of the reality of the war in Ukraine, since since the beginning of the Russian invasion there has been a shift in European energy policy and there is a risk of a gradual abandonment of the energy transition towards a model based on renewable energy and a gas fuel recovery, and we are concerned about this situation. In this sense, we can only reject the energy taxonomy which is intended to paint green no less than precisely gas and nuclear energy, following the policies of climate negationism that are more outdated. It is precisely today that the International Energy Agency has published a report in which it tells us that we are reaching a turning point in the use of fossil fuels. Thanks to the impact of renewable energies, we began for the first time to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels. He is also telling us, and it is very interesting, that the changes that are taking place are going to be structural changes. In this sense, for example, Russia, which has so far been the main exporter of fossil fuels, is likely to cease to be so in the future. But since the changes that are going to take place are structural, we believe that we must discard the unbridled idea that Spain should become the European gas hub, because we believe that it is only a backward step in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions. We believe that projects such as the MidCat, now transformed into BarMar, are a new step forward in the dependence of gas and that the construction of a gas pipeline, which will take more than ten years to build and half a century to become profitable, is far from the idea of energy transition that we defend. We have to plan a gas outlet now, no later than 2035. It is essential, as the International Energy Agency has pointed out, and feasible, by relying on energy efficiency, the development of renewable energies and the electrification of the network. This is the right path, ladies and gentlemen, and indeed the data shows that in the last six months, thanks to the new developments in renewable energy in our country, we have saved EUR 12 billion in gas imports. That is the way forward: to speed up the energy transition. It is what can really benefit us and what will also give response to the Spanish young people, who in a very majority way call us for decisive action in defense of the climate. The other day a survey was presented in the House among nine thousand young people called The Future is Climate Basically, what this survey comes to tell us is that more than 90% of Spanish young people believe that their future is going to be seriously affected by the climate crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't believe in science, if you don't care about the data, if you don't care about the economy and industrial development, at least listen to our young people. Please allow them to have a decent future by accelerating the fight against climate change. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u70	Thank you so much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u71	Thank you so much. Very good afternoon, now. I will intervene a little quickly, because we have many issues to deal with that are relatively complex. We are talking about the validation of a real decree law presented to us by the Minister of Ecological Transition, which is a complex decree, of those who mix barbecues with merinas, as always does the Socialist Party; they make a very complex cocktail, with measures ranging from an extension of the deadlines to request an exemption in the obligation to pay certain commissions and financial interests - they give an extension, by the way, because the system created by the Socialist Party is so highly complex and bureaucratic that not even 2% of potential applicants have been able to fill out the forms; that is, they give an extension for their own cogeneration - to the question of cogeneration. It is important that we all understand what cogeneration is: a technology that generates heat and, with that heat that it produces, it also generates electrical energy. It is very good for those industries that need heat, such as the paper industry or the ceramic industry. They put in a cogeneration plant, they produce their heat, they also produce electrical energy that they convert to the system and sell it in a very concrete regulated system, and so they pay for a part of that heat that they need. It is a very efficient system and works very well, but it has a problem: that the Socialist Party invents a mechanism to subsidize gas and excludes cogeneration plants. What's wrong with this? It's priceless. What happens when they're out of price? They have to shut down the cogeneration plant. The minister, in an absolutely incomprehensible speech in which, of course, mixes concepts of one type and another, does not tell us that when a cogeneration plant closes, it closes the industry to which this plant feeds. Thus, it has happened that this summer they have gone to Castellónquinientos and peak workers to the street because of your fault, minister. In Asturias they are depending on a thread, in the area of Navia, two hundred and peak jobs because of your fault, minister. [[Applauds]] In Pontevedra, there's a trash can that's about to close. Finally, they put cogeneration into this royal decree and also put a VAT rebate on the gas bill, but, as a previous spokesman has said, they do not put a rebate on the butane candy, which is the most basic good of these gas-related products. They do not include it, that must be rich and there the VAT is not reduced. The reduction in VAT brought to us by the Government is a real insult, because it proposes a reduction in VAT for October, November and December. Is it not going to be cold on January 1st? On 1 January there is no longer a problem; that is, the VAT reduction is until 31 December and from 31 December everything is perfect. And it is that we find that the Government is covering its cods with new cods, with new cods and with new cods. Always with temporary resolutions and small patches instead of attacking the substantial issue, instead of solving the problem. What's the problem? The problem, Minister, is that you and the previous governments have thrown us into a suicidal energy policy for thirty years. We've put all the eggs in one basket and now, all of a sudden, that basket is broken. That basket is gas and renewables. Mr. De Podemos, postin ecologist, denies with his head. Now I'll explain to you what Podemos proposes. Madam Minister, we have thrown ourselves into an energy race in which we have made ourselves dependent on one product. What happens now? That this product weakens and, therefore, Spain enters into crisis. What does VOX propose? For VOX proposes energy sovereignty, which in all we can, Minister, we depend on ourselves. [[Applauds]] From ourselves, much or little, but if we can take a little advantage of the energy we have here, let's take advantage of it. And the Lord of Podemos comes and tells us his battles and his films and says: renewable, only renewable and nothing but renewable, and the gas is fatal. And it shows me a survey. Who answered that survey? He says that ninety-six percent of young Spaniards. What young Spaniards? Who answered that? The slums that chase you around all day? Who voted that? [[Applauds.-Protests]] Greta Thunberg, whining: Mehan stole childhood. Greta Thunberg, who has lived a systematic life of luxury. These people vote for those issues. Who voted that? Those young girls who said chickens were being raped by cocks. Those are the ones who voted for Podemos's crazy poll. [[applause.- Mr López de Uralde Garmendia shows a graph]] Yes, yes, it teaches me a cheese, rosita, by the way, of the color of Podemos. [[The lady]] The reality, gentlemen, is that Spain has embarked on a crazy career in its energy strategy. You speak, gentlemen of Podemos, of renewable energy, which is very good, but it is that, for all of us to understand each other, Spain has an installed wind power of around 30 gigas, and in the last year there have been six; Spain has a solar power of around 20 gigas, and in the last year there have been an average of 4. Why? Because the sun doesn't shine twenty-four hours a day and the wind doesn't blow twenty-four hours a day. What happens when the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine? That we need what is called a back-up energy, and thank you or because of you the only back-up energy that Spain has today is gas. Because of him. We used to have coal, we had a good nuclear plant, and we had hydraulic power, which you don't like either. In short, we had many cards in our deck we could play according to which one had a better or a worse price, but because of their strategies - Socialist Party and We Can - we are totally sold. [[Applauds]] That is why if a community of standard owners of Spain - which, by the way, are outside their gas mechanisms; that is, the Spanish families, the Spanish little one on foot, are outside their gas subsidy mechanisms, which only apply to the industry, which is not bad but apply it to everyone - it was paying about 200 euros per floor of community cost, it has now been put at around 400 euros. The cost to families has almost doubled for energy, and I am talking about the typical standard community in Madrid that has a heating agas, heating that, by the way, was previously coal and you forced to change the gas, putting them in front of this sword of Damocles that is now going to cut off their heads. In short, like so many times, the government places a hook, a trap for the Spaniards and puts a small bait on it. Minister, stop cheating on Spain and please take the necessary steps to resolve this crisis. Get us out of the marginalist market just like they're going to get Spain out of the Energy Charter Convention. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mariscal Anaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u73	Thank you, President. We will try to dismantle a policy that is based on the announcement - this year they have budgeted 158 million euros in advertising - and bring the vice president to reality, that stops being a tourist of the ideal and knows the country in which she lives. Today it has been published that unemployment in our country is growing by 60 000 people, with an inflation of 10% and in commodities of 21%, and it tells us about happiness, joy and the future. It is not credible, Mrs Ribera; you are not credible. [[Apclaims.-A lady MP: Bravo!]] The implementation of public energy policies is essential for the sustainability of families and the competitiveness of industry, and you renounce that. Do you know that in the first half of this year, according to Eurostat, not according to the PP, we have the most expensive electricity in Europe? [[shows a graph]] The most expensive; Eurostat, Mrs Ribera. About cogeneration, rectification again. 600 companies and 200,000 workers had been forgotten and prevented them from accessing the gas subsidy. You've forgotten, Mrs Ribera! I want to think it's oblivion and nomaledicence. The truth is that, today, thanks to his ability, only half of the cogeneration of our country is working. Proposals. First, take out the new cogeneration auction so that there is more industry using gas to produce ceramics, paper and agri-food, and the surplus to produce electricity, because it means using 10% less raw material, 10% less gas, more efficiency. We also said to him, "Why don't you take out the new retribution of cogeneration, so that you can choose whether you aim for your gas methodology or get the retribution you want?" That's why half is stopped. Look, it's the permanent announcement effect. On 24 June we were finally told, under pressure from our group, that they were lowering VAT on electricity from 21% to 10%. They then extended three royal decrees, because, of course, Mr Sánchez needs to go on television to tell us that the light is coming down. Finally, on 25 June, he told us that this cut of up to 5% reaches 31 December, and today we will approve the reduction of VAT on gas from 21% to 5% because the Feijoo plan, which was approved eight days earlier, forced him to do so, Mrs Ribera. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] We're not very smart at PP, but the winter doesn't end on December 31st, Mrs Ribera, it's cold afterwards. [[Laughter]] So announce now and don't wait for the arrival of... Kenya? It was Kenya, in the end. [[Laughter]] Before you arrive from Kenya, let the President of the Government tell us that he is going to extend the VAT reduction to 5%, Mrs Ribera. Proposals, which then say that there are never proposals. Heating diesel fuel is used in rural areas and is 21% VAT; reduce it to 5%. The gas hydrocarbon tax can reduce it to the minimum that the European Union grants,0.30 euros per gigajulio, Your Honor. They can finally extend VAT by 5% until the situation so requires. By the way, the VAT for small businesses that are above 10 kilowatts is 21 %. I know they can deduce it, but they have cash problems. Put it down to 5%, too, Mrs Ribera. They don't care about the industry at all. It announces the royal decree an auction for the big industry to offer energy when stopping to charge for it if there are problems of demand. You pulled out an auction of 2,700 megawatts. Didn't he do it today? Five hundred have been targeted. In other words, no one in the industrial sector understands that this measure helps them, only a fifth. More than €3.5 billion will be raised for CO2 emission allowances auctions and 2600 will be raised in the budgets. Why do they not allocate 25% to Spanish industry, Madam Vice-President? [[Applauds]] Nor have they extended the accesses and tolls of the large industry, which is also due to expire on 31 December. I know there are elections in the coming year, but things must be done when necessary, Madam Vice-President. It also says the royal decree that will speed up the deployment of renewables. We all agree with that. But let's get to the results. In yesterday's thermosolar auction no one has been targeted, zero. You said that wind farms are being built when each and every one of them are from the auction that brought out the PP in 2016 and 2017 with 8,000 megawatts wind and photovoltaic, that's also forgotten. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance in reference to wind energy spoke of 'eloic'. I think what I meant was that being an industrialist or a wind farm promoter today is heroic. It is heroic because on 31 December, if the Vice-President of the Government, who is the director of our country's energy policy, does not put up the batteries and activates the appropriate administrative procedure, 19 500 megawatts of wind will expire - listen well - when we have installed 29000. Look at the dimension. He hasn't told us anything about this either. There is one very important thing that we like to remember in my parliamentary group on the energy team. Do you know that self-consumers also pay the gas subsidy? You know that too. It's not funny to me, Mrs Ribera; everyone has the way to laugh that he wants. Then, in addition, they continue to tighten the offer. So, bad for renewables; the most expensive gas and they want to shut down the nuclear power plants between 2027 and 2033, and in 2027, Almaraz. Not all of them, because the extremist PSOE has said we don't have to close it, Mrs Ribera. [[Applauds]] The extremist PSOE said no. We proposed last Tuesday that it is necessary to boost hydraulic storage, that is, pumping to use the water that is deposited in the marshes and dams when there is significant electrical demand to generate electricity and, when there is no such demand, to recover it again. Your parliamentary group this Tuesday says no. There is an estimated capacity in our country of 14 gigawatts and he says no. What's the solution? Where do you want to take us? I'm done, President. The result is that between July and September we spent 84% more gas on thermal units than last year, Madam Vice-President, and that more than 16% of that gas we import comes from Russia. You know, because he's at the European Energy Council,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u74	Mr. Marshal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u75	... that Russian dependence must be actively limited in any way and you are the only one in Europe who has devoted itself to increasing it. A lot of happiness. I'm done. By the way, this group is going to ask you, as you finally want to attend, how lucky we are!, how much money we have buried the Spanish taxpayers in the MidCat that you and the President of the Government have decided to close. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u76	Mr. Marshal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u77	How much money have we buried for a future project that is inconsumable and that, as Mr Juantxo López de Uralde rightly says, will not see my eyes? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Renau Martínez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u79	President, Madam Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, over the past year we have had the opportunity to discuss in this Congress the validation of various royal decrees laws related to energy. It's the reality we're living in. All of them have been drafted by the Government with a single intention, under a principal premise. [[Rumors]] I know, Mr Mariscal, that you do not care too much what I am going to say, that you were here with the preconceived idea, but I will tell you that all the real decrees laws that have come here for your validation came with only one intention: to protect citizens from the effects that the rise of energy costs in our country has, above all, as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Today we are discussing the validation of this new Royal Decree-Law focusing on energy measures that go in the same direction, which follows the path of previous ones that have been approved by the Government and that we have discussed here. This royal law decree revolves around four main axes: encouraging renewable energies; protecting the electricity system; protecting the cogeneration industry, especially; and protecting, in general, all consumers. It promotes renewable energies through a series of administrative simplifications to speed up and shorten installation times. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u80	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u81	This is the way. We live in times of urgent measures; yes, but we must never let go of the measures of the important thing: to continue to drive renewables, to drive decarbonisation. Mr. Marshal, you may be looking for a zero in renewables installation, you have it very easy: look at the seven years of the government of Mariano Rajoy and you will see it there. That's the difference. [[Applauds]] And if you want to look - since you were talking about heroics and laeolics - paralyzing wind installations also has it very easy, you just have to look at the Galicia of Feijóo and see the first step he took when he arrived at the autonomic government. [[Applauds]] He said that this royal decree also focuses on giving security to our electrical system. Establish a new demand-side active response service that will provide security to the system through demand-side balancing services. For the nostalgics of interruptibility here we have a system that is in line with the regulations of the European Union. By the way, I've written it down on this page. You know I don't like to waste much time commenting on VOX's issues, so I thank Mr Figaredo that the only thing he has to contribute to this debate is that this government is very bad because we no longer use coal. I really appreciate it. With this I manage to have to answer any of the issues. [[Applauds]] I am going to move on to one of the measures set out in this rule which I think is very important and which is to protect a fundamental part of our industry: cogeneration. Cogeneration is vital for our heat-intensive industry, above all, mainly, and as far as I am concerned, the ceramic industry of my land, of my province, of Castellón. She's going to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of this measure. [[Rumors]] With this royal decree the cogeneration will be able to temporarily renounce its specific retributive regime, the primacy of renewables and cogeneration, in order to enter the market mechanism and benefit from the gas cap, the Iberian exception. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u82	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Renau. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u83	It is noted that it is the last hour of class and, of course, the children already want to go to the courtyard. [[Protests.-Laughter.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u84	Mr. Castellón, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u85	Don't worry, now you'll have time to complain about what I'm going to say, don't worry. He said that cogeneration is a highly demanded measure by industry, which is already active and which has been used to reactivate more than half of the cogeneration that had stopped; there is no 50% running, there is more than 70% running again. Above all - and very important - this royal decree protects consumers, with this royal decree we apply to natural gas, pellets and wood for wood a reduction of VAT from 21% to 5%, just as we are doing with electricity. Mr. Marshal, the truth is that with all that drama you have failed to say that winter is approaching and to take a very big sword and say that the north warns. It is true that the winter and the energy crisis in which we are still present is approaching. That is why the Government, as it is aware, has put in place a contingency plan. By the way, you have also participated in the meetings we had, you have contributed ideas; all the groups in this House have participated in the elaboration and provision of ideas for this contingency plan. Well, not everyone; VOX obviously didn't come to the meetings because they already know that these things work for them don't go very well. [[Rumors]] This plan is an example of the search for consensus carried out by the Ministry of Ecological Transition, the search for consensus carried out by the Government. And in this situation, in these circumstances, I wonder whether this example is going to come, whether we are really all in this House for the search for consensus. When I think of this, I have to address you again, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, because Mr Mariscal has said something else that has drawn much attention to me, he says that we have been taking action because we have been forced to do so. And I say to you that, if that is true, you have a painful marketing, because for you to have been forcing us to take all these measures you could have scored them and put the medal in favour of at least one of them, because you have dedicated yourselves to voting against all the measures that this government has put in place. [[applause]] And since we are, I'll ask you another question, do you still think that the Iberian exception is the Iberian thymus? Ah, they don't say that with their heads like they did it the other time. Sure. This is a measure that has already saved almost 3000 million for consumers in this country, so much so that the European Union thinks that it will cease to be the Iberian exception and become the European standard. And I ask you, do you really still think that the electricity tax should not have been reduced from 21 % to 5 %? Do you still think that the electricity tax should not have been suspended? Or have the excise duty on electricity been reduced to a minimum? Or having lowered all the charges and tolls regulated on the electric bill? Or have you improved with 20 cents each liter of fuel? Or have you established the gratuitousness of the near- and mid-distance transport vouchers? Or having doubled the amounts of the social bonus? Or do they impose tax on the extraordinary benefits of energy and banking? And I'm no longer going to go into increases in the minimum wage, in the minimum living income, in the labour reform, in the rise in pensions, in public salaries... Because, to have forced us to all these things, they have voted against each and every one of them. [[Applauds]] Really - and with this ending - there is a first time for everything. I always tell you that you live against it and today I give you another chance to take away my reason. I don't want to be right, you can go back to reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, this royal decree, like everyone else, is going to come forward, with or without you, with your support or without your support, because in this House there are many other groups that do have a sense of state and a sense of responsibility. [[A lady MP: Yes!]] Today they have the opportunity to vote in favour of measures that clearly help the citizens of this country. The Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Government of this country, the decoalition Government do not need their support or their vote, but this country certainly does not deserve its attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u87	We continue with the item on the agenda relating to the proposals for the plenary of the Chamber to approve the final deliberation and vote of the draft Securities Markets and Investment Services Act, the draft Digital Efficiency Measures Act of the Public Justice Service and the draft law regulating the protection of persons reporting on normative and anti-corruption violations. These proposals shall be put to the vote together with the other matters at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u88	We turn to the last item on the agenda, concerning the request of the Commission on Social Rights and Comprehensive Disability Policies for a further three months extension of the deadline for the conclusion of the Sub-Commission's work on the study of a State Pact against Anti-Gypsyism and Inclusion. That request shall be put to the vote together with the other matters set out below. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u89	We shall begin the voting. Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the Draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2023 submitted by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress; VOX; Plural, Mrs Nogueras iCamero; Citizens and Mixed, Mr Botran Pahissa, Mr Sayas López and Mr García Adanero, and Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 159 against, 186 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u90	As a result, amendments to the General State Budgets Bill for the year 2023 in its entirety are rejected. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government present, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u91	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 17/2022 of 20 September introducing urgent measures in the field of energy in the application of the retributive regime to cogeneration installations and temporarily reducing the rate of value added tax applicable to intra-Community deliveries, imports and acquisitions of certain fuels. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 284 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u92	Therefore, the royal decree law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 167 against, 178 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u93	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u94	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting on the request for the House's plenary to decide on the final vote on the draft law on securities markets and investment services, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 337 against, 1 abstention, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u95	The bill is therefore being brought to the attention of the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u96	Voting on the request for the House plenary's approval of the deliberation and final vote of the bill on digital efficiency measures for the public service of justice, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 334 against, 1 abstention, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u97	As a result, the bill is called to the plenary of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u98	Voting of the motion for a ruling by the plenary of the House on the deliberation and final vote of the draft law regulating the protection of persons reporting on normative infringements and the fight against corruption, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 337 against, 1 abstention, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u99	Consequently, the bill is being brought before the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u100	Request for extension of subcommissions. Request of the Commission on Social Rights and Comprehensive Disability Policies for a further three months extension of the deadline for the completion of the work of the Sub-Commission for the study of a State Pact against Anti-Gypsyism and Inclusion of the Gypsy People. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 294 against, 1 abstention, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-10-27-CD221027.u101	Accordingly, the further extension to the subcommission was approved. Thank you all very much. Have a good afternoon. The meeting rose. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
