ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u1	The meeting was resumed. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the Draft Law on Regulation for the Promotion of Employment Pension Plans amending the consolidated text of the Law on the Regulation of Pension Plans and Funds, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2002 of 29 November 2002. I should like to inform you that the Plural Parliamentary Group has requested the enactment of this bill. That request, as usual, shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendment as a whole. The Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u2	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 22 February last, the Council of Ministers adopted the Draft Law on Regulation for the Promotion of Employment Pension Plans, thus initiating its parliamentary procedure. This bill is part of the negotiated, consensual and systematic process of reform of the pension system initiated in this House with the renewal of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact in November 2020, now fifteen months ago. Born from the negotiation of the agreement, these recommendations marked a clear and ambitious path for reform of the pension system. The recommendations have been our road map for these fifteen months and will continue to be so. As I have repeated many times, good reforms are born of dialogue and agreement. That's what makes them sustainable and credible in the long term. These are desirable features for all public policy decisions, but in the area of pensions it is simply essential. Recommendation 16 of the Toledo Pact, adopted by an overwhelming majority of this House, said the following - let me read it in its entirety - 'Without questioning the centrality of the public pension system, based on a financial system of distribution, article 41 of the Constitution supports the development of complementary systems of a voluntary nature which, in line with the countries of our environment, are articulated as mechanisms of a mixed nature. In its economic and financial dimension they are medium- and long-term savings instruments for workers and investment tool under the supervision of the public authorities, but they also aim to complement - under no circumstances replace - public pensions. Aware of the insufficient and unsatisfactory course that these formulas have taken to date, the Commission reaffirms its commitment to promote their effective implementation, taking into account the recovery of wages and the strengthening of collective bargaining, for which it maintains the recommendation to provide stability with the current model of supplementary social security. In this connection, the Commission stresses the need to promote, in a preferential way, the systems supported in the framework of collective bargaining for employment which form part of the so-called second pillar of the pension model and which must, first and foremost, be non-profit-making. These entities should allow for the development of a sufficient, effective and durable contribution system, in a percentage of the base of common contingency or other objective criteria, and with specific formulas to support lower wages or the most vulnerable professional careers, incorporating the solidarity of certain contingency. In this sense, the effort of workers and enterprises must be adequate, proportionate and sustained over time; it must cover at least the contingencies of retirement and invalidity and death, and it should take place in entities which, preferably, pay supplements in the form of income. In line with what the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority has proposed, in its assessment of tax benefits, it should provide these entities with an adequate and differentiated tax and legal regime, improving the current one and bearing in mind that in no case should such savings systems be considered as mere financial products. This Commission also draws attention to two essential aspects for the functioning of complementary systems: the establishment of an effective and truthful communication system with its partners, whose participation must be regular, and the necessary evaluation of managers regarding their competences and their performance in the process of generating complements'. The Toledo Pact therefore sent us five clear messages: Firstly, the development of the second pillar should in no case be understood as a substitute for the public pension system, based on a distribution system. Secondly, complementary systems have had inadequate and unsatisfactory development and formulas must be sought to make them more appropriate. Thirdly, preferably, this system must be based on employment plans and be part of collective bargaining. Fourthly, they must have formulas to support the lowest wages and the most vulnerable professional careers, and a differentiated tax and legal regime, improving the current one. Finally, fifthly, its functioning must be based on the principles of transparency towards savers and accountability of managers. The bill we are debating today does nothing but respond to this clear and very precise mandate of the Toledo Pact. The first step in explaining this bill is to understand the diagnosis of the party, a diagnosis already taken by the Toledo Pact when it stated that the development of complementary systems had had an insufficient and unsatisfactory course in our country. That's right. Let me give you a brief tour of the history of complementary systems in our country, to understand where we are today and where we are in relation to the countries in our environment with models of social protection and pensions similar to ours. In 1987 the Law on the Regulation of Pension Plans was passed, a fundamental law in the architecture of the supplementary pension system, which was endowed with a huge resilience, even in the face of financial crises such as those we have experienced. However, the most important thing is that over the years, the managed assets of employment pension funds have been losing relative weight in the total number of pension funds. While employment plans accounted for 50% of the total supplementary social provision at the beginning of the 1990s, they currently account for only 25%. In other words, private savings have increasingly been channelled into individual plans in the face of collective plans. This insufficient and unsatisfactory development has several consequences. Firstly, it implies that workers channel their supplementary savings to retirement on a priority basis through individual plans, where their bargaining power is much less than when negotiated in a collective plan. This ends up having a negative impact on high commissions and low profitability for the people who subscribe to them. Secondly, the weak development of the supplementary system, de facto, excluded the possibility of channelling savings to retirement through this mechanism to many workers who had to overcome many obstacles - many, indeed - in order to subscribe to an employment pension scheme. We were generating segmented access to the most cost-effective savings tool for workers and more widespread in the countries of our environment. And, thirdly, the weakness of the second pillar resulted in a low aggregate savings level. This means that the country has a hangicap when it comes to long-term strategic investments. What this bill does is to identify the causes of this insufficient development and propose measures to correct it. Firstly, it was particularly difficult to create and sign employment plans with previous regulations. What this bill does is to simplify its creation and facilitate the posting of large groups of workers through collective bargaining. The fact that these plans are structured on the basis of the employment and professional relationships of those who subscribe to them is fundamental to us. In short, we see the extension of these plans as another element in the process of improving the quality of employment. The reform also incorporates specific regulation for the public sector, which will make it possible to generalise the plans for public employees, especially those of medium-sized and small local authorities that are currently unable to access them. And it allows the development of specific plans for self-employed workers, facilitating in a much more effective way the savings for them, today limited because they have to come unfailingly to the individual plans. Secondly, we face the problem of the structural weakness of the worker or the small individual saver in the face of the financial system that offered him very expensive pension savings products. As a result of this problem, and following international best practices, the reform creates a public fund and a public governance framework designed to correct this asymmetry of bargaining power. It thus ensures that these plans are managed efficiently, transparently and professionally, and that they generate good returns for the workers subscribed to them. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, keep a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u4	Finally, we had a system of incentives that did not favour the development of the second pillar and that, in fact, also helped to direct savings towards individual plans. At this point, the reform implements a system of incentives, both tax and social contributions, to encourage the participation of both workers and businesses in these plans. In the design of these incentives, our main concern has been that these plans and the contributions to them benefit especially middle and low-income workers; in particular, business contributions to employment plans for an average worker will not contribute to social security. This measure will allow for the negotiation of wage increases whose cost is mitigated to the extent that they are based on a rise in tables resulting from pension schemes for workers, and the taxation of contributions to employment plans is improved, especially to facilitate the contributions of workers with lower incomes. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to clarify some misunderstandings about the logic of this reform. The first of these misunderstandings is that the development of the second pillar undermines the first pillar and could pose a medium-term threat to the public pension system. Not at all. This reform is part of a package of measures which alone has been characterised by an extraordinary reinforcement of the first pillar in multiple dimensions. This is mainly the case with the new permanent formula for the revaluation of pensions according to the CPI or with the fulfilment of the mandate of separation of sources, which has served to ensure that the general budgets of the State take charge of the non-contributory expenses of Social Security, and already this year for more than 18 billion euros. But I go further; this improvement of the second pillar in the direction of making it more accessible and equitable is not only compatible with the greatest possible compromise, with the centrality of the public pillar of distribution in our pension system, it is also that the model of supplementary social security foreshadowed in this rule is completely dependent on the existence of the first strengthened pillar. The risk is not that employment plans damage the commitment we all have to public pensions, the risk is that the development of supplementary pensions based mainly on individual plans creates differences in access to supplementary pensions between those who have a high saving capacity and those who do not. It is also said - this is another of the most understood - that this reform is a requirement of the European Union. In no way; it is a requirement, as I have explained in detail, of the Toledo Pact and it is part of component 30 of the recovery plan, because we, the Government of Spain, have also wanted to comply with the recommendation of the Toledo Pact, and we have wanted it because we consider - like all the blocks of the pension modernization process - that it is important that these measures are part of the plan to transform our economy agreed with the European authorities. For us, its involvement in the whole process is important. Finally, the historical low profitability of individual plans is also used to question the need for the deployment of collective plans. It is true that the profitability of individual plans has been disappointing, but that is why what we are trying to correct is to strengthen the second pillar. I will give you a data: Geroa, the Gipuzcoan supplementary social security institution specializing in sectoral plans, has offered in the last twenty years profitability up to three times that of similar individual plans in the same period. It is precisely the lack of development of collective plans that partly explains these low returns, and that is what we want to correct with this rule. This is, in short, a reform that fulfils the mandate of the Toledo Pact. It is a carefully designed reform, which has been enriched by the contributions of companies and workers and I am sure that it will continue to do so in the parliamentary process. Thanks to this bill, supplementary pensions will be able to reach more workers and, more importantly, will strengthen the pension system as a whole. I therefore hope that the amendment to the whole of today's debate will not go ahead and that we can continue to work constructively together to improve this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, the BNG is presenting this amendment to the whole in defence of the public pension system, which must be strengthened and guaranteed, and to reject a path which, although presented as a more defendable alternative to purely private plans, opens the way to a horizon of replacing the public system of solidarity - however denied - with a model of private management capitalisation. That is the great risk, but we also believe it is wrong for the public administration to devote efforts or resources to promoting and incentivising privatized complementary systems rather than concentrating all those efforts on strengthening the public system, providing it with greater robustness and making it more just and supportive, for example by fulfilling the commitment to raise minimum pensions to match the inter-professional minimum wage and bringing both up to 60% of the average wage, as set out in the European Social Charter. Of course, many of the actions being undertaken by this Government in the field of social policies are unfortunately far from moving in the right direction. It is clear that we are in front of a package of reforms that we do not share, but which has an explanation. Employment, taxation and social security are three of the fundamental instruments of minimum distribution and rebalancing of wealth in a society within the capitalist system. That is why, under the ideological and political domination of neoliberalism, changes tend to go hand in hand in these areas; and that is why, too, the European Union conditions - yes, it conditions - as a condition for the reception of the so-called European reconstruction funds the implementation of new reforms and the consolidation of some of the previous ones, and to this goal the Government has been launched without taking into account whether the measures involve a further deterioration of the public welfare system. Just a few weeks ago, this Congress approved the new labour regulations, which unfortunately do not repeal the labour reform of the People's Party, but consolidate most of the brutal cut in labour rights in the years 2010 and 2012. For its part, tax reform has already been announced in component 28 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. A report by experts on the subject was commissioned, although the well-known recommendations point to a direction that the BNG believes is wrong and departs from a fair and redistributive tax policy that lowers non-progressive taxes, such as VAT on essential products and services, and increases them to those who have the most, recording, for example, the great fortunes or profits of large companies that do business with public resources and essential services, such as electricity. The third of the major reforms is that of pensions. Although the declaration of intent, as expressed in recommendation 0 of the Toledo Pact Commission, reaffirmed the commitment to the maintenance, improvement and adaptation of the public pension system. The fact is that the concrete measures adopted put this objective at risk, in our view, because they lay the groundwork for an evolution that can end up undermining. The first of the reforms, already undertaken through Law 21/2021, as has happened with labour reform, does not repeal previous reforms. In fact, the BNG voted against because it consolidates one of the most damaging elements of the 2011 reform, the increase in the retirement age to 67 and the calculation period to 25 years. In addition, the penalty for early retirements, even with 40 years of contributions, is maintained, which we believe is tremendously unfair, and public resources are allocated to encourage so-called delayed retirement, while 40 % youth unemployment is maintained, without any recovery of formulas such as partial retirement or the relief contract to mitigate it. Not content with this, it was announced at that time that reforms were still pending: a possible increase in the calculation period up to 35 years, the activation of the so-called Intergenerational Equity Mechanism and the proposal before us, the introduction of employment pension schemes, which are considered complementary, but which will mean breaking the solidarity and redistributive function of the public pension system. This proposal has as its background, it is true, recommendation 16 of the Toledo Pact, but it must be remembered that the increase in the total volume of supplementary plans is another requirement of the European Union, one of the most important to access the recovery plan, and it is clear that although they claim that it is a system that would add to the existing system, not a substitute for public pensions, the stalemate of the reform shows that in time that can be the horizon. Since the time of the government of the PP headed by Aznar, in fact, a clear promotion of private pension schemes to subscribe with financial institutions, with significant tax deductions, has begun. However, neither the deductions - which entail losses of public revenue - nor the constant campaigns of disinformation interested about an imminent collapse of the public system, achieved a wide implementation of private funds in the Spanish State. They have only increased their presence in countries where they have been established on a compulsory basis or public pensions are not a sufficient solution for their low level. Because there is a clear correlation: when the public pension system guarantees a decent pension the development of private pensions is less. Its deterioration is therefore a prerequisite for the expansion of capitalization pension systems and, therefore, we also draw attention to the fact that the promotion of complementary systems of collective bargaining end up eventually establishing it as a substitute, an objective that has not been achieved so far with the formulas put into effect previously. The standard creates a public sector-driven employment fund that will be managed by the private sector. More business for the bank. Why? The management of these funds could be carried out by the General Treasury of Social Security; moreover, public management could be carried out even in a decentralized way, giving way, in our case, to compliance with article 33 of the Statute of Autonomy, which provides for the transfer to the Galician Administration of the management of the economic regime of Social Security in Galicia. In addition, the mechanism envisaged through collective bargaining entails introducing a serious factor of inequality between workers, since it is clear that this premise will not be the same in large enterprises or in sectors such as industry as in other more disjointed ones such as commerce or hospitality, let us no longer talk about very precarious sectors such as home services. It will therefore become a new element of inequality and discrimination between workers. What is clear is that reform will once again empower, as did the non-derogation of labour reform, the centralization of collective bargaining. In addition, it is clear that contributions, both those made by the worker and the business side, will be made out of wages. Therefore, these pension schemes are in fact a deferred salary. It is particularly serious that in the current situation of economic crisis, with high job insecurity and low wages, there is a bet that part of the wage is deferred in the retirement age, a remuneration that is no longer received at the present time and, attention, which also stops contributing to social security. The contribution to the plan will mean receiving a lower wage, which is particularly traumatic for middle- and low-income sectors of the population, for which it is simply impossible to compromise a deferred wage for a distant future when they need to think about the present and how to reach the end of the month. But in addition, and this is really important, by contributing for a lower wage the worker will also have access to a lower public pension. We are therefore talking about the deterioration of the purchasing power of public pensions. It is even more serious that public progress has been made on the possibility of State funding to promote these complementary systems. This, to a greater extent, of the income that would cease to be received by a part of the salary that does not contribute, possible bonus in business contributions or tax deductions, all of which, in our view, should go to strengthen the public system. The reality is that it is intended to integrate a second pillar into the system for the future, as the replacement rate falls because the public pension system is devalued, and to continue to promote the so-called third pillar, which is that of individual savings mechanisms, i.e. purely private pension schemes. The confrontation between a distribution system and another mixed one wants to move towards the existence of a basic or minimum level of care and a level of professional type that is being updated with the contributions that are made. That is why all the previous reforms sought to strengthen the contributory character, diluting from within the solidarity character of the current public system of distribution. In short, gradually abandon the criterion of internal solidarity and seek the maximum match between the taxpayer and the benefit. Clearly, the BNG rejects the horizon in which the gurus of neoliberalism would undoubtedly be satisfied; a model in which private or corporate capitalization systems were the main support and public pensions were actually complementary on an assistance basis. We cannot, therefore, share a reform that ensures business for financial institutions, while reducing social security income to promote a system that will undermine the sustainability of the public pension system. As we have already said on many occasions, the approach taken in this area is not in line with what a truly left-wing Government should defend. It seeks to reduce and cut spending rather than increase revenue. In the view of the BNG, employment creation should be used to reduce working time to better distribute them and to improve wages; ultimately, more stable and quality employment, thus achieving an increase in income that also ensures stability, guarantees of solidarity and redistribution, typical of the public pension system. Public promotion of pension schemes, whether mixed or private, to the detriment and detriment of the public pension system is not the right way; otherwise. At the moment, it must be committed to strengthening and improving the public system, the only way if left-wing policies are truly defended, in order to ensure the well-being of the workers of the people's classes and of the peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u7	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u8	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill has many good things - you have explained them, Minister - and I do not think that it deserves an amendment as a whole. What it does have is something that leaves much to be desired and deserves partial amendments. We agree that encouraging savings is a very positive thing, as public pensions tend to be equal and, in general, are always lower than the income of working life, so I think it is a natural thing for citizens, when they retire, to pretend to have a standard of living similar to what they had before. That is why these complementary measures are good. Having said that, the reduction of contribution ceilings that have been made, I believe it is negative even for the collection, above all, thinking that the tax advantages in the rescues have already disappeared and, moreover, in the statement of the IRPF, when this occurs, the interests that have been generated over the course of life are added to the marginal; with which, Hacienda recovers more and more what has been decreasing over time. One thinks he has 50,000 euros, for example, and at real time he realizes that he has only 30,000 or 35 000. It usually happens. There are important loopholes. For example, a household employee does not have access to these publicly protected plans like other workers. Let's imagine someone who earns the interprofessional minimum wage and wants to contribute 100 euros every month, because he can contribute them, he has to go to a private plan and not to this type of plan, and neither encourages the employer as a company in these cases. Another question, that the limit for the self-employed is lower, has no logical argument, because it is not good for us that in practice they always bring less than this limit, they have a right like any other, I understand. Nor is it clear what happens to a worker who has an employee. It can be interpreted, it is clear, but with effort. Yesterday, the Committee on Territorial Policy discussed the translation into the co-official languages of the rules and commented on the difficulty sometimes of interpreting the meaning of what is intended in the original language itself. So, here's something that, once interpreted, leaves much to be desired, not to say it's a doll. For example, the table of contribution coefficients of workers in relation to employers; it turns out that if an employer contributes 1500 euros, the worker can contribute 2250, coefficient 1.5; but if he or she contributes one euro plus or 100, he or she contributes 1600 and the worker can only contribute coefficient 1, 1600. Thus, because the employer has contributed more to it, it turns out that the worker can contribute less. That's a mathematical incoherence - tell the Finance Advisor - that I've been repeating all along. When there are steps, be careful, it is very easy to make a formula, there are applications, you can make attachments, but this, of course, does not have a pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u10	Thank you, President. Minister, the public pension system is one of the pillars of the welfare state, surely one can be more proud in the case of the Spanish state; not so of education, which remains heavily segregated through concerts, or of health, which is also very much privatized. But the public pension system is what we should be most proud of. However, we know that it has been under siege for decades because it is precisely because private capital wants to get into this area of retirement, in this management of what was called the workers' retreat in its day. Precisely, he wants to enter simply and plainly to benefit. They are doing so little by little with the help of governments of all colors, with the help of a speech and a rumor, that there is no money for pensions or that the demographic pyramid is tense when we all know that the problem is that there are no workers contributing, it is that unemployment does not allow people who would like to contribute to it to be contributing or even people who are working to pay low wages and, therefore, low contributions. [[Rumors]] It is not that there are no contributing workers, it is that they could be contributing much more if they had stable and well-paid jobs. Private banking also has the help of the European Union, which among the conditions for the Next Generation funds - it has also been commented - have agreed reforms like the one we are discussing today. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, please, you can keep a little quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u12	There's only one point today, it's not difficult. The Government's proposal for enterprise pensions is a source of entry for banks and other private enterprises in the area of pensions, as called by law, management entities and depository entities. We see, moreover, other worrying issues, leaving pensions in the framework of collective bargaining between trade unions and employers has risks such as, for example, a greater differentiation between sectors of the working class, in those sectors in which the struggle and presence of trade union bargaining are most organized, such as industry, and in those sectors where the trade union muscle is much smaller, such as hospitality. If the wages between industry and hospitality are already different, if we now introduce tensions from companies that will ostensibly be better where trade unions can fight better, they discriminate more to other sectors of the working class, for example - it has already been mentioned - trade and industry. A system that is public and distributed is much fairer for all sectors of the working class. We will vote in favour of the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block and of all the proposals that seek to consolidate and expand the public pension system, and we will vote against any measures that open the doors of this public pension system to private banking or that seek to cut rights. We have already voted against the recommendations of the Toledo Pact precisely because it opened these doors, we have voted against the law that the Government brought in December because it consolidated cuts, because it penalized early retirement and because it did not increase minimum pensions, and in this same sense - and I conclude - we oppose the extension of the calculation period beyond twenty-five years, as all the probe balloons that are coming out of their ministry point out. You say no, we'll see you when the legislature's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u13	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. Minister, there is no majority social demand around what is proposed by this reform, there is a social demand if it is understood as social to the financial sectors of the State and the European Union. On the other hand, this reform invades autonomous competences. They want to impose a single public fund. And third, and not least, an important decapitalization line is being promoted. I'm going to try to explain these three axes. With regard to social demand, it cannot be denied that since the 1980s, from the international financial powers, there has been pressure against public social security systems. Remember that first reform in Chile, for example, that it is often used as an example of dismantling in this regard and that the controlling powers of large finance continue to press, and also remember the European white paper and all the recommendations of the European Bank. I don't have to remind you, because you are being reminded of it monthly with every document that is submitted. And how is this pressure being made from these powers? By encouraging doubt about the viability and sustainability of Social Security and by pushing for the imposition of other types of plans, plus individual plans, etc., but it is also this system of collective pension plans. And it must not be forgotten that precisely all these powers have created a context since 2011 and 2013 of cuts in the pension system, cuts that some have been able to reverse, but many others remain: the retirement age, the contribution periods required for pre-retirement, the periods of time required to calculate the amount of pensions, the non-recognition of long contributory careers towards pre-retirement, the case of mutualists who have violated many rights and who have to face them, and these age cuts, etc., will have an impact on future pensions in particular. Therefore, we are facing these reforms within a context of maintaining cuts. The second axis I was commenting on was non-compliance with the Government's competence framework. Autonomic governments have jurisdiction over voluntary social security entities, and this creates significant risks for existing entities. You are proposing a single state public system, the only one, that will be controlled and directed by the corresponding ministry. If they do not do this reform with a centralizing spirit, why do they not provide in their law that different self-governments may have the capacity to promote employment pension funds and that these employment funds also take account of public promotion employment pensions, the same figure? Why don't you look at that? Why have they taken this reform precisely in this line and not built a public voluntary social welfare entity along the lines of mutuals? Because they have created a figure above it that has important centralizing risks. Thirdly, you said that this does not decapitalise Social Security. This law, through the direct and indirect grant mechanisms it entails, will weaken the social security system and, in addition, introduces mechanisms that run counter to the expanded objectives of the intergenerational equity mechanism. This mechanism, which we approved here three months ago and which consisted of an increase of 0.6 points in contributions, supposes that we will be able to raise approximately 28 billion annually to strengthen this pension fund in view of the possible deviations that exist. Now, three months after that adoption, we are being offered sanctions that are going to entail billions of revenue losses for Social Security. At present, with these exemptions, which are 115 euros per employee per month - 106 euros on average - and which will amount to 1380 euros per year, if we take into account that at present there are 600 000 contributors already of this type of business funds, it will amount to 830 million annually this year, this year, as soon as this law is passed, as soon as it is in force, if it applies to people who currently have funds. Another thing is that you're thinking that it's not applicable to people who have corporate funds right now, which would be a lot more serious. In the coming years, if at present for these 600 000 contributors it is 830 million, if the number of mutualists who are integrated into the system is multiplied by five, it will be 4 billion; they will be able to draw up accounts. This project, Minister, is to undress one saint to dress another, it is very bad business for the workers, it is to weaken a redistributive system, Social Security, to dress and strengthen a private pension fund system. That is why I think he deserves an amendment as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u16	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot share an amendment to the whole which not only opposes a certain bill to boost employment plans, but fundamentally opposes the very existence of the second pillar. We cannot share it when, moreover, it is protected in reasons beyond the legal and constitutional parameters of the matter and when it is also opposed to the characterization of these pension schemes made by the Toledo Pact itself, which is the one that should be taken as the guiding thread not only of political activity or legislative activity, but also of political consensus. If we look at the legislation, the Constitution itself reflects the possible existence of such complementary systems in its article 41 and does so, in addition to article 50, together with the public pension system, but integrating them both into a benefit system, constituted one in a compulsory and one in a free manner and without questioning the centrality of the public pension system. In addition, complementary systems, both now and in recommendation 16 or earlier recommendations of the Toledo Pact, are first characterized as long- and medium-term savings instruments for workers, but also as an investment tool under the guardianship of the public authorities, but above all are characterized as non-substitutive benefits of the public pension system. That is to say, they serve the public system in terms of offering workers an area of savings that is encouraged from the point of view of their complementarity with the benefits of the public pension system and which, as the Toledo Pact itself says, complements and does not replace public pensions. We therefore believe that anyone who wishes, as is the case in this case, to confront the systems complementary to the public pension system is mistaken. Planting it as a dichotomy is a mistake, as it is also involved in excesses not only legal and constitutional, but also in reasoning linked to the political agreement on the Toledo Pact. Furthermore, in our view, the amendment is intended to be based on statements that we do not share, that we understand that some are also without contrast and that they are heading towards a false debate because we believe that it is dogmatic and that it is extremely ideological towards certain positions in which, legitimately, but which we do not share, the hegemony of public services and exclusivity is claimed. Firstly, we disagree with this training, according to which there are three fundamental instruments for the distribution of wealth in society, including in them, alongside taxation, the public pension system and employment. Such a premise, Your Honor, is false. Neither can employment be conceived as an immaterial asset subject to distribution, but it is reflected as a right in the Spanish Constitution itself in article 35, let alone understand that the public pension system as being of distribution must be understood in such a redistributive sense of the term, as a unanimous doctrine and also the Toledo Pact itself recalls. Such a reference, such characterization is made with regard to the field of solidarity and consists in the fact that it is the present generations of workers who support those who are today in the status of pensioners, to 'the intergenerational solidarity and within each generation, and through the equitable sharing of burdens', as expressly quoted in Recommendation 0 of the Toledo Pact, since the redistributive sense of wealth - and this is an inexorable affirmation of any society - is always tied to taxation and not to another tool. Secondly, our position is to understand, as the amendment does, that employment systems are an euphemism to call genuine private pension schemes and true Trojan horse, as it says later. He therefore understood that the only model of compensation should be wage, that collective bargaining was not useful for that purpose, or that the management of employment plans would be as disastrous as he said that they were private funds, which, by the way, was not only a legal and constitutional tool, but also that of many individuals and self-employed persons. Ladies and gentlemen, our data is not that, and you can verify it. In Euskadi they have the best example that it can not only be managed well, it can not only be managed in terms of profitability, but also that it is done in a correct, honest and yielded way, that work is done efficiently. It is not fashionable to talk well about those who manage assets, but I guarantee you that in Euskadi - and elsewhere it can happen the same - there are very professional people who can do their job very efficiently. He added that the supplementary pension sector had developed in other countries either because it was compulsory or because the public pension was reduced. I don't think you've looked at pensions or the system in England, France, Holland, Denmark or many other places in our most immediate environment. In them, Your Honor, that distribution, that combination of public and supplementary pensions is a model of distribution and capitalization. Its citizens have greater purchasing capacity, longer longevity and the country itself has greater wealth. And I don't think everyone's wrong. Finally, I would like to say that it is not good to block the possibility of using collective bargaining. To impose stifling through collective bargaining is not the same. Let the social workers do their job. Let them do as they see fit and give them a vote of confidence, it may surprise them. Your Honor, Mr Rego, we cannot share this amendment, but we cannot share any other reasoning that has been made here concerning competition interference. Euskadi has competence in this field and has developed them; it has a law of voluntary social security entities and can develop it. I could also develop it to the point of establishing a public system for the management of these funds, as does the legislation, the bill that we are now using, but what we cannot admit is the opposite. You, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, have pointed out to us a moment ago that it is a matter of competing interference. No, no, It would be in competition if the exerciser pointed out that Euskadi must have it with those characters. If we can regulate it, we will. What cannot be imposed is that we should do so from the law of the State. That would be the competitive interference that would be inadmissible. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a tool that we believe is useful; that it is compatible with the public pension system; that it is beneficial, even for the labour relations system; and we will support it, in due course, with the appropriate modifications, of course. There are many amendments that we are going to be able to put forward and which we think we are going to put forward, but at the moment we do think that we should continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I ask you to remain silent, I am asking for something as basic as having a minimum of education; a minimum of respect for those who have the use of the word, for those who struggle to keep the thread, and for those who want to listen, what it is hard for us also to follow what you are saying; and a minimum of empathy, because when you come up to this rostrum I imagine that you also like silence. I ask you, please, not to hold conversations from the seat. If you want to talk, get out of the Chamber and then come back in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u18	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, very good morning. We are debating here today the amendment to the full refund that the BNG has tabled to regulate the boost of employment pension schemes; an amendment that my group cannot share for the simple reason that it is based - as has already been said here - on false premises. On the basis of false premises it is not correct in the conclusions. I'll explain myself, Mr. Rego. Contrary to what you say, promoting pension schemes, whether for employment or for individuals, outside the public social security system does not at all mean a reduction in the latter. These are complementary actions by definition, and the Minister has also said so. Mr Rego, what does diminish and threaten the public pension system is the denial of the reality in which your party, the BNG, lives. Because an almost limitless increase in the replacement rate and, in general, in the expenditure on social security is dispatched in this amendment of a pen with milk accounts in a labour market with more stable and quality employment, which is what you are asking for. Of course, we too want more stable and quality employment, but we cannot ignore the more basic arithmetic and demographic reality of our country. Mr Rego, what is diminishing and threatening the public pension system - and I also say this to the minister - is a reform such as that adopted last December, which lacks the slightest intergenerational solidarity; that is why we are voting against it. The draft law on the regulation of the promotion of employment pension schemes comes with many home defects; so many that, despite their good intentions and that we share their objective, we are not clear whether we are dealing with a project that does rather evil or worse than good. And I explain myself, minister. We find a number of problems which I will explain later but which, of course, are objections whose solution will be raised in the process of amendments to the joint text and in the subsequent negotiation; negotiations which we in my parliamentary group, Citizens, face in a constructive spirit and with the wish that this draft will come forward. We therefore hope that this time the Government will have a minimal predisposition to look beyond the Council of Ministers and establish a sincere dialogue with the House, because we are used to something else. I'll give you the last example. It was exactly a week ago that I and my colleague Edmundo Bal met with his Government to present a battery of measures, both in the short and medium term, in order to ease the pocket of the Spaniards. Some sent them out of a pen because they were against their ideology, as are all those relating to nuclear energy, and the others have simply obviated them; and we continue to wait. As I was saying, we share the objective of this bill and we agree that, despite the strong weight of collective bargaining in our country, pension schemes in the context of labour relations have never yet taken the weight that they do in other countries. For example, in Germany or Belgium, coverage reaches 40%, while in Spain it reaches only 10% of workers. However, as I said, the concrete articulation of this bill creates a number of problems for us. The first, in the architecture of the promoter and follow-up committee and also in the special control committee. The second problem is the lack of guarantees in the management independence of this public pension fund, with an excessive weight of the ministry without sufficient control mechanisms, particularly in the investment strategy. Thirdly, we also find problems related to the previous one, such as the inclusion in the bill of non-economic criteria in the fund's investment decisions, moving away from its priority objective, which is its profitability and the minimization of risks. The fourth problem raised by the draft law is that you add criteria as vague as - I open quotes - the social impact. With this collection there is an excessive margin for political interference in such a sensitive area, because, although we share in encouraging socially responsible investments, we do not believe that this very specific law is the right instrument, but should be done within a general framework of investment regulation and corporate social responsibility. The fifth problem is the fit of collective bargaining with regard to simplified employment pension schemes, because they must be seen as part of the sectoral collective bargaining process, which aims to enable them to access all types of workers' pension schemes, without depending on their individual economic capacity or the size of their enterprise. Although a SME often has pension plans for its workers, they would be covered if the plan were sectoral, but it is not deduced from the law that these sectoral public employment plans should entail compulsory membership. The law should therefore aim to ensure that every company and every worker has a pension plan without imposing on them which one. And the sixth and last problem we have identified is that we believe that the tax benefits provided for in this bill may not be enough to make employment pension schemes attractive. In short - it has already ended - it is a text in which we share the objective, but we disagree on certain aspects that we aspire to and wish to improve in the parliamentary process. For all this which I have just said, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support the entire amendment tabled by your group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. We are going to vote in favour, absolutely. In Esquerra Republicana we are against the proposal of the Spanish Government, which, in our view, is against the current public pension system. We argue that the pension system should be only public and not public. And that is that we are not against private pensions or employment plans; we are not against it. If a company with its workers wants to agree on a savings plan, a health loan or a Christmas basket with champagne and pasta, congratulations, but we don't have to pay the others. It seems to us that whoever wants to hire a financial product, as I said before, does; but we certainly prefer that public money - that is what we think - serves to increase minimum pensions, correct the gender gap that women suffer or for a general increase in pensions, and not to finance companies or workers who can afford a private pension plan that, without being mostly rich - certainly are not - would not be the most vulnerable either. The public pension system is vital for the distribution of wealth. It is one of the jewels of the crown of the welfare state - or of what should be the welfare state - in order to guarantee one another solidarily, among all - the working class, waged and self-employed, waged and self-employed - a dignified future and a desirable old age. For that reason, we voted against recommendation 16. We are not bound to it if we are consistent; in fact, we made a particular vote of suppression that the House, although mostly progressive, curiously voted against. It follows that our disagreement with the approach to this bill is radical and that is why we will vote in favour of this amendment as a whole. Esquerra sees no need to boost private pensions, nor does she believe it is a social demand. We don't think so. Left is only for the empowerment of the public pension system. We do not believe that it is the function of any Government, let alone the Ministry of Social Security, to empower any financial product. In fact, they use State budget funds and tax rebates, which always translate into social cuts, to encourage this financial product that has so far had no success; that is why we must encourage it. But there's still more and it's even worse. In addition to incentivising it, it is intended to encourage in part from the Social Security box itself. According to the fourth final provision, part of the pension funds of the company in question are not going to contribute; that is, it is money that employers should pay to Social Security and it is part of our deferred salary, but it is going to pay them private pensions and not public pensions. I think it's clear. This law is undoubtedly the gateway to the privatization of pensions in a manner similar to the English system of charitable pensions complemented by private pensions. Obviously, not everything in Europe is glory and there are worse pension systems than ours. Ours is a great pension system. There they do need that, because the replacement rate does not reach 50% and, logically, it has to be implemented or left in misery. And they don't hide it, they don't hide that it's an open door. They are literally talking about the creation of a public promotion employment pension fund managed by the private sector; he stressed, managed by the private sector. And time to time what this is going to mean. Esquerra Republicana considers that public pensions are a right and, in addition, a right that we pay ourselves with contributions. No one gives it to us; it's our salary, our salary. Pensions must not be used for any bank to do business, they must be used for people to live decently and enjoy their deferred wages, our deferred wages. [[Applauds]] So, let me be very clear: our model is not this one or the one in the Constitution. No, no, it's not. Our model is that of a public pension system managed by the public authorities with public money. The system is viable and works, as we have shown. It is here that Minister Escrivá has a great responsibility, because he has helped make it sustainable when he has carried out the separation of sources, which had to have been done many years before; so thank you for that intervention, but not for this other one. As I said before, the pension system must be public and managed by the public authorities with public money. The system is viable and works, as has been shown. Anyone who proposes something different, who tells us what his real motivations are and who wonders why the left are opposed to his privatization of pensions and why they are going to bring forward a law with the right; so it is going to be, a law with the right. Sadly, once again the Progressive Government of the PSOE and the United States We can - and here I am addressing above all to the United States We can - be submissive with the institutions of the European Union dominated by the right and submissive with the neoliberal European Commission serving the financial system. It was a condition. Labour reform was a condition. There could be no discussion as to what things in the social dialogue was a condition for the funds. Let's be clear. If this had been another time, the ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We could be talking about the imposition of the troika, etc., and now it's not. It's not like that now. Not so long ago you said PP and PSOE were troika puppets. Well, that's all there is now. We make a pension plan that people do not demand, that goes against the public system and opens the door to a private public pension system that is not our model. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u21	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u22	Thank you, President. We will vote against the amendment to return the bill, because we believe that its processing is a compromise in the report evaluating the reform of the Toledo Pact, because it goes against article 41 of the Spanish Constitution itself, because it goes against collective bargaining and because it is not true that it endangers the public pension system. I cannot deny that in the last two years there has been a 180-degree turn with this Government, but a 140-degree turn in social security policies. We have made notable progress on the issue of the separation of sources of social security funding as an indispensable means of restoring the financial balance of our pension system. The last pension law is where we ensure the assumption by the State of the improper expenses that has historically been borne by the Social Security Fund in an unfair way, with investments in active employment policies and in family benefits linked to the reconciliation of personal and family life that, as I say, should never have been financed by the pension fund. Significant progress has also been made, although much remains to be done - and I acknowledge this - in guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions. It has been implemented with recommendation No. 2 of the Toledo Pact with the adoption last December of Act No. 21/2021 recovering the annual increase in contributory pensions under the CPI and also repealing the sustainability factor of the People's Party, because that was a real threat to public retirement pensions since 2013. Thanks to this law, the January letters informing our pensioners that the annual increases in their pensions were going to be 0.25 per cent, which was the main factor in the degradation of the guarantee of sufficiency of our public pensions and the year after year their purchasing power. The Intergenerational Equity Mechanism has also been approved, something that the amendment as a whole says has not been done. There he lies, clearly he lies. Thanks to the approval of this mechanism the pensions of the so-called baby boomers generation will be secured. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is not so much in view of where we come from, although we still have measures to be taken to strengthen our public pension system, based on the principles of universality, distribution, intergenerational solidarity and contribution, so that it can guarantee Spanish citizens adequate pensions and regularly updated according to the mandate of Articles 41 and 50 of the Spanish Constitution. Having said that, we share some concerns in a number of things. First of all, there is nothing essentially new in this bill. Pension schemes complementary to the public system, the second pillar, have been in existence for decades in our country. They are set out in Article 41 of the Spanish Constitution, in Directive 2016/2341, in Regulation 2019/1238 of the European Union and in the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2012 of 29 November. Therefore, the bill does not extend the scope of private pension schemes, because they already existed and do not replace the public pension system. What it does is to overcome the current model of private pension schemes, that third pillar which does endanger the public pension system, which might seem like privatization and which has been limited in the last two general State budgets. I say clearly that we are two different parties in the Government, but we share many things and, as a result, public pensions today are more guaranteed than with the Government of the People's Party, with the Government of Mariano Rajoy, which greatly degraded them. [[Applauds]] However, there are many other things we don't share that we don't like. We do not like the name of the Public Promotion Pension Fund, because that name does not respond to reality, since it is not the State that promotes pension schemes. A promoter is making contributions and the state is not going to put a single euro for these pension schemes. Each social security euro, each public euro, would be in the public pension plans, in the first pillar. This does not change and is in compliance with article 41 of the Spanish Constitution when it says that assistance and supplementary benefits must be free. Therefore, we do not like that name, it should not be 'public promotion'. On the other hand, the State should also not be held responsible for contributions to pension schemes and should not be responsible for any measure affecting the fate of the investments of these pension funds, although, as I say, it is guaranteed in this law that not a single euro of social security will go to the second pillar. What has been tried is to bring to this fund those pension schemes that already exist, which are the result of collective bargaining and which are in the collective agreements and also in the agreements of self-government organizations and in the public administration. And this - I have to say - has been done without agreement or social dialogue, that is, it has been done without the social partners, trade unions, business organisations and self-employed organisations, which are negotiating these pension plans. We also do not like the exclusion of part of the contribution base and we do not like the tax exemptions either, because this diminishes the amount of our public pensions, diminishes the Social Security box and also the Public Finance. With regard to the collectives to whom this law is addressed, the most important thing was the reform of the RETA. The reform of the NETWORK was more important than this law, and I say this clearly. With regard to officials, the State has not recovered 0.5% of the contribution to officials. It is therefore rare for the State to promote a pension scheme when it is not making its contribution. With regard to the social security workers of the general system by collective bargaining - and with this I conclude - only the strongest sectors - telecommunications, banking, tobacco, the automotive sector, the chemical industry, the highest in the agri-food sector - it is those who have this type of pension funds, the sectors with the highest wages.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u23	Mrs. Franco, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u24	I'm done with this, President. The relevant thing was to bring a law that would protect precisely those with lower wages and, therefore, lower pensions. There are 2 million pensioners who receive pensions of 700 euros, 34% of pensioners. The average pension in Spain does not reach 60% of the average of the European Social Charter. That is where we have to go, towards the sufficiency of the public pension system, putting a stop to higher pensions to ensure minimum and non-contributory pensions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u25	Ladies Franco, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u26	I'm done with this. Our work is going to go in this direction because, whoever governs, pensions are defended and we are going to guarantee the public pension system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are discussing an amendment to the full refund of the bill to boost employment pension schemes presented by the Gallego Nationalist Block. It presents in its justification curious statements that show that they live completely away from reality. First, he mentions that the belief that private management is more efficient than public management is false. It may be, but it's not the most common thing, at least in Spain. Let us remember that the public accounts in Spain have recorded continued deficits since 2008 that will continue in the coming years, 3.2% in 2024 according to the Government's estimate. Honestly, I don't know any efficient managed private companies that have been in loss for fourteen years and continue to exist. If Mr. Rego knows any, please let us know about her. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the net assets of the consolidated accounts of the state public sector of the year 2020 - that is, the difference between what we have and what we have - shows a negative figure of 579 412 million euros, a whole example of 'efficient' management for Mr Rego and the Gallego Nationalist Block. What is clear is that both the Gallego Nationalist Block and the Communist Social Government do not know the concept of efficiency of public expenditure, and this is demonstrated by the Institute for Economic Studies, which quantifies the inefficiency of public expenditure by EUR 60 billion, an inefficiency which had already been demonstrated a few years ago by the political party Union Progreso and Democracy. Secondly, it mentions disinformation and manipulation campaigns on the viability of the pension system. It may be, but I imagine it will refer to the ongoing disinformation campaigns of the Government and its partners. Let us remember that the Social Security accounts are balanced by transfers and loans from the State and that, given the deficit situation in the public accounts, there will be an increase in the total debt of the public administrations; a debt that already stands at 1 427 763 million euros, that is, more than 30 100 euros per capita. Or perhaps we should include in the disinformation campaign to the International Monetary Fund, which is warning that if inflation is at 5.1% - let us remember that we are at 7.6% - pension spending will increase by €77 billion per year. Another issue mentioned as justification for this amendment is that it cannot be accepted as a general mechanism for workers to be able to supplement their public pensions. They even talk about the possibility of transferring the management of the economic regime from Social Security to Galicia, an obsession of the independenceists in which they will always have us, as we have shown with the presentation of a remedy of unconstitutionality for the rupture of the single Social Security box. [[applause]] In terms of efficiency, I remind you that the debt of the Autonomous Communities in September 2021 was 310,180 million euros. Let's see, an example of 'efficiency'. Let us now proceed with the bill to boost employment pension schemes. We are talking about a bill that remains short in its proposals, consolidates inequalities and points to political leadership. First, there are clearly insufficient tax incentives, incentives that focus on bonus social security contributions, but they forget to incorporate an additional incentive into corporate tax, as it existed until 2012. Secondly, they set limits on the maximum contributions of workers to their employment plans, and make them dependent on the contributions of companies. It seems that the members of the BNG do not understand either that the increase in the savings to be generated by the employment pension schemes will make it possible to have greater resources in the national economy as a whole to invest, increase productive capacity and thereby create employment and raise the standard of living of the Spanish society. Thirdly, the interference of the State in the management of the money of the workers and self-employed is protected, since it will be public employees of the ministries who decide what is done and where the money of the public promotion plans is invested. Fourthly, it is a bill that discriminates against self-employed workers, who can only be deducted a maximum of €5750 per year between the employment pension plan and the individual plan, and, moreover, do not have the corporate share subsidies that companies do have. Fifthly, it is a bill that consolidates the discrimination of individual pension schemes, since contributions with right to deduction in the IRPF are maintained at 1500 euros. Sixthly, it consolidates discrimination against the outside territories, where the limit of the annual contribution to the individual social security system is 5000 euros, compared to 1500 euros from the rest of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, in VOX we are voting for mechanisms to supplement the public pension. In VOX we are voting for measures to improve the quality of life of pensioners. In VOX we vote yes to efficient public management. That is why, Mr Rego, we voted in favour of your proposal in VOX. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Saez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cabezón Casas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this week there is no Spaniard who has not submitted his particular amendment to this whole government. This weekend, more than four hundred thousand farmers, farmers and hunters - in short, the Spanish countryside - presented the first amendment to the totality of the policies of this government. The second amendment to the whole of this Government has been tabled by the transport sector, which is on strike, and it is no longer just the truckers, but the taxi drivers, the passenger transport, the cranes and many more are added to the stoppages because of the inaction in reducing fuel prices. The third amendment to the whole has been made to this government by the European leaders, after announcing a European tour to defend the proposal to lower energy prices. In the middle of the tour they have had to give up their star proposal to catch the price of energy. The fourth amendment to the whole of this government this week has also been made by the autonomous presidents with whom they have agreed a tax reduction, at Feijóo's proposal, by the way. And now Calviño refuses to lower taxes because he says that tax cuts are not effective. The fifth amendment to the Government as a whole was made yesterday at parliamentary level in the Foreign Affairs Committee. All the parliamentary groups in that Commission condemned Sánchez's change of position in the Sahara. The sixth amendment to the whole - it is in a lower voice, without making too much noise, it is not going to be that the subsidies will be reduced - yesterday Commissions and UGT made it in the fifty-eight demonstrations they made throughout Spain, demanding measures to lower prices in the face of their inaction, Minister. And I am concluding with the seventh amendment to the whole, which is being made here today by your left-wing partners, your investment partners, with this amendment to the whole of your pension system, but also to your social security policies. Seven days and seven amendments to the whole have been submitted by the Spanish to this Government. It is not bad at all, Minister; it is not bad at all as you are with your policies. Do you realize you're alone, Minister? Do you realize the social unrest that causes your inaction? Do you realize they're knocked out in the government? Do you remember the tic tac, tic tac? [[Applauds]] For that, when a government loses the street, the next thing it loses is the elections, Minister. As you can see, there are many reasons to amend not only this bill, but the entire policy of the Government, including that of Social Security. And, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has already demonstrated its responsibility in the Toledo Pact and our commitment to the pension system is more than demonstrated. Our commitment to the system led us to submit a full amendment to its first pension reform - the Sanchista reform - but our commitment to the system leads us to say no to this amendment of the Gallego Nationalist Block. No party with a minimum sense of state can support this amendment, which, among other things, drops a break in the single and equal system of social security. Mr Rego, I'm sorry to tell you that the Constitutional Court has already told you to stop dreaming. The single box is not going to break, no matter how much you and the nationalists commit. Well, that alone is reason enough to vote no to this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, our Social Security has three pillars, and it is the sum of the three that fully forms our system. Why is the effort of the left of this country to eliminate any option of freedom of choice? Why do you want to go where no one calls you, Minister? There is one pillar, the first, which is the full and exclusive obligation of the Executive, but the Government and its partners remain committed to tearing down the other two pillars and are obsessed with screwing it up that could work better. I came up to this rostrum on 29 December and warned you that the reform you presented weakened the sustainability of pensions, which attacked the future of young people and was contrary to what Spain needed, even contrary to what you said when you were president of the AIReF. And not a month has it taken the International Monetary Fund to tell them the same thing, to ensure the sustainability of the pension system. Today we have the debt of Social Security at absolutely record levels, spraying the 100 billion euros. And now what does the government do? They're going to cut, they're going to go easy, it's going to sound more and more like they're going to prune the promised rise in pensions, and I don't say it, several media are saying it. This starts smelling like 2011. Do you remember when Sanchez was voting for the pension freeze? Well, that's it. Now you are presenting this bill here without talking to anyone, without the support of social dialogue, of the sector, of industry, or of the self-employed, not even, as has been shown here today, of their governing partners. They bring us a project to regulate employment pension schemes without agreement. With what is falling, with how difficult it is to fill the shopping basket, with the very serious problems of society, you bring us here an initiative that seeks to save people. Do you think that with price increases someone can save in this country, Minister? [[Applauds]] This shows once again how far away is your agenda, the government's agenda, from the Spanish agenda, Minister. You want to improve the second pillar, with what we agree, but with what we cannot agree is that it is at the cost of destroying the third pillar. And we cannot share it because the text you are proposing presents a manifest lack of awareness of the purpose of complementary systems, it goes against the freedom of people who want to say how, how much and when to save, and it is an initiative that generates defencelessness for citizens and industry. In short, it is a great missed opportunity to set up the second pillar well. Ladies and gentlemen, my group voted in particular on Recommendation 16 of the Toledo Pact to strengthen the viability and capacity of complementary systems, and that is where we can find ourselves, in freedom, in the defence of savings, in the guarantee of sufficiency and in the guarantee of the sustainability of social security. In short, in the defense of the Spaniards and the pensioners. And it's over. This amendment goes in the opposite direction, more limits and less guarantees. Therefore, from the People's Group we cannot support it, it goes against my party's DNA. A partial amendment procedure is now being opened and that is where we will claim...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u31	Mr. Cabezón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u32	... what we have always defended: more and better social foresight, better second pillar, but also better third pillar. That is where the People's Party has always been and that is where we have reached agreements to improve the lives of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u33	Thank you, Mr. Cabezón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Valerio Cordero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u34	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to show our opposition to the amendment to the full refund presented by the Galego Nationalist Block to the draft law on the regulation of the impetus of employment pension schemes. I mean, I'm gonna step in for this. I have seen that Mr Cabezón Casas has had to have breakfast as a little collage and has come to set up a cocktail of supposed amendments to the whole. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You are in the opposition bank, so work to win the elections if you want and, above all, work for the good of Spain, which you are dedicated to boycotting in and out of this country all you can. I am already telling you, as it could not be otherwise, that my parliamentary group is going to vote against the amendment as a whole, because we believe that we should continue to develop the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, in this case recommendation 16. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u35	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u36	Also, in line with this recommendation, we have a commitment under component 30 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, as a result of the development of this recommendation. We also believe that the report prepared by the AIReF in 2019 has been taken into account in this project. As the Minister has already pointed out and was established in recommendation 16, the aim of this project is to provide stability to the current model of supplementary social security and to promote preferably the systems of collective bargaining for employment which form part of the so-called second pillar of the pension system, adding this recommendation, which must be provided with an adequate and differentiated tax and legal system, with the aim of encouraging them, since it is considered that this type of employment pension scheme will reach more workers, especially more young workers and also middle and low incomes, where, by the way, many women are located, effectively contributing to the reduction of the gender gap in pensions. This measure was already implemented in the State General Budgets Act for 2021 and also in 2022. Both have been a first step in the differentiation of the tax treatment of social employment forecasting instruments - second pillar - and individual forecasting instruments - third pillar -. We do not consider, as the amendment to the whole maintains, that this regulation is intended to replace public pensions, and much less can be considered a Trojan horse, as the BNG states, to promote discrimination between workers. On the contrary, this legislation aims to provide much less regressive treatment than currently in force and to democratise access to more beneficial pension schemes, with fewer commissions, more transparent, with more public control and not only for self-employed persons, both in the private and public sectors, but also for self-employed persons. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, please be calm that this government of progress and the two groups that support it are far from claiming any form of privatization or any lack of protection, because all this will be done without questioning the centrality of the public pension system, based on a financial system of distribution, as agreed in the Toledo Pact, as well as with scrupulous respect for the provisions of Articles 41 and 50 of the Spanish Constitution. In other words, they can be sure and confident that we will continue to strengthen the first pillar of the pension system, ensuring both its social sustainability with the guarantee of maintaining the purchasing power of pensions, and its financial sustainability. All this has been found in the Pension Reform Act adopted in December last year. By the way, Mr Cabezón Casas, a law that was an amendment to the entire return, once and for all, to the regressive reform of the People's Party of 2013, which was so socially unsustainable that you yourselves in the 2018 State General Budgets Act had to suspend its application, because it was unsustainable. [[applause]] This law ensures that, once and for all, we comply with the separation of sources. In three years, 2021, 2022 and 2023, the State Treasury will send the Treasury the necessary funds to deal with non-contributory benefits, i.e. so-called inappropriate expenses. By the way, works are love and not good reasons, in the year 2022 that transfer is 18,936 million euros. In addition, this standard also creates the intergenerational equity mechanism, which, by the way, is already developed and which will involve re-funding the one known as the pension fund. On the other hand, there is no violation of the principle of solidarity with this reform. Our system remains supportive as well as contributing; supportive, because there are minimum supplements to contributory pensions, non-contributory pensions, minimum living income and maximum pensions. But, of course, the amount of the final pension to a large extent must reflect the contribution career and the basis on which it has been paid, because if not, we will be discouraging the contribution and disregarding the effort that workers have made and are making throughout their working lives. We are in favour of further processing this law because the objective is right: to promote supplementary social security within the framework of collective bargaining, and also because it enables the creation of public promotion pension funds, as the Minister has explained. Frankly, we believe that this new regulation will enhance sectoral collective bargaining with an increase in the number of companies that invest in these employment plans, and that they will enjoy tax and social security incentives, as well as simplifying the procedures for creating these plans, which also have lower management costs than those of the third pillar. One of the very interesting developments is that in this new regulation of collective employment plans is committed to socially sustainable investments, including references to the achievement of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. It is also very important that, with the aim of giving security, transparency and trust to the participants and companies, there is provision for the creation of a digital platform, a promotional and follow-up commission representing various ministries and a monitoring commission where trade union and business organisations are also represented. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this project has already been improved by proposals made in the public hearing process in the Social Dialogue Bureau and also in the consultative bodies. It must be borne in mind that, after this procedure before us today, the draft can be improved by partial amendments...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u37	Mrs. Valerio, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u38	...to present parliamentary groups, both in Congress and in the Senate. We are doing structural reform and we are clear that in order for reform to take place in the future, we must ensure that it is done with the maximum social consensus and with the maximum political consensus. To do so, we await you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs Valerio.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u40	We turn to the agenda item on the proposal for the House Plenary's avocation of the deliberation and final vote of the bill amending Law 14/2011 of 1 June 2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation. This proposal shall be put to the vote, together with the other matters, at the end of this meeting. We'll vote in four minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. First, it takes into account proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress to amend the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October, approving the consolidated text of the Law on the Status of Workers and the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, approving the consolidated text of the Law on the Basic Status of the Public Employee, on the regulation of maternity and paternity leave, allowing its extension to 26 weeks in the case of single-parent families. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 325 plus 14 by-laws, 339; in favour, 323 plus 14 by-laws, 337; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u42	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDING ARTICLE 80 OF ORGANICAL LAW 1/1979 OF 26 SEPTEMBER, GENERAL PENITENTIAL, TO RECOGNIZE THE CHARACTER OF AGENTS OF THE AUTHORITY TO THE OFFICERS OF PENITENTIAL INSTITUTIONS [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 122/000075]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u43	Proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending article 80 of the Organic Law 1/1979 of 26 September, General Penitentiary, to recognize, for legal purposes, the status of agents of authority to officials of penal institutions. It's organic in nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 301 plus 14 telematics votes, 315; against, 24; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u44	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u45	No-law propositions. No bill of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the declaration as a place of democratic memory the exodus of refugees known as La Desbandá and the violence suffered by the civilian population on the road from Malaga to Almeria. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 189 plus 12 telematics votes, 201; against, 53; abstentions, 84 plus 2 telematics votes, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u46	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO THE REVERSION OF ENERGY POVERTY. [[File number 162/000758]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u47	No legislative proposal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the reversal of energy poverty. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 55; against, 180 plus 11 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 91 plus 3 telematics votes, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u48	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u49	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Plural Parliamentary Group on the taxation of scholarships for orphans of the Germanwings accident, flight GWI 9525 Barcelona-Düsseldorf. [[Mrs. Nogueras i Camero]] It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u50	Consequently, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry is unanimously adopted. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES PROVIDED FOR [[EAJ-PNV]] ADOPTION OF THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM IN THE CHALLENGE OF THE PRESISTENT ENERGY CRISIS AND PRIMARY SUBSTANCES BY THE INVASION OF URANIA. [[File number 173/000134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u51	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the measures envisaged by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism in the face of the resurgence of the pre-existing energy crisis and raw materials caused by the invasion of Ukraine. [[EAJ-PNV]] Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 325 plus 14 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 86; against, 119 plus 6 telematics votes, 125; abstentions, 120 plus 8 telematics votes, 128.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u52	Point No 1 is therefore rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 325 plus 14 telematics votes, 339; 155 plus 6 telematics votes, 161; abstentions, 170 plus 8 telematics votes, 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u53	Paragraph 2 was therefore adopted. Looks like some seat has voting problems, so let's go over it. [[Pause]] We're going to keep going, even though we're not sure it's going to work. We now proceed to vote on paragraph 3 of the motion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes, plus 14 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 74 plus 4 telematics votes, 78; against, 54; abstentions, 196 plus 10 telematics votes, 206.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u54	Item 3 was therefore adopted. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 51 plus 1 telematics vote, 52; against, 139 plus 11 telematics votes, 150; abstentions, 136 plus 2 telematics votes, 138.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u55	Consequently, point 4 is rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 51 plus 1 telematics vote, 52; against, 140 plus 11 telematics votes, 151; abstentions, 135 plus 2 telematics votes, 137.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u56	Point No 5 is therefore rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 323 plus 14 telematics votes, 337; against, 1; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u57	Point 6 was therefore adopted. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 14 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 41; against, 221 plus 13 telematics votes, 234; abstentions, 64 plus 1 telematics vote, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u58	Point No 7 is therefore rejected. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 14 by telematics, 341; 273 votes in favour, 14 by telematics, 287; abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u59	Point 8 was therefore adopted. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 327 plus 14 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 327 plus 14 telematics votes, 341.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u60	Point 9 was therefore adopted. Point 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 327 plus 14 telematics votes, 341; 163 plus 6 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 164 plus 8 telematics votes, 172.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u61	Point 10 was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u62	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the full refund to the Draft Law on Regulation for the Promotion of Employment Pension Plans, amending the consolidated text of the Law on the Regulation of Pension Plans and Funds, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2002 of 29 November, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 327 votes, plus 14 by telephone, 341; 25 in favour, against 302, plus 14 by telephone, 316.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u63	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u64	Voting of the request for the House plenary to approve the deliberation and final vote of the Draft Law on Regulation for the Promotion of Employment Pension Plans amending the consolidated text of the Law on the Regulation of Pension Plans and Funds, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2002 of 29 November, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 335 votes in favour, 321 votes in favour, 335 votes in favour, 321 votes in favour, 335 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u65	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u66	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting of requests for avocados by the plenary of the Chamber of deliberation and final vote on the draft law amending Law 14/2011 of 1 June 2011 on Science, Technology and Innovation, submitted by the Plural and Popular Parliamentary Groups at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 plus 14 telematics votes, 333; in favour, 319 plus 14 telematics votes, 333.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-03-24-CD220324.u67	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary. Thank you all so much, have a good afternoon. The meeting rose. It was 11 o'clock in the morning.
