ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group In Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u2	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, last week we met the EPA, and the unemployment went up again. The Spanish economy grew only in the third quarter 2 tenths, less than Italy and Germany, which speak openly of the risk of recession. The smoke of his propaganda does not pay either the purchase tickets or the invoices; all this with mortgages that have risen an average of 200 euros per month. Do you think your policies create opportunities for the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I think so. I believe that this is a government that is developing, despite the difficulties of the context and also, logically, its opposition, an economic response plan to the consequences of war based on two pillars; firstly, on the protection of the social majority of our country and, secondly, on a reform plan to allow our economy to be much more competitive on the nearest horizon. And there's the data, Your Honor. Today we have 20.5 million social security affiliates, some data we had before the financial crisis. This year, the Spanish economy is going to grow above 4%, well above the European average. And last week's inflation data attest to us is the validity and effectiveness of the measures being implemented by the Spanish Government. We have the lowest inflation in Europe, just ahead of France, and we have a positive inflation differential for Spain compared to the EU average that we did not have since there was an official accounting of that harmonised benchmark of 3.5 points. With this, Your Honor, despite the difficulties and its negationist opposition, this government is advancing and protecting the social majority of the country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u6	Look, Mr. Sánchez, the data is there: that stop going up, the bills that the Spaniards can't pay and some mortgages that are starting to be unsustainable. His Government was dedicated to creating opportunities only for itself, not for the people; opportunities for the Spaniards not, but for their partners absolutely all, and they took advantage of them in the face of their weakness. You need them and you and they know it. His pacts with the independenceists disqualify him from seeking the general interest today. He has too many mortgages with all those who despise what is coexistence among all. Look, Mr Sánchez, always - always - that you have had the opportunity to choose has preferred populism, radicalism and independence rather than the general interest, the sense of state and moderation. By the way, who is that new equestrian lord of the Socialist Party who went to see Puigdemont? Who has gone to negotiate the Penal Code to the extent of the coup leaders? Who has offered that the laws in Spain be drafted at the headquarters of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya? Because whoever did it did it on his orders, but not on behalf of the Spaniards, that we heard his promise to criminalize the crime of illegal referendum and bring Puigdemont to justice; it is a country that now sees, again, that you have no word. Mr Sánchez, today you have the opportunity to renounce, here and now, the modification of the sedition crime to lower the penalties. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u8	I know it's impossible, because for you it's all worth it. But in the People's Party we move out of general interest. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Mr Feijóo has a word, political principles and conscience. You don't, and that's the difference. [[Applause.-Various ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you are handing out cards of Spanishness and constitutionalism and it turns out that when you were in the government it was when Spain was close to being able to break up, and now you have been in the opposition for four years, jumping, precisely, your commitment and your obligation to comply with the Constitution. I understand it's difficult, because you have no arguments. Your Honor, you started this new stage with Mr. Feijoo proposing a general tax reduction, and we saw the departure of British Prime Minister Liz Truss. They disqualified the Iberian solution as an Iberian thyme, and we have seen it applauded by the President of the European Commission. You voted against free public transport, and there are two million people who are using that free public transport. You opposed the big energy tax, and today there are international bodies of all colors that are doing what you are doing is proposing a big energy tax. Your Honor, you have no arguments and the only thing you are disqualifying is. You say that there is a legitimate government only when it is of the People's Party; that the Constitution is complied with, when it is at its convenience, and that a good Spanish if it is of the People's Party. Enough already and comply with the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause]] - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EUROPEAN FUNDS MAKE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001068]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u11	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, from the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u12	Good morning, Mr. President. What assessment does it make of the effective implementation of European funds?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u13	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. When we started designing the European funds together with the European Commission, we said that this was a new instrument, a different instrument, based on rules completely different from the cohesion funds and the structural funds, and that this was going to be a challenge for all administrations; of course, for the general government of the State, but also for local and territorial public administrations. But in any case, Your Honor, there's the data. We are the most advanced country in the 27 Member States and the only country that has already received the second disbursement. We are talking about more than EUR 30 billion, which accounts for 45% of our transfers by 2026. The data are there, especially in a context of economic slowdown which is helping to curb this slowdown and thus economic growth. We have more than 20.5 million social security affiliates. We have growth for this year above 4%, almost 2 points of them have to do, logically, with the implementation and deployment of European funds. And, of course, we are fulfilling and implementing the milestones and objectives set out in the recovery plan. Finally, I have to acknowledge, of course, the role played by the Basque Government. I would also like to thank you for the handling of the general state budgets, because, of course, this is the most important instrument for the deployment of European funds for next year. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u15	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u16	Mr President, I ask you about the implementation, not the milestones - the truth is that this is a question that is often asked in this Chamber, and that should lead us to think that something is not being done well, because, if not, there would be not so much question - a reflection beyond self-congratulation, which I understand in the sense that these funds are important. But, let us see, these budgets base their growth on the implementation of these European funds. If they are not executed correctly, there will be no such growth, it will not be effective and will not equal income and expenses. In fact, the real investment of budgets is out of them, it's in the funds. However, its own data indicate that only 45.6% of the committed has been recognised this year, which does not even mean that it is executed. Resources do not arrive or arrive slowly. Of the eleven projects, only five calls made. The one about the car is to reflect, because it was a little bit the star in the firmament of the government plan: awarded in a minimum percentages, and surely a new call has to be made. The companies of these great projects that were announced are talking about their possible renunciation. There are obvious design errors, and they're not just in that LOST. They often generate too much rigidity and prevent the development and more effective implementation of these funds, sometimes they are prevented in their entirety and sometimes, even ignore and marginalize part of the population. As for the competition you have drawn for the call for the safety and conservation of high-capacity roads, it is only for the roads of the State, which has left you marginalized more than two and a half million citizens, who are apparently not European, because in Basquedi there are no roads of the State, they are all from the autonomous community, and the aid has been denied. That doesn't make any sense. I want to understand it as a mistake, not as if it has deliberately been sought out like this. Ministries don't decide, Economy doesn't decide, it's not agile enough. There's a slowness and a certain chaos. Mr. President, there's a feeling there's a plan missing. No one has a picture of this situation. Put the batteries on before the European Semester arrives.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u17	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u18	Thank you, Madam President. It is not self-congratulation, we are talking about a new instrument that the Spanish Government together with the European Commission and the rest of the Member States have been designing quickly and running in a context, first of all, of pandemic and, now, of deceleration, as a result of the war. But we are the first country, Your Honor, Spain is the first country, which has already received the second disbursement, 45% of the transfers that correspond to Spain by the year 2026. You talk about strategic projects. Indeed, there are eleven, 31 billion euros of public funds, with already resolved calls, 25 billion, which will obviously allow us to modernise our productive sectors, such as, for example, that of the electric vehicle. In the case of the connected electric vehicle, for example, Your Honor, four tractor projects led by companies established in Euskadi, with more than 235 million euros of aid, which will ensure the transformation of the productive model, have been granted and in 2021 and 2022 19 billion euros have been distributed through 116 sectoral conferences, through direct agreements and concessions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. - of Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus, of the parliamentary group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, which expresses to the Lord President of the Government: will she comply with the commitments made in the field of rights? [[File number 180/001070]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u20	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u21	Mr Sánchez, your Government still has many promises to fulfil in the area of rights and freedoms. There has been progress, which the plurinational majority of the left have supported and approved, such as euthanasia, minimum living income or the SMI, progress that we value, but there is only one year left of the legislature and this Government has pending subjects regarding strategic laws for the rights and freedoms of the social majority, housing law, gag law, tax reform, mental health, trans law or official secrets, all laws necessary and urgent for the achievement of rights and freedoms. That is why I ask you, not to respond to me, but because you must give a sincere response to the citizenry, if you will fulfil in time and form your Government's outstanding promises of rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u22	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I believe the government has complied, Your Honor. It is now up to the parliamentary groups. The housing law is in parliamentary procedure, the LGTBI law is in parliamentary procedure, the law on citizen security is in parliamentary procedure. In short, Your Honor, I believe that it is now up to the parliamentary groups to process all these laws. In any case, Your Honor, we are a government that is advancing in rights and freedoms, and we are going to comply with our legislative agenda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u24	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u25	He says that he will comply with the legislative agenda, but the facts disdain him, because today they refuse to move forward and pass all these laws. The housing law, which must regulate rents and prevent evictions for those who have no alternative, is blocked. The same is true of the law on citizen security, which ends with the law on flogging and the reduction of fundamental freedoms and rights, as it is also stuck. Two of the most expected laws, widely demanded by Basque citizenship and the popular classes of this state, do not end up becoming reality. The truth is, there's not much time left. The time has come for you to decide whether or not you want to pass these laws in the terms you promised. These are two basic issues for a so-called progressive Government. Failure to do so would mortgage the future of millions of people, and perhaps his and his Government's, too, because not doing so, not keeping promises and not gaining rights, only benefits the right. For months we have been told that we could not make many decisions that we asked of him, and in the end they have ended up making: taxes on the rich, the electrics or the benches; catching the light. Nothing was possible until it was. We now ask you to assume the urgent need to already pass the housing law and put an end to the law of gloom. Mr Sánchez, commit yourself here today to unlocking and realizing these new social laws. He's got enough majorities to do it. It's a matter of political will. Do it, and don't doubt you'll find us willing to work on it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u26	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u27	Thank you, Madam President, I understand that you can see the glass half full or half empty, but to tell this Government that it does not comply with its road map of rights and freedoms seems to me to be a criticism that does not correspond to reality. This is the Government which has passed the law on euthanasia. This is the Government that has reversed the cuts in the national dependency system. This is the government that has approved with economic resources the first mental health plan - by the way, you mentioned it - renewed since the early 2000s. This is the Government, Your Honor, which has brought to the Courts a housing law, a LGTBI law and also an amendment to the law on citizen security. You will say that we have to comply with our commitment, but we are fulfilling. Different question, Your Honor, is that we may not coincide with the approach you have to citizen security. We will therefore have to strike a balance with the parliamentary majority in this House in order to achieve that progress, Your Honor. But we, with regard to the housing law, the LGTB law and the amendment of the law on citizen security, will comply with our commitment, which is to make laws for the benefit of the social majority of this country. That's how it's going to be, Your Honor. Therefore, perhaps it is not that we are blocking them, but that we do not find a meeting point with the rest of the parliamentary groups. That does not mean that we are less left-wing than you are, but that we are defending the majority, at least apparently, in this case the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because we are not speaking on behalf of the Government. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: ARE YOUR PROVISIONS RELIABLE? [[File number 180/001076]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u28	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice President, were you in charge of negotiating in Waterloo with a fugitive from justice? If it wasn't you, do you know who the government was? Your Honor, we have a cheating government, a lying government. The Spanish have a serious problem with their Government. It is a government that leads us to the tail of the unemployment of the whole of the European Union, the last of the recovery, a government that is based on discontrol. Why are we the last in Europe after five years of socialist government, ladies and gentlemen? For his government, for its mismanagement, for its miscontrol. Chaos, says the PNV, with the European funds, so of course yes, sir, because where are the European funds? A PERTE Plus is now invented. What's to be invented tomorrow? And in the meantime, more pictures. There will be no propaganda that hides your ineffectiveness, Your Honor, there will be no government propaganda that covers what you are doing with our country, ladies and gentlemen. Where are the European funds? Of course, so much to decide from Moncloa and so much not to have the autonomous communities, when a great pact of state is needed to fight the crisis, and so much to do what gives them the will with our country that, in the end, it turns out that the maximum responsible for the European funds is already outside the government, Your Honor. Can you explain what's going on, Your Honor? Can you explain your predictions? Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: All right!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u30	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u31	Thank you, President. The truth is that the question he had asked was whether the Government's forecasts were reliable. The answer is that we are at a time of very high uncertainty and that this makes the economic forecasts have a huge volatility. We see organisms changing them almost daily. Therefore, in these circumstances, it is more important than ever to take the pulse of the economic situation on a daily basis and act with prudence and responsibility. This is what the government does. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have such a negative and destructive view of reality that you even want to pass through negative news that can be considered as the most positive news we could have at this time. Mrs Gamarra has pointed out, as if it were negative, that Germany and Italy, two of the countries most affected by the war and the cutting of Putin's gas, have grown in the third quarter of this year. Well, Your Honor, it is good news for Europe and it is good news for Spain, as it is that, after three quarters of extraordinary growth, Spain has recorded a growth of 3.8%, that we are the first country to implement European funds, that we have transferred almost 19 billion euros to the autonomous communities, that we have more than 20 and a half million members and employees in the labour market, more than 23 million people active in the labour market and, ultimately, that this is a government that has the confidence of the markets and our international partners. Here, Your Honor, the only thing that is not reliable is the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u32	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u33	Madam Vice-President, with all due respect to the world, your predictions fail over and over again. We've made the list of hits from your predictions and this is the result, a blank sheet. [[shows a blank sheet]] [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Your Honor, you haven't given one. The reality, Your Honor, is that Spain is going through a serious crisis that you do not want to recognize. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u35	The reality is that unemployment is rising, ladies and gentlemen. The reality is that growth has stagnated and we are still 2 points below the pre-COVID era. And the reality is that 110,000 young self-employed people have been lost in the last five years in our country, because spending is rising, in a single quarter, by 24% this year. Your Honor, that's the reality. Rule seriously what's left of them, ladies and gentlemen. No one believes them. You said that the COVID was something merely punctual, that would have no impact on the crisis. You said inflation wasn't a problem. Who's gonna believe them? Government at once. All institutions have discredited their public accounts, but you hold on, hold on to an impossible government, a government that has to give divestitures to separatists. Did you want the pardon? They gave it to him. They wanted the sedition reform? They're gonna give it to them. All for keeping in power. Your Honor, that is not a government, that is not the government that Spain needs. They rule at once with seriousness. Work for the Spaniards. Do you know what your real predictions are? Keeping in power at any cost, and that's not worth... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u36	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u37	Thank you. Your Honor, you start talking about other issues because you find it difficult to find arguments to criticize the government's economic policy, and I understand that, since last week up to inflation has fallen in Spain by around 7%, we are the second one down - here we are very close to the end - in terms of inflation levels in the euro area. [[applause]] In other words, the government's economic policy is allowing us, in a tremendously complex context, to have sustained economic growth, to continue to create jobs, to continue to reduce inflation and, more importantly, to make a fair distribution of the costs of war, even if it weighs heavily on them. A final reflection. Stop handing out good Spanish cards, comply with the Constitution and, above all, defend the interests of Spain and the Spanish within and outside our borders; defend Spain in Europe, which I believe is the least we can ask of an opposition. This is the time to have a reliable, responsible opposition that supports the measures that Spain needs. I hope, at some point, that you will change your attitude and begin to meet that minimumrum that can be asked of the opposition. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT GROWTH OF THE SPANISH ECONOMY For the last quarter of 2022? [[File number 180/001073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u38	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u39	Thank you, Madam President. From the producers of 'no one sees a crisis in the short term', from the creator of 'the recovery will be in the form of 'V', from the screenwriter of the saga 'there is no precedent in the economic history of Spain for such a rapid recovery of employment activity' and from the creator of 'it is a transitional phenomenon, it would be premature to consider inflation as a problem' this autumn we get 'economic indicators do not point to a recession'. This initiality is now presented to us by you, against the forecasts of the independent authorities of the main analysis houses: the AIReF, Funcas, BBVA Research. Everyone is already talking about falling GDP in that quarter and they have no doubt that we will also fall in the next quarter. That, Your Honor, two consecutive quarters of fall, is called recession. Madam Minister, as you know, the evolution of the economy is greatly influenced by the expectations of economic operators and, therefore, the credibility of the government's forecasts is absolutely essential. Unfortunately, you don't get one. That is why I ask you today, November 2, 2022, what growth of the Spanish economy is forecast for this last quarter of the year and for the first of the following year. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u41	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, it happens to you like the People's Party, it seems to bother you that we have good news or that there is good data. The truth is that it is very good news that the Spanish economy is resisting well in such a complex situation and that the European economy continues to grow in a context after the shutdown of Putin's gas. The truth is that the Government's forecasts are always prudent, that we act with prudence and responsibility, especially in such a volatile and complex context. And the fact is that the growth forecast for this year of 4.4% is very likely to have been short, in light of the data we have seen from the third quarter. We are in a context of slowing down and, in this context, what needs to be done? So make the right decisions and try to avoid the most negative scenarios. In that, Your Honor, is our government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u42	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u43	Your Honor, I see you a little aggressive, but you are not able to answer a very simple, very technical question. [[Rumors]] I've asked you what forecast you have for this last quarter and the coming one, and you've answered me a completely different thing. I wasn't asking about the growth forecast this year. What I do say is that Spain has not yet recovered the GDP of 2019. I don't know if it's any good for you. What I'm telling you is that the third quarter has slowed down in the dry. What I do say is that the dreaded fall of exports is a reality. What I'm telling you is that it's still slowing down consumption. What I am saying is that we still have the highest unemployment rate in Europe. Every time you talk about job creation, don't forget that two out of three jobs have been created by you in the public administration. By means of this system we could end the unemployment tomorrow morning. You hire four million civil servants, and we're done. [[Applauds]] And do not forget, Your Honor, that inflation remains at very high levels. Do not trust that it is 7%, because that means that the Spanish are 7% poorer than a year ago. It's not a figure to be happy with. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not going to go into history, of course into the economic history of Spain, for nothing good. They will not even pass into history because they are the government that gave entry to the extreme left and to all the enemies of the nation. You will pass into history because you are the government that brought the stagnation to Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u44	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u45	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I believe that the data is very clear about the fact that this exit from the crisis has nothing to do with those of the past. In the face of the ten years that it took us to recover GDP after the financial crisis, twelve years to recover employment levels, we currently have more than 20.5 million people employed in our country; there are more than 23.5 million people who are actively looking for work in our country; we have historical minimums of temporaryity rate, historical minimums of unemployment rate, historical minimums of youth unemployment rate. But if the data is clear in this sense, of course we are in a complex international environment! Of course the forecasts point to a slowdown in growth in the coming quarters! But do you not think it is important and positive that last year's economic growth has been 5.5% and that this year's government forecast of 4.4% is short, in the light of the data we have seen from the third quarter? And that is what all economic organizations see, that is what all international investors see, who, week after week, reaffirm their confidence and support for the Spanish economy and the Government of Spain, which has been carrying out a responsible economic policy since 2018, based on fiscal responsibility, social justice and progressive structural reforms, looking to the future for the Spanish population as a whole. It is those reforms, Your Honor, which you have consistently voted against. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, the reality is clumsy and as much as you and the People's Party always strive to have an absolutely destructive vision of our country, I trust in Spain, I trust the Spanish, I work for the Spanish, and that, Your Honor, is defending the homeland. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IGNIGO ERJÓN GALVAN, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF ALGORITMS, SOCIAL NETWORKS AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN CONTEMPORARY DIGITAL SOCIETY? [[File number 180/001066]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u46	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, how does the Government assess the impact of social networks and their algorithms on society and, in particular, on the younger ones?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u48	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u49	President, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Errejón, for you are asking about an issue that is truly very important for our present and, above all, for our future. It is a matter of concern to families, of concern to all those who - as happens in my case - have young children, who are very exposed to the challenges and changes arising from social networks. And it is that the new technologies, artificial intelligence, all the accelerated, exponential deployment of digitalisation bring great opportunities for the future, but it also brings challenges to which we have to face and address with determination to ensure that this digital future responds and protects our rights, our democratic values, which responds and defends everything we value in the present and in the future. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u50	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, it is clear that the networks are going through all our lives and I want to devote myself exclusively to a particular issue. In Spain we are going through a pandemic of eating disorders, which affects especially adolescents and especially adolescents, in nine out of ten cases. We are talking about boys who are an average of twelve and a half years old and who are subjected to brutal pressure, which leads to body dysmorphia, anus to recognize themselves in their bodies until they come to hate him, which leads them to have to lock themselves in the bathroom to throw up in hiding, or which leads them to stop eating, even endangering their own lives. The times we have brought this matter to light have been times when there have been those who have said that this is a minor matter. I think the person who says it is someone who has never gone through a high school class and is someone who does not know that in Spain we are talking about 400,000 teenagers and their families who suffer from this suffering. It is clear that this problem does not have a single cause and has very different causes, but no one can deny that social networks and algorithms play a fundamental role, because they are one of the main spaces of socialization of the younger, and they are a space in which they are constantly bombarded with images of unreal and unattainable bodies, without warning them that they are. What I'm saying was recognized by Facebook and Instagram companies in a report that was leaked last year in the Wall Street Journal, where they confessed that their networks could be toxic to teenagers, literally admitting: 'We worsen the body image problems of one in three teens, leading even some to desire suicide'. The company recognized him, but he didn't do anything. That is why, Madam Vice-President, the State cannot go along with this law. There are already many teenagers who spend more time on Instagram than on the streets of their city, but the problem is that Instagram is a lawless city. But that doesn't mean they're freer there, that means they're more unprotected and more defenseless in front of algorithms designed by giant companies to hook up and spend more hours hooked on the screen, even though they know that it can hit their health. That is why we want to urge the Government to make three changes, three very simple measures: firstly, to set up the algorithm monitoring agency; secondly, to create the national observatory for eating disorders; and thirdly, to legislate, as Norway has already done, so that when advertising sells manipulated bodies, adolescents have the right to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u52	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u53	Thank you, President. Mr Errejón, I fully share your view that this is not a minor issue or an irrelevant issue, I think it is an important issue, as I said, for the present and for the future; an issue that is very close to families who have children in those most vulnerable ages. But it is not true that nothing is being done or that this is a lawless city. Firstly, the European Union has approved the digital rights record. The digital service record has just been adopted, it has just been published, and what we are going to do is to transpose into our order that set of rules that strengthen protection, for example, with services of trust certification, services and codes of good practice and responsibility of the major platforms that allow us to ensure what happens - as you said - that information is faithful, that manipulation is also avoided and that the use of such tools for misinformation campaigns is avoided. Secondly, we have launched the creation of the Spanish agency. As you know, we have launched the procedure to determine headquarters and we will continue to act with the utmost speed and speed to have as soon as possible tools that allow us to have good monitoring of algorithms. Thirdly, we have adopted a Charter of Digital Rights, which is the first at European level and is inspiring action at European and global level. I would be delighted if we could organize a debate on the Digital Rights Charter in this House, because Parliament has a very important role to play in ensuring that all these democratic rights and values permeate the new digital reality and permeate all the regulatory projects that may come to this House in the future. In this regard, we have also launched a chair on Digital Rights, Digitalization and Democracy. We will continue to act to ensure, as I said to you, that this developing future has all the values and protects the interests of the younger children who are our children. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALDE EDMUND, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO YOU THINK THE ECONOMIC ROUND OF YOUR GOVERNMENT IS THE RIGHT ONE TO GUARANTEE THE FUTURE OF THE COUNTRY? [[File number 180/001069]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u54	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u55	Mrs Calviño, do you consider that the economic direction of the Government assures the future of our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u56	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u57	Thank you, President. The answer is yes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u58	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u59	I thought he was going to tell me that his budgets were going to guarantee that future of our country, because the paper endures everything, but I begin to have doubts that Spain will endure everything. Let's talk about the future starting with the present. You spend more than half of the budget on pensions and debt financing. In four years they have increased the expenditure on pensions by 40 billion, 40 billion is the budget of Andalusia and is more than that of Madrid, Catalonia or the Valencian Community. Do you know in 2050 which country in Europe will spend the most? Spain. I'll give you a date: January 1, 2035. If the system is not changed, 100 per cent of Spanish workers' taxes will finance pensions; we will not be able to spend on health, education, dependency or justice. And you, faced with this problem, continue to put your head under the ground. Sean, please, responsible adults. We already know how long the system is sustained; we do not know how long you will continue to blow up the system, how long you will continue to mortgage the future of young people and middle classes. You are at ease because on this journey the People's Party accompanies you. Do you really want a pensioner who pays 40,000 euros a year to see his pension increased by 3000 euros this year? But if they don't want it either, if most of them prefer to invest in employment and education for their children and grandchildren... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u61	...have a decent job, can have independence, can form your family. We're offering them solutions, but if they don't like them, they'll take the Portuguese Social Democrats. They have indeed established an income pact with civil servants and pensioners; they have deflated the IRPF rate; they have revalued pensions, but have not indexed them to inflation. And I know - I know - that these are difficult decisions, but the harder it will be in 2035 to think if we invest in education or pensions. It will be the cowardice of bipartisanship, it will be the fault of its short-term electoralism. They will condemn a nation, so as to save Junqueras by means of a customised Penal Code. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u62	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u63	Thank you very much, President. Mr Bal, our government's economic policy since 2018 has followed three principles: fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms looking to the future. This policy has enabled us to respond to the urgency without losing sight of the important thing, which is why we have had a strong economic recovery, that we have more than 20.5 million occupied in our country, that we are at a minimum historical rate of unemployment, that the number of households in which all people are unemployed is also reduced to a minimum and that the number of households in which all people are occupied has increased by more than one million, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is important for Spanish families. This policy has enabled us to reduce the deficit and debt in a GDP ratio by 2021, to start absorbing the extra cost of responding to the pandemic and thus to meet our fiscal responsibility objectives; a fulfillment that is also recognized, supported, appreciated and explains the confidence of international markets, international institutions and our partners in the rest of the world. But, Mr. Bal, you have an obsession with pensions and I really don't understand. The weight of pension spending in our country is around 11% of GDP, significantly below the level of the rest of the European Union. In addition, next year in the draft budgets we will be able, for the first time, to replenish the pension fund that had been emptied by the People's Party; moreover, the transfer of the State to Social Security this year is half that in previous years and, moreover, the number of members of Social Security and the occupied, which is essential for the long-term sustainability of the pension system, has increased. [[applause]] I do not understand why you want to generate fear and even less understand that you want to generate intergenerational confrontations, because from this situation you come out together: the young; the people we have at this time the responsibility of the Government in our country, our generation, and also the elderly, who are the ones who suffered the most during the pandemic and those who truly deserve at this time that we give them peace and support. And, thirdly, Mr. Bal, you're very emphatic, but you're always wrong. You must be the only person in the whole world who still thinks that lowering taxes goes up the collection. But if this economic policy has been taken before the British Government, if even the People's Party is moving away from this idea. [[Applauds]] Mr Bal, let's see if you start to understand that lowering taxes does not increase collection and that lowering taxes to big fortunes only makes the richest. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: HOW MANY GENERATIONS CONTemplATE IN HER NEW SYSTEM OF SHORTNESS? [[File number 180/001074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u65	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u66	Thank you, President. Minister, your labor reform reminds me of those imported parties that are far from our traditions. You know why? Because it's brought over three million undefined ghost contracts. Six out of ten indefinite contracts do not generate stable employment and one out of three are fixed discontinuous. According to his data, his Government's, until September 2022, the membership of workers with indefinite contracts amounted to just over two million workers, but for that reason 5.2 million contracts had to be signed, so more than three million contracts had disappeared and had disappeared without creating stable employment. Therefore, a cosmetic labor reform in terms of temporality and unable to conceal reality, since the average duration of indefinite contracts has collapsed by 20% and is already down by 50 days. But you are not satisfied with this, you are lighting up an absurd and discriminatory new plan: dosing off redundancies with a gender perspective. This will apply to us - I imagine - with the same mastery as the ERTE, but you are, instead of helping you Mr Escriva, precisely, asking for help from the Minister of Equality, who has not yet condemned the murder of a girl, from Olivia, allegedly at the hands of her mother. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Therefore, tell us how many genres you envisage for these novel redundancies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u67	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government, Your Honor,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u68	Although his question pretends to be of the comic genre, it is actually a true farce. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u69	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u70	You, as always, in the absurd genre, without answering what you asked. Well, look, if in Spain we have unemployment rates that double those of the European Union, for example being higher in women and over forty-five years old, it turns out that their most enthusiastic idea would have a negative effect for companies to hire these people - women, for example - because they will find it more expensive to fire them. It is exactly the same plan that you have devised for people with disabilities, who have eliminated or plan to eliminate incentives for their recruitment, thus creating barriers to their entry into the labour market. Do you understand this or do I explain it to you in Latin, how is Augusta Emérita's recent arrival? Therefore, with these discriminatory proposals, we already see how you understand equality, violating fundamental rights, which is the guiding principle of your Government's policies. Madam Minister, you, instead of adding up, reduce employment opportunities and, instead of a public office, have become a very heavy burden on the pocket of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u71	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u72	Your Honor, I tell you again that your style is more and more debugged every day. You portray yourself. But, look, I'm gonna tell him about the farce and I'm gonna tell him about the layoff. When we arrived at the Government we repealed article 52 (d), which allowed for dismissal when working people were sick, because they violated fundamental rights. Do you know what you did? Vote against. When we suffered the world's largest pandemic in history with the COVID-19, we were forbidden to say goodbye. Do you know what you did? Vote against. And today, Your Honor, when we experienced the war of your ally Putin in Ukraine, we banned firing and you voted against it. [[rumors]] And you know why, Your Honor? Because in reality, what you defend is, simply, free and free dismissal. I'm going to talk to you about facts and I'm going to talk to you literally about that hidden program that you've kept in a drawer and that you're ashamed of, exactly the layoff proposal that is contemplated on your page 56. If you were, today, in Spain, you would do two things: one, even more - even more - reducing dismissal in Spain, and two - look, barbarity - depriving, stealing from Spanish courts the ability to control the causes behind dismissals. This is very serious, this is the law of the jungle, which is actually what you defend. Your Honor, the problem you have is that you don't really like workers' rights, you don't like collective bargaining, you don't like the right to strike. You guys are so much more than that vertical union. Do you remember, Your Honor? [[Applauds]] Yes, from the Vertical Union. What happens to you is that you literally resent public pensions, you annoy the minimum wage, you annoy the ERTEs, and, as we have just heard from your lordship, you disturb women's rights, and you even disturb trans people's rights. But, look, Your Honor, it is your country that really bothers you, but fortunately, despite you, Spain is a proudly diverse and plural country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MRS MARGARITA PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE NEW COST REGULATION? [[File number 180/001077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u73	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice President, were you in charge of going to Waterloo on behalf of Mr Sánchez? The Government of Spain approved in 2013 an amendment to the Costas Act and in 2014 its regulation. Aware of the challenge of climate change for our coastline, it sought the balance between coastal protection and human activity, its economic activity and private ownership. However, last August, with the amendment of the coastal regulation, you have endeavoured to burst this complex and worked out balance, leaving thousands of people affected throughout the coast: from Galicia to the cantabrian coast; to the whole Mediterranean coast: Castellón, Valencia, Alicante, Murcia, Almería; or to the two archipelagos, the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands. There are thousands of families affected by their delimitation of the public domain and their delinquency, who are arbitrarily threatened by their properties, homes and businesses, their livelihoods. Platforms of affected people in various communities, the Xunta de Galicia, the Consell de Ibiza or the Consell de Formentera, at the request of this group and of Sa Unió, where you govern, have unanimously approved to resort to their General Coastal Regulations. Minister, are you going to listen to all these voices, even from your party, and are you going to rectify? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u75	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u76	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I don't know where you get the information. There is no new cost regulation. There are amendments that seek to resolve the answer that the Government must give to two very important questions: the first, the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 233/2015, where it unconstitutionally destroyed the Costas Act approved by Mr Cañete, and the second, the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 90/2022, where the Constitutional Court categorically rejected the allegations of unconstitutionality in relation to the climate change law submitted precisely by the Xunta de Galicia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u77	Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u78	Madam Minister, it is noteworthy that your Government, which fills its mouth by speaking of plural Spain, is unable to have the slightest empathy with the realities of our coastline. From your office, inside the M-30, you, as if it were the worst of the blizzards, have decided to take forward front-line housing, chiringuitos, restaurants with decades of history or roots, or even urban centers of the island of Formentera. Because this is not going to protect the environment, this is going to be his obsession; his obsession with attacking everything, his obsession with banning everything, doing everything incompatible, introducing arbitrary criteria in this amendment of the regulation. But your obsession puts you at risk everything: legal certainty, private property, but also the environment to which you claim to protect, because it is these families and businesses to which you attack those who have been protecting this environment for decades. Minister, get out of your office, look for the sea, and if you find it, listen to these people who know the coast much more than you do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u79	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u80	You confirm once again the characteristics that have been common in the People's Party lately: absolute contempt or selective interpretation of the Constitution and bad memory. As I said, what the Constitutional Court has considered to be arbitrary and contrary to the Constitution is Mr Cañete's Coasts Act, and what the Constitutional Court has considered to be legally safe and compatible with the Constitution is the law of climate change with regard to the protection of the coasts, which is precisely what this amendment of the regulation makes clear: concessions that guarantee that there can be no prohibited uses in the maritime-terrestrial public domain and no elements that have been applied retroactively, which is why they do nothing but make noise, because although they are committed there has been absolutely no one who has been finished, as you say, their concession when it is compatible with the law. There is absolute clarity about the need to invest in security, because we play a lot in it, in people's security, in infrastructure security, in our country's economic security, threatened by climate change. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE JORDI SAVER'S DEVELOPED I DUCH, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS CONTAINED IN REPORT No. 1381 OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS DIRECTED TO THEIR DEPARTMENT? [[File number 180/001071]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u81	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Jordi Salvador i Duch of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u82	Good morning. Madam Minister, Mrs Montero, as you know - others do not - social security contributions are in no way taxed, they are part of our deferred payroll over time. Well, for decades, money has been used from the pension fund, from our salary, to pay money that should never have been paid with our contributions. That is, with our contributions, improper expenses have been paid that should have been paid with taxes collected by the different ministries of Finance, never with contributions. Minister, as you know, Republican Left put conditions to vote on pension reform last December. One of these conditions was laid down in the sixth additional provision of the Pensions Act, which was adopted last December and which concerns his ministry. His Government had undertaken by law to carry out an audit of social security within a maximum of six months. Well, it's been over 11 months and no sign of the audit. His Government was failing to comply with the law, and the questions were very specific: when was the audit going to take place? When will we know how much money has been raised by the various ministries of Finance to pay the wrong expenses in the last forty years? When will we know what has been done with all the surpluses prior to the creation of the pension shelter in 2000 - which, by the way, was also looted, since under no circumstances did the law allow the withdrawal of funds from the shelter at a maximum of 3% per year, which was repeatedly breached - And on the same line, Minister, until when do you intend to delay your ministry's compliance with what the Court of Auditors requires in respect of the outstanding transfers by the Social Security Treasury in compensation for the money drawn improperly, in breach of Article 109 of the General Law on Social Security? In other words, the Court of Auditors, only analysing two items in a few years, knows and requires its Government to compensate for more than EUR 103 billion that was drawn and should never have been drawn. To break the story that some do, it is very important to do this audit. For this reason, we demanded that it be fulfilled and it would be very good if we had it. It's been six months, I hope it's done soon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u83	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe, Mr Salvador, that some issues are important to put in relation to your question. The first, the Social Security accounts have evolved in the definition of so-called inappropriate expenses to the same extent as the benefits to which citizens are entitled have evolved. At first there were issues related to or related to benefits to affiliates; then, by the hands of socialist governments, for example, health care or other benefits are considered universal simply because of being a citizen, and to that extent the concept of improper spending itself has also evolved, which, as you know, was the subject of in-depth consideration throughout the discussion of the Toledo Pact. Secondly, Your Honor, the Spanish Government consolidates accounts with all subsectors. This means that no one takes money from the other side, they all add to the common accounts. The Ministry of Finance, which is also responsible for social security accounts - let us not confuse these terms - makes its deficit, its debt together. Therefore, what is at stake is to comply with that additional provision, which we will give, and we still have time. After a pandemic has come, you know that we are very overwhelmed in all that has been economic recovery. This is not a fight between the General Administration of the State and the Social Security accounts - I understand by your assertion that you do not raise it like that - and we will have to continue to abound in that direction. Thirdly, we have significantly increased the balancing transfer. This year 2023 we have proposed, with the favourable vote of your group, around 20 billion euros, of 1300 that was financed by the People's Party. Therefore, the hemorrhage that was caused in relation to those public accounts has also slowed it down. We have incorporated a new sum into the pension fund for the first time in more than ten years, which will allow us to increase by 3 billion. I therefore believe that we are moving in the right direction and I do think it is important to note what you were saying, this debate and this question have nothing to do with the question that certain public bodies are questioning about the sustainability of social security accounts. Our system is sustainable, more than twenty and a half million people are currently working in our country, and I therefore say that the pension system is sustainable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u85	Mr. Salvador i Duch.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u86	It is precisely in order to consolidate this speech that the audit is necessary and the law must be enforced. And then there are some things we agree with, some not so much. If I may repeat the question - because nine seconds is difficult - and I will do it in the form of motion or inquiry, because there is much to discuss here on the line you marked. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE WORRY OF THE INCREASE OF CRIMINALITY IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001078]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u87	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Marlaska, knowing you, I wouldn't be surprised if you were in charge of negotiating with Mr. Puigdemont the reform of the sedition crime and not being stopped by the police. Was it you? And by the way, Mr. Marlaska, did you see the BBC documentary yesterday? Did you see his lies? Are you going to say something to the Spaniards after lying to us at the Congress of Deputies or are you going to remain silent, as with the rise in crime? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u89	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. Your Honor, I see that, since the People's Party has nowhere else to scratch and that the Spanish people are absolutely aware that you have kidnapped one of the state's powers and have declared yourself rebellious to the Constitution itself, you are now mixing everything, as always, and talking about security. [[rumors.-Applause]] Of course, you know, although you have said it in the end, that Spain is a safe country; and you know it, I know it, and, more importantly, the Spanish know it. If you intend to make security a political weapon by talking about crime rates, I tell you that you are going to do this government a great favour. Mrs Vázquez, you can misrepresent the data and the indexes, and, as you do in everything, communicate it on Twitter, but always with bulges and falsifying the truth. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u91	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Marlaska, here the only ones who are skipping the Constitution are your partners, with whom you agree to the crime of sedition. Those are the only ones who are against the Constitution, not the People's Party. The perception of insecurity will not be experienced by you in your ministry, but by the Spaniards in the cities and in the villages. According to your data, from the report of the Ministry of the Interior, crime has risen by 25.7% and crimes of a sexual nature, such as rapes, by 19%, but you say that is because it is now more denounced thanks to its feminist slogans. You're lying. Why? So it turns out that there is now a 48% increase in street fighting because more are reported, that thefts are increased by 45% because more are reported and that thefts with violence are increased by 33% because more are reported. Don't you think it's an idiotic thing to say? You have to ensure the safety of women, that's what you have to do. The occupation has been fired 41%, and you do nothing. At present, state security forces and bodies have no authority on the streets. On average, thirty agents are assaulted every day, and you do nothing. Moreover, the agent who dares to say that of the 11 % of the total Spanish population, 32 % of the crimes are committed by foreigners is opened up to him. Eye, this data is official and has been given by the INE, not an inspector. Instead of opening files, what he has to do is listen to the police and the Civil Guard, support them more, strengthen the principle of authority. If you compare this data to those of the same semester of 2018, you know that the crime in Spain increased by 8.9% and that you do absolutely nothing. He is only concerned about emptying prisons through incentives and, in passing, bringing the twenty-three remaining ETA prisoners closer to him. Instead of looking at the numbers of crime, look at the numbers of the surveys in Madrid. You are not legitimized today to ensure a safe Spain to live, to travel and to invest. Today you're more out than in, Mr. Marlaska. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u93	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. Undoubtedly, about supporting the State security forces and bodies and the Civil Guard, as you have done today, referring to a television program, so you support the State Security Forces and Bodies! You misrepresent the data, as you misrepresent the data on irregular entries in the Committee on the Interior saying that in Spain it is where they enter the most, when Italy triples us and the Balkans triples us. Do you know what the crime rate was in 2012? You know who ruled then, don't you? There were 48 crimes per thousand inhabitants. Do you know how many there are now? Just over 41 crimes per thousand inhabitants. You are making comparisons with the years 2020 and 2021, a time when mobility was reduced ostensibly. Make comparisons with years that we can do, be a little serious. Getting to these security quotas is achieved with 13,000 more agents in four years, with greater investments in infrastructure, with more means and strategic plans of action. I tell you again, we live in a safe country. Security concerns less than 90% of Spaniards thanks to the work carried out by our security forces and bodies; don't alarm, don't generate bubbles. You refer to the Ministry of the Interior and I tell you that by doing so you are doing us a favor in terms of crime rates. But there is also a concrete reality, and it is that today, unlike what happened between 2012 and 2018, the crime rate is zero, according to the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT RESPONSIBILITY DOES THE NATIONAL POLICE BODY AND CIVIL GUARDY HAVE IN THE CASE OF PEGASUS SPECIONAJ? [[File number 180/001065]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u95	Question by Mrs Mireia Vehí Cantenys, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u96	Thank you, President. Minister, what responsibility does Interior have in the case of espionage with the Pegasus program?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u97	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. I believe that I have already replied on some other occasion that neither the National Police nor the Civil Guard have employed the Pegasus system in any way or at any time. Also, if you have any interest in hiring intervention systems, you can go to the contractor profile of the Ministry of the Interior. I tell you again that when state security forces and bodies intervene, they never do so without judicial authorization. We even have demands to activate intervention through a key given by the judiciary. Therefore, no intervention is possible without such mandatory judicial authorization, which is proper to a State governed by law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u99	Mrs. Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u100	Thank you, President. Minister, your Government refuses to have a public commission of inquiry, and this protects you. And you're talking about judicial authorizations; that's the same thing Margarita Robles told us. However, judicial authorizations will be legal but are not legitimate because the reasons are ideological. You were spying on us as independenceists, and in fact, you give protection to the logic of the functioning of the state's security forces and bodies. Yesterday ABC and El Mundo published a report leaked by the Spanish Civil Guard that related the CDRs to terrorism and focused on the independence left. Another report, also issued by his ministry at the request of the lawyers of Ómnium Cultural, JERC and CPC, in particular the General Information Commission of the National Police, justified the infiltration of members of Spanish intelligence into organizations of Catalan independence and once again linked independence with terrorism. The report speaks, in particular, of the exclusionary extremisms and positions that develop in European countries and give rise to violent and phylo-terrorist dynamics. Minister, this statement has two possibilities: either you refer to the European countries that apply these concepts to the extreme right and you make a deadly leap and apply it to independence, or the European countries of reference for the Interior are Poland and Hungary. What's your model? What do you think about accusing a student union of terrorism just to justify illegal espionage? Like Defense and Interior, he's spying on us for ideological reasons? This leads us to ask you if you are leading the political police, Mr Marlaska.What reasons do you justify listening to the current member of the CUP, Xavier Pellicer? And the final question, about the Gordian knot of the current situation, the famous agenda of the reunion, is its dialogue to spy on, prosecute and accuse of terrorism to those who do not communicate with its dialogue?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u101	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. You are, supposedly, a left-wing formation, but you seem more and more alike, not just in the voting, right-wing and far-right. [[Laughter]] You have a way of doing inconsistent politics, using bulls and false information, such as the right and the right. [[Applauds]] Please make a thought. I remind you that the forces and security forces of the State act with strict compliance with the legal order. There is no political espionage, there is no persecution of opinions, there is no such state of affairs as you intend to report here today. What is at stake is action by the National Police and the Civil Guard to prevent and investigate the commission of criminal acts. I say it and repeat it: All communications interventions in our country are made with judicial authorization. Means of intervention are used, the acquisition of which is public and the use of which requires a key of access that only gives the judicial authority. I repeat: Spain is a full democracy, a rule of law, opinions are not pursued, ideologies are not pursued; above all, it is a question of preventing and, if not, responding to acts of crime. You can ask me the question whenever you want, but I think you are really aware of it and feel very comfortable in this country, Spain, because you are the first one to know that it is a rule of law. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: HOW MANY TIMES ARE YOU GOING TO EVIDE THAT THE GOVERNMENT DOESN'T DEFEND THE RIGHT OF CATALANS TO BE STUDYED IN CASTELLANO? [[File number 180/001080]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u103	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs María Sandra Moneo Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, every day we witness a new twist of nut that shows that what was initially a suspicion - I am referring to the complicity of your Government with what is happening about the education system in Catalonia - is today a very clear revelation. In fact, the last one who has joined in putting light on that passionate romance that you maintain with Catalan separatism is nothing more or less than Mr Aragonès, who without any filter has revealed 'the pact'. I understand, Minister, that you know that pact. But if you don't know him, I'll refresh your memory. The pact was that you did not resort to Catalan law that expels the Spanish from schools as a pillar to push the dialogue table. And I, in drawing up this question, recalled your words from a few days ago, when you spoke in this House - how was it? - of honesty and frankness. You, honesty and frankness? Do you, who allows the Spanish Constitution and the rights of families who fight in the courts day by day so that their children can study in Spanish? What week after week have you dedicated to insulting the opposition, while you are dedicated to breaking the law and becoming an accomplice to those who seek to undermine the fundamental pillars of our rule of law? [[Applauds]] By the way, Minister, were you sent by Mr Sánchez to visit Mr Puigdemont and negotiate with him? Quite frankly, today what you answer to my group is the least important thing because the cards are on the table, but there are thousands of families today who are wondering what I moved to: How much more do we have left to see? How much more will it be shown that the Government does not defend the right of students to study Spanish in Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u105	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Moneo, how the plumber looks to you. I have a feeling that when you're going wrong - and last week it was very bad for you, and if you don't, ask Mr. Feijoo - you're bringing here a bunch of classics and lies. I have to tell you that a lie, even if it is repeated a thousand times, does not become truth; it simply becomes a bigger lie. The commitment of this Government to all students in Catalonia is a commitment to study in Spanish and Catalan and, above all, to dominate both languages when they complete compulsory education, as is reflected in all laws. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u107	Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I understand that you feel more comfortable as spokesman of the Socialist Party than as Minister of Education, but the reality is that you - yes, you - could have paralyzed the Catalan laws that prevent the presence of the Castilian in school and have not done so, you could have stood on the side of families and have not done so, you could have separated yourself from radicalism and separatism and have not done so. And the history books will write about you, about your government, which undermined the pillars of the rule of law, although, fortunately, they will also say that you were unable to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u109	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Moneo, do you know the only problem that exists here? The position of the People's Party with Catalonia, a position that I would dare to consider failed and relapsed. You have always used the confrontation with Catalonia to scratch votes in any territory of Spain, and you have never had any modesty in handling the Castilian and Catalan if with it you continued in that confrontation and division. His relationship with Catalonia has always been based on distance and lack of understanding. And do you know why you have never aspired to rule in Catalonia? Because they have never had a project for that territory; and not having a project for such an important part of Spain is the same as not having a project for the whole of this country. I must admit that I thought and assumed that with the arrival of Mr Feijoo you would finally understand what linguistic plurality is in this country, even if it was unique and exclusively because it appears in our Constitution, but not yet, also in that Mr Feijoo and you have disappointed. Of course, he is a leader and a leader who is at all moderate, does not understand linguistic plurality and will not forget and will not leave that policy of confrontation and division, so as not to reinvigorate that rupture of Catalonia with Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u111	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u112	Mrs Moneo, I'm just going to give you a recommendation, a piece of advice. You who believe you are the only good Spaniards, what you must do is comply with and assume the Constitution. And leave behind excuses and lies also in language politics. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED THRISTIAN MARIA MORALEJA GOMEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: HOW DOES YOUR MANAGEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN FUNDS OF THE RECOVERY MECHANISM? [[File number 180/001079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u113	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Tristana María Moralesja Gómez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u114	Minister, with the Royal Decree Law 36/2020 created the figure of the PERTE, which for its processing has already taken sixty-nine extensions of term. Shame on any worthy government! You used all your propaganda to sell us the kindness of the PERTE, of their great industrial projects, and, of all of them, especially that of the electric and connected vehicle, their great example. When we warned them of the weaknesses of their bad design, of the poor adaptability to the reality of the sector or that their delays created problems with the investment deadlines, you did not listen to us. Now we know the result, they have awarded only 29% of the funds. Is your goal a success or a failure, Minister? How do you rate your management of European funds? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u115	Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u116	Thank you very much, President. I thank you for this question because I can tell you that I am very pleased with the management we are doing of the European funds, and I will give you a figure. In these two years of implementation of the funds we have already authorised nearly EUR 3 billion, which is 64% of all the funds allocated by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. And yes, satisfaction with a People's Party that blocks and boycotts European funds. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u117	Mrs. Moraleja.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u118	Minister, if the government wanted to ensure the success of the PERTE management, the first thing I would have to do would be to kiss you. [[Applauds]] You announced on March 3, 2021 the PAST VEZ at the UGT-FICA Congress, and, in your boldness, you gave the beneficiaries their names and surnames before taking them to free competition, when they could not and should not do so. Mr Sánchez had to rectify something later, ensuring the attendance, in the face of the scandal that you provoked. Finally, they approved it on 13 July, and on 28 December they published the regulatory bases, which demonstrated the lack of maturity of the PERTE. Until 17 March 2022 the aid was not called up and, after two extensions of the deadline, it was closed on 3 June. What was the result? A disappointing interim resolution, and last week the finding of failure - of your failure, Minister - with a final resolution that left behind many companies and workers; and that a year and seven months after your announcement. Do you have anything to say? Doesn't he say anything about the megafactories? They say they'll make up for it with regional aid. Will it be like what Mrs Rivera said the other day to hold the autonomous communities accountable for their mismanagement, when they have had nothing to do with this LOST? Important investments are at stake, and it is responsibility. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moraleja. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u120	Thank you, President. Indeed, you have made a story of the facts, but I want to start with the first, and it is that the People's Party has been constantly boycotting European funds. You speak of the actual decree law because the figure of the LOSS was adopted, but I would like to remind you that you voted against that figure being put into effect, as you are also voting against the instrument that allows these LOSS and these investments of the European funds to come to businesses and citizens, which are the general budgets of the State. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, will your concern that the European funds will be implemented assume that you will support the general budgets of 2023? I say this because in these budgets ten billion euros are committed for the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, with an increase of more than 250 % over the miser budget that the People's Party left us in 2018. Yes, industrial policy is done, and it is done by supporting the general budgets of the State. I do not know whether to execute EUR 877 million, in fact, can be good news or bad news, but, of course, it is much more than you have done supporting the car industry, which was zero, Your Honor. Therefore, satisfaction, yes, but also realism, and that is why we are going to develop new projects for the automotive industry. When we arrived at the ministry there was a plan to support the automobile industry. Do you know how much money he had? Zero euros, that's your support for the car industry. Many words but few facts, so before teaching the government to respect the Constitution, finally unlock the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and stop going to Brussels to talk bad about Spain, because, no doubt, Mr Feijóo has changed his face, but certainly he has not changed the forms. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON VALENTÍN GÓMEZ GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES IT DO ON THE STATE AND PREPARATION OF THE NEW COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY FOR THE PERIOD 2023-2027? [[File number 180/001067]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u121	Question by Mr Valentín García Gómez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u122	Mr Minister, the current programming of the Community's agricultural policy carried out by the last government of the People's Party highlighted the fact that it caused Extremadura quite a few problems. It has produced serious imbalances in the regionalization of crops, especially irrigation, which, in addition to being the most productive agricultural sector, generates the most employment. It did not make a fair distribution of aid, favouring large farms, which are the least in need, and thus harmed family farming and livestock and genuine professionals in these sectors. Faced with those who have discovered the rural world in a recent demonstration in Madrid - the political right and its allies - the socialist governments in Extremadura, with the help of farmers and farmers, with family farms and professionals, using Pillar I and Pillar II we have preserved the rural environment as a means of living today and generating expectations for the future. Minister, the extremist farmers hope that the new agricultural policy will solve the problems created by the current one, inherited from the governments of the right. Similarly, Spanish farmers and farmers know that with the new common agricultural policy they will find the necessary support to guarantee their incomes. So I ask you: What is your assessment of the state and preparation of the new CAP 2023-2027? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u123	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the common agricultural policy is an income insurance for our farmers and farmers. Along with the food chain law passed in this legislature, agricultural insurance, whose amount of public support we have raised in the draft general state budgets for the year 2023 to 317 million euros, and the more than 1 billion euros of support that this government has approved this year for the whole primary sector, is an absolutely fundamental element; 48 billion euros per year in direct aid for farmers and livestock over the next five years, over the period 2023 to 2027, plus EAFRD aid. We have therefore obtained this guarantee for Spain as a whole, and logically also for farmers and farmers in the extreme, thanks to the adoption on 31 July of Spain's national strategic plan, with reference to the collection of funds, as of today, 2 November, of the 27 Member States, only seven of which we have approved this strategic plan. But I go further, because it is very important that we carry out an information and advice task for the beneficiaries. It is a legal responsibility of the autonomous communities, and the agricultural professional organisations and cooperatives are also helping in this, while from the ministry we have also launched a series of training courses for trainers, and on the EAGF page you can find the technical advice notes on this, but I want to draw attention to the eco-schemes or eco-regimes, which constitute 23% of direct aid, a great novelty of this CAP and for which I have heard some isolated but irresponsible voices calling for its non-application, which is a total contradiction, since it means a reduction of funds for farmers and livestock farmers and also the reduction of environmental objectives that we will have to meet, because this CAP seeks the profitability but also the environmental sustainability of our country. He therefore called for responsibility and not to lose a single euro. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend to enter into the celebration of a referendum in Catalonia with its separatists? [[File number 180/001057]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u126	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, without evasive, only yes or no: Is it the intention of the Government to agree with its separatist partners to hold a referendum in Catalonia? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u128	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. When I hear the right anti-system, the People's Party and VOX talking about Catalonia, I always wonder if they really want the best for Catalonia. Look, it is absolutely clear that the situation today is much better than in 2017: today there are no illegal referendums, no unilateral declarations of independence, no violent protests on the street, no laws of disconnection. Therefore, I am very sorry that the clock stopped for you in 2017, but today the situation in Catalonia and, therefore, throughout Spain is much better than what we had a few years ago. And you know how we got it? With dialogue, with dialogue within the law and within the Constitution, and so we will continue to do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u130	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u131	Minister, your inability to give a clear answer increases suspicion. Look, we're going to be clear on our part. Amnesty and referendum are the two main demands of separatism. None of them fit into the Spanish Constitution, but, of course, that's what Sánchez and this government care very little about. Following the granting of pardons, it is now proposed to grant a covert amnesty through the reform of the sedition crime, reducing penalties, in order to ensure that separatists awaiting trial do not go to prison; that Junqueras and other pardons, who will be able to resume office immediately, and that fugitives abroad, who may return to Spain without having to go to prison, as Mr Puigdemont says, which is what a government envoy has offered him. Yesterday, the Minister spokeswoman said that the reform of the sedition was a personal commitment of the President of the Government. Hey, is it also that agreed referendum that has again publicly demanded Pere Aragonese? Is it part of that referendum, of those secret agreements to which Mr Rufián referred a few days ago, saying that it is already time to implement them? Does this whole matter have to do with the Government's haste to assault the majority in the Constitutional Court? Look, I remind you that the referendum agreed was until very recently the official position of the Catalan Socialists and that it remains today the official position of Podemos, which is part of the government. Fortunately, there is very little time left for you to carry out that attack on the Constitution and national unity. Within a year VOX will be ruling, and then the law will be enforced and there will be no scoundrels with the separatists. Meanwhile, as long as that moment comes, VOX has it very clear: with Sánchez infinite distance, frontal opposition, zero dialogue. Let's see if others are beginning to understand the same thing, for the best interests of Spain, to avoid being cut off, as in the last few days, and not to have to make a fool of themselves. [[Applause.- Various Members: Good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u132	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. I always listen carefully to that nostalgic tone with which you usually offer us your questions. [[Laughter and applause]] I know you liked it better when Spain was different, he Spain is different, you will remember, but it is that we like it, because we are democrats and because we are Europeanists, when Spain looks like Europe, also in criminal legislation, by the way. And what I'm saying to you, in answer to your question, is that everything we do will always be within the law and within the Constitution, unlike the anti-system right that you and the People's Party represent. Look, you were already a Member of this House in 2013, and you will remember perfectly well that the People's Party passed a labor reform that erased workers' rights, in addition to aggressively, as some member of the government said. It will be remembered that in 2013 the People's Party also passed a reform of the abortion law against women and their rights, and it will be remembered that in 2013 there were also papers showing that many of the leaders of the People's Party had received black money. In that context, what the Socialist Party did was to comply with the Constitution, as we always do, and to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. Therefore, because it is essential for political leaders to comply with the Constitution, Mr. Feijoo's leadership is touched, probably sunk. [[Rumors]] He said he was going to be a constitutionalist man and does not comply with the Constitution; he said he came to be a leader, and he is dedicated to obeying those who put him, and he said he was going to be a statesman, and he is aggravating an institutional crisis in the judiciary of our country. [[a Member of Parliament: he's asking you VOX]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u134	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u135	That's why Mr. Feijoo's leadership is as it is. He is already a failed new leader of the People's Party. The third one's gonna win. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL MARIA OF THE HEAD RUIZ SOLAS, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENTAL SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK MEN CAN ACCESS ANY SPACE RESERVED FOR WOMEN JUST MANIFESTING THAT WOMEN FEEL? [[File number 180/001072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u136	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs María de la Cabeza Ruiz Solás, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u137	Mrs. Montero, do you believe that men can access any space reserved for women simply by stating that they feel like women? I ask you this question knowing that you are not going to answer me, because if you answer me, you would have to lie to me; you would have to lie to me because you, Mrs Montero, who have a ministry with a budget of 573 million euros to fight, supposedly, for women's rights, cannot believe that something like this is right. She can't be satisfied that, after so many women's struggle throughout history, all she's achieved is that we can't even go into a bathroom or a locker room anymore. You'd have to lie to me Mrs. Montero or at least you'd have to shut up; shut up and look away, like you did with Olivia, the girl murdered in Gijon by her mother. Six young men had; an innocent creature cruelly murdered to harm his father; an innocent creature, victim of his mother's vicarious violence. How hard it has to be to shut up, Mrs. Montero. How difficult it must be to deceive yourself not to go out and denounce, with pain and rage, as any mother would, this horrible murder of a woman, of one of her own, to avenge her partner by murdering her own daughter. That's hard. Because going out and reporting it would be recognizing that it has been wrong, it would be recognizing that violence has no gender, that a woman can be just as cruel as a man. You, at this point you can't do it anymore, you're incapable of getting out of the mess you've been in. Not even a wretched tweet, Mrs. Montero. You, who were coming to save us, the only thing you have done has been to be unprotected, undervalued and stripped of all the values that have always made us women indispensable to society. What kind of defense can make women who don't condemn the death of a girl at the hands of their mother? What kind of defense can make women who defend that any man can go through being a woman? What kind of defense does anyone approve that a girl's body can be mutilated with a possible gender dysphoria without any more criteria than that of the girl herself, turning a healthy person into a chronically ill person, who will have to take medication for the rest of his life, suffering from a risk of thrombosis, heart attack or cancer? What kind of defense can make women who allow a man, who is not able to win a competition in male categories, to compete as a woman in female categories, taking away from our athletes any chance of getting a title? What kind of defense that allows them to enter our energetic neighborhoods without control that assaults and rapes us because they consider us pieces of meat without rights, but then legislates for those crimes to come out cheaper and cheaper? Answer me if you can, Mrs. Montero, I beg you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u138	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u139	Thank you, President. Look, Your Honor, no man, to rape a woman, to sexually assault a woman, needs to pretend to be a woman. Women are not at risk for trans people; they are at risk for wage inequality, care overload and sexist aggressors. [[Applauds]] You, with your negationist discourse on violence against women, become accomplices to these sexist aggressors, because you normalize their violence, and with your speechLGTBIphobic, normalize and legitimize also that then there is a heartless one who kills a young man in the cry of Maricón! [[Applauds]] Look, stop facing the victims. All the affection and respect for the pain of that family and the loved ones of the creature murdered in Gijón. We will always fight against all forms of violence against children. There you have the law against violence against children, which you voted against. We make laws; you generate hatred. [[Applauds]] And yes, we will continue to protect the protective mothers and we will continue to fight also against macho violence against children, Look, I'll tell you something, your hate speech hits the heart of our democracy, fraternity, coexistence, the care of our neighbors and neighbors. You just want us to hate each other; we want us to hate trans people, migrant people, the neighbor we have and who is unemployed, young people fighting climate change. You will have here a feminist government that defends human rights and leaves you in the corner of history from which you should never have left. [[Applauds]] And, look - I finish - your hate speech also makes a lot of people suffer, people who are afraid to come out of the closet in case they meet one of you and beat up the scream of a maricón!Women who think the best: My husband beats me the normal way. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u140	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u141	That's what happens in our society when you spread your hate speech. Women's rights are human rights, trans people's rights are human rights, and this Government is going to be here for our State to guarantee them. And you know what reality is? What are the millions of women who are winning rights on the streets and the thousands of trans people and LGBTI people proud to be who they are, going out to the streets to build democracy in Spain, who are going to pay your feet. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u142	Mrs. Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u143	Mrs. Montero, I'm only asking you to condemn here and now the murder of this child. [[Applause.-Rumores.-A honourable Member: If you have already done so]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u145	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, concerning the energy crisis and the eco-social transition. For your defence, Mr. Botran Pahissa has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u146	Thank you, President. Minister, whenever we have the opportunity to talk about the energy crisis we recall a couple of issues that we think are very necessary: neither the Russian war against Ukraine is the cause nor the crisis is limited to gas. The truth is that the crisis is pre-war and also reaches other fossil fuels, particularly diesel. Of course, the war has accelerated these problems and puts us at the door of a very harsh social and economic situation, particularly with gas. Without going any further, a few days ago BASF's director general, the German chemical giant, announced in a statement that the increase in production costs would result in job cuts, even in the possible relocation of this huge and emblematic chemical production plant in Germany. But it must be remembered that the rise in energy prices is, as I said, prior to the present war and that it did not only affect gas. [[The Lord]] We are closing our eyes to the diesel crisis, which has an important impact on the cost of transport and agricultural fertilizers; a key element in how to produce food today around the world. We see protests about shortages and fuel prices around the world, but last week Repsol's CEO, Josu Jon Imaz, admitted that this shortage already affects some European countries. So, if it's not the war, what's the cause? For we also highlight it whenever we talk about energy: the cause is the peak of oil, which goes parallel to the peak of certain raw materials, particularly minerals. The cause is the limits of growth, which were already modeled fifty years ago in a study that carried by title this reference, limits to growth, the limits of growth, and that has fulfilled these fifty years aging to perfection, since their models are being fulfilled. Last Friday Herman Daly died - you noticed it in your Twitter account -; Daly, for those who don't know, is one of the references of the ecological economy, which focuses on the biophysical limits of the planet and how different economic systems interact with them. In one of Daly's last interviews this summer in the New York Times, he was asked how it is possible to understand what he stands for: a stationary economy, that is, a growthless economy. He turned around and raised the journalist's doubt: How there can be something that has unlimited growth on a planet that still does not expand; that is, how there can be a constantly growing economy when the planet cannot continue to grow forever and sooner or later these limits will be reached. The question of the limits of growth coincides with another crisis, also very important, which is the climate, which has the same origin, since the industrialization and burning of fossil fuels, which began to expand from Britain to the whole world more than a century and a half ago, go hand in hand. These are two deep and closely connected crises, although they are rarely addressed jointly. For example, when it comes down to gas disruption, we should go back to coal. I suppose it will be one of the main measures proposed by VOX for questioning, which will follow me and deal with these same issues; a negationist force, such as the defeated Bolsonaro. But burning more coal does not exude anything; burning more coal has only one name, and it is that of climate suicide. There are those that are apparently thinner, and we are told that coal is not, but nuclear is the solution, because it is clean. Leaving aside two key issues that must never be overlooked, such as the catastrophic potential of nuclear accidents and that with radioactive waste nobody knows what to do, there is a central contradiction, and it is that uranium is also finite, it is one of these minerals that will also one day run out, and according to Energy Watch Group, the peak would be around 2050. Neither coal nor nuclear, if not renewable. In that we agree, it seems, but the way in which they are planned also has to integrate the peak of oil and minerals. Let us take as an example the policies of driving the electric car and of manufacturing renewables generators, which are two of the projects that take the most European funds in the Spanish State. Does the Government take into account, when promoting the electric vehicle, that it is impossible to replace the entire existing fossil vehicle fleet, i.e. diesel and petrol, with an electric vehicle fleet of identical proportions? Because there are not enough minerals to make these electric cars, starting with those that are necessary for batteries and that already give signs of having reached the peak, such as graphite, cobalt, lithium or manganese. Wouldn't it be smarter, then, while the electrification of transport is being promoted, that a paradigm shift is also being promoted to abandon individual transport in favour of the collective? The same questions can be asked about wind turbines, which also depend on scarce minerals, such as silicon or copper. There are several studies that show this. One of the last of last year, the Finnish Geological Service, in charge of Simon Michaux, warned that the amount of metals required to manufacture only a generation of renewable technology units to replace fossil fuels is much greater than mining production or mineral reserves can supply. The fantasy is being encouraged that the transition involves doing exactly what we do today in our industrial civilization, but changing the sources of energy; and not. That is why, more than just energy transition, we can talk about eco-social transition. What must change are the foundations of this industrial civilization, from the forms that agriculture takes today, to industry, through the world of work in general, which will undoubtedly involve the reduction of working hours. This escapes the object of this inquiry, and therefore, in the subsequent motion, I will focus especially on the transport sector, which is the main generator of emissions - about 30% of emissions are attributable to transport - and also to the energy generation sector. About the climate crisis. After an unusually warm October, with average temperatures both atmospheric and historically high sea temperatures, this climate crisis becomes evident to us. Some may think that these are small changes that would allow us to go to the beach in November and that there is no harm in not coming. It is an absolute frivolity, because what these changes in temperature mean are sudden disorders affecting biodiversity, agriculture and public health. With data from the mortality monitoring system, known as MoMo, of the Carlos III Health Institute of the Ministry of Health, in June, July and August, 4663 people died due to excess temperature in the Spanish State, 885 of them in the Catalan countries. The COP will soon be held in Egypt, and we will recall again the goal of humanity not to reach the average degree of increase in average temperature by 2030. But just yesterday the Reuters Agency reminded us that of the nearly two hundred countries that participated in the COP-26, in the previous edition, a year ago, and that they made commitments for the reduction of emissions-called determined contributions at national level, the NDC - only two dozen have done the duties. Only two dozen have submitted the subsequent emission reduction plans, and among these two dozen there are none of the Member States of the European Union. In addition, the Spanish State has a very outdated legislation, since its climate change law, although very recent, of 2021, has already set targets below European commitments, the one known as Fit for 55, that is to say the 55% reduction in emissions. The Spanish law, however, despite being very novel and despite making it the most progressive government in history, dropped it to 23%. I cannot understand, Minister, how this bad decision was made. He asked why, at the same time as he asked what they would do with regard to the commitments of COP-26 regarding the updating of the reduction plans. By the way, a note to the foot. With the climate change law something very similar happens to what happens with the regulation of rents. In its day the Parliament of Catalonia made an advanced law proposing a reduction of 55% of emissions, a law that came out almost unanimously, since only the PP opposed it. However, it was a law appealed and suspended by the Constitution. Then, the Spanish Government presents the law in which it turns out that it is not a 55, but a 23. I mean, they don't do or let do. Minister, I'm done with this. The eco-social transition is urgent. The climate crisis, the peak of fossil fuels and minerals are already a reality. In view of this, the measures taken by this Government are insufficient or even misleading. The social and class dimension of this crisis with energy prices is already implying a rationing, but through the market, that is, those who can afford it continue to consume, but those who do not, have to drastically reduce their consumption, even if it affects their living conditions, air conditioning, displacements, etc. Energy should not be understood as a commodity, but as a right, and even more so in times of crisis and scarcity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u147	Thank you so much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u148	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am very grateful to you for raising this issue in this plenary, and I am very grateful that in your speech you paid tribute to Donella Meadows and to the report commissioned by the Club de Roma, which was published fifty years ago, effectively highlighting the limits to growth, the difficulty of continuing to think that the cowboy economy, with an immeasurable plain and without limits, could be a space in which the prosperity and progress of peoples can be realized. The conviction that price or technology will solve the issue was clearly evident. It has not been so, and we are on the temporary limit of the ability to respond, to react with solvency to ensure the opportunities for progress of present and future. I would like to tell you that this is something that we were able to see four years ago when we arrived at the Government, when we checked the space, the outstanding duties that remained in order to be able to react effectively to a climate emergency that came upon us and for which the society and the economic systems in Spain were poorly prepared; realities for which we did not have the right tools and which required us to respond in the light of the immense misadjustment and the delay with which the progress of the Spaniards, with which we responded, in an absolutely linear and inertial way, to the energy crisis. We set the government scheme as an opportunity not only to recover the lost years, but also to facilitate a reaction that would allow us to modernize the productive structure; to ensure much more just systems; the inclusion of Spaniards in the responses; and the generation of opportunities at all levels, thinking that the energy transition required a social, economic and environmentally just response. We should be able to recover professionals with excellent training that we had before the financial crisis and that they had to emigrate as a result of the spectacular stoppage that occurred deliberately and ideologically in the transformation of our energy system. We knew that we had to foster a model of equal opportunities, encourage quality employment and vocational training. We knew that we should strengthen in the public accounts, but also in the strategic decisions of the companies, the accounting linked to the Sustainable Development Goals, to environmental limits and, in particular, to the creation of value or to the creation and strengthening of costs that would end up limiting the industrial and economic activity capacity of the different sectors if the challenge of climate change were not consistently incorporated. This was an opportunity to re-industrialize the country, to give alternatives for progress to productive sectors, to give opportunities for progress to citizens living in rural areas, pending in the primary sector, and in coastal areas, awaiting the impact of climate change on our coasts; to citizens who knew that the challenge ahead cannot be solved solely on the basis of a technological promise that sometimes generates conditions that go beyond what could initially have been thought. It is a model that requires us to redirect investment towards efficiency in the use of resources both for the production of goods and services and for the way in which we consume them; a model that allows us to lay the groundwork on some examples of success in key aspects for the new economy: bidirectional chargers produced by Wallbox; power electronics equipment for photovoltaics, by Power Electronics; solar trackers like Soltec, or the revolution of large and small companies in each of the areas linked to the transformation of our energy system. We knew that this was also an opportunity for territorial cohesion; the balanced, intelligent and sustainable development that forgot other growth models raised only on the basis of the bubble and speculation about the soil and that, unfortunately, they seem to recover some space in some territories of our country. It was an opportunity to rethink a little and poorly distributed model, based on large infrastructures not always necessary; based on solutions, sometimes very polluting and with serious impacts on the health of citizens, and always in the hands of very few actors when making decisions. Therefore, the energy transition offers us an opportunity that, they share, with nuances, part of what you say, allows us to democratize the energy system. It allows us to consolidate the idea that we need a much more democratized economic system, a role of State institutions in the turbulent years of transformation of the transition much more committed, much more attentive to the pre-distributive and redistributive elements that make not only no one stand behind in this transformation, but that everyone has opportunities. We understood that, in this context, it was time to recover a lost future, taking advantage of the start-up of the energy transition, with the deployment of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, with the strategic framework in both climate and climate change. The deployment of renewables, energy efficiency, storage, self-consumption, small, medium and large solutions, the construction of alternatives, the search for a profound transformation in the way in which we produce and consume, as I said before, gave us the opportunity to offer a clear road map, which would give certainty to investors, which would stimulate innovation, but, above all, which was pending the social impact, the environmental impact of what had been produced over the years. So let me say that I believe that Spain has taken a Copernican turn over what we had experienced before. I will not stop to explain the later, harsh and complex health crisis for families and businesses. Nor in the way we wanted to deal with it, highlighting precisely the link and the need to strengthen environmental and social policies. Dealing with and emerging from that crisis marks a time before and a time after what had happened in the previous crisis. The expansion of public spending, the preservation of citizens' rights, a decisively green and renewable sense in the management of our resources were crucial. And the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan is a new opportunity that allows us to make investments possible for our model change. 40% - a very large amount of resources - is linked precisely to facilitating an opportunity for progress for the citizens of the present and for the citizens of the future, for our children and for our grandchildren, in order to solve in advance problems that, if not, would be faced with virtually no capacity or time for reaction. It is true that in this complicated context the invasion of Russia in Ukraine has been enormously disruptive, enormously disruptive, but it shows to what extent anticipating such reflection and investment in such public policies has been fundamental. It has shown that we have one more reason to disengage from fossil fuels as soon as possible. It has shown that we have more reason to balance globalization with respect to local needs and opportunities, strengthening strategic autonomy, knowing and understanding what resources we have and what their annual regeneration capacity is. It has been one more element to think that together we work and respond better. We agree that we need a much more democratic energy model. Obviously, we need a model that responds to the general interest, to the common interest of all, to the interest of a democratic Spain that must conform to a rule of law, to a liberal democracy in which we live, to a Constitution that we must respect at all extremes, which guarantees the initiative of private investment, but which recalls how important it is to keep in mind the limits of resources and to keep in mind the needs of citizens, within a framework of social and environmental guarantees that must inspire all our actions. A model that does not forget the alternatives, that cannot condone energy poverty, a model that cannot be addressed in a timely manner, that needs to profoundly transform the basic pillars of our energy system, that cannot be anchored in the past and that therefore requires a strategic framework of energy and climate, where not only the aspects related to the transformation of the energy system are taken into account, but also the observation, knowledge, the capacity to adapt to the effects of climate change, the commitment to the recovery and restoration of our ecosystems, the commitment to be inspired by nature to resolve and promote green infrastructures, the commitment to understand the limits to have the water required in the new planning cycle or the commitment to understand and know what raw materials we have and how to manage them sustainably. These are not aspects that can be resolved in isolation without bearing in mind the implications for the rest of the economic and social policy elements, nor their implications at the national and international levels. We know that, in just a few days, we will have a complicated meeting in the context of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, where a very large part of the developing countries look and expect a clear response from Europe with regard to their commitment not only to transform our energy system - regardless of whether there may be saw teeth at a time when security of supply has been threatened - but also a firm and supportive commitment to respond to and accompany the transformation of countries with much less resources, with much less responsibility and with much greater impact and risk as a result of the effects of climate change. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u149	Thank you. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u150	Minister, from your intervention it could be deduced that we agree, but what I wanted to point out is that in the most emblematic policies in relation to climate change and the energy transition has mud feet. That is what I wanted to point out when I said that the electric car, renewable cars or mitigating the electric bill are solutions that give way, but they do not address the central issue: that this crisis is not short-term, but it is structural. I insist, to promote the electric car, but without taking into account that it will not be possible to replace the entire fossil vehicle fleet with an electric car fleet leads you to present budgets such as the last, which in terms of transport are absolutely continuous. Rail investments, for example - which is a strategic issue to take into account in the light of the energy crisis - are fully continuous; and they are continuous at best, because when we look at budget implementation data, it is one of the areas where they are most negligent. The other day on the occasion of the full debate, the figures recovered: in 2021 only 19% of what was budgeted for proximity in Catalonia was implemented. That is not being aware of the extent of the climate crisis. I wanted to get into these issues that are dangerous, that are taboo. There are certain taboo words such as decrement or rationing, but one thing must be taken into account: that will exist, the question is how it decreases, to whom and how energy or other goods are related. His speech was much more sensitive to this issue and has gone from points to points not to confront what he was saying. However, when Mr Sánchez talks about the energy crisis, he does so from a completely different paradigm from what you have put forward. The other day in the Senate he said that there was nothing to worry about about the rationing and that the crises had gone away. That's a kind of magical and optimistic thought, which tries to move it into the investor climate, I guess, because I imagine it's troubling to come out and admit that a crisis can have this depth, but you also have to face reality as it is. And rationing, as I told you, is not planned... because this reasoning is already being given, since people already choose between heating up or filling the fridge. That's already a reality. And on the policy of subsidizing certain fossil fuels, for example, the other day already demonstrated an AIReF report that has actually benefited higher incomes, because they have continued to consume as they used to, but with this percentage subsidized by the State, than low incomes. The 20 cents to fuel is an example of policy that mitigates but does not transform, because they continue to consume more those that consume more. Therefore, if there is no change of model - which only a few small measures point out, such as the improvement in relation to the legislation for electrical self-consumption, whose decree they recently presented - it is not facing the crisis. Another key issue, no doubt, is who is leading this energy transition. We have already insisted whenever we talk about energy that leaving it in the hands of the very large corporations that have driven fossil capitalism is a mistake, that large energy companies should be publicly owned, be nationalised and that there should therefore be a democratic direction for the energy transition. This is an issue that is not usually addressed in order to move from point to point. I insist, the government's energy transition emblems leave much to be desired and the climate commitments - I conclude with this - also. That is to say, having a climate change law that says that emissions should be reduced by 23% when 55% of countries think about what explanation they have in this context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u151	Thank you. I give the floor to conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u152	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. This is a particularly important debate, so I am particularly pleased to have young people in the rostrum. I believe that some of the issues that have been raised are extremely sensitive and highly strategic in terms of generating opportunities for them. We agree on two fundamental points. The first is that we need a profound, very important transformation in our way of understanding progress and in our way of consuming. There is no planet that can give of itself to respond to the way in which we have understood development so far. Therefore, the need for a profound transformation and the need to be clear that there are limits to growth unites us. I think we're separated from the recipes or proposals we make. You stress decrease and I stress the need to accompany that transformation in such a way that all people follow us and that we do not only inspire the solution in the context of the debate on how, in a zero-sum exercise, one uses or another should be rationed, thus potentially confronting one against another. I believe that there are four major aspects that require in-depth analysis and a commitment to know whether we are all in agreement, in particular in this parliamentary framework. The first is to make it clear that we are talking about something that must always have people at the heart of the decision. It is the people, the citizens, the recipients of the policies, who must be benefited by our policies, who aspire to participate, not only on the occasion of the elections, in our policies because they understand that what we are doing directly affects them and therefore want to be responsible for their future, they want to see the opportunities for the future guaranteed. And it is the responsibility of the institutions to ensure the social vision of inclusion and equity in an exercise in which serious inequalities can occur in the years of transformation, and we do not want exclusion or poverty. We want to ensure fairness in the sharing, in access to opportunities, in the sharing of costs, and for this it is essential education, cultural change, debate about the priorities and values of each generation. The second point that I think is fundamental is that there is no public policy that is left out of a debate of these characteristics, such as education policy, training policy, fiscal policy, land management policy, energy policy and water policy. It is a way of understanding the progress in which all the tools available to the State, all the tools available to society, need to reflect on how to better solve an equation that has so far been based on a false premise, and that is that there are no limits to growth. The third consideration has to do with something you and I alluded to. I believe that the conviction about our ability to innovate is important, but not always the fact that new technical solutions are available allows us to avoid new problems associated with their application that we could not see in advance. Therefore, promoting more efficiency, promoting better management is capital; innovation, understanding, understanding and the capacity to improve our society is fundamental; however, we must always maintain a critical spirit in order to be able to review its effectiveness, in order to be able to review its possible unwanted effects. And finally, there is a question of governance that affects us all; it affects us all in our country, in our society, but also on a small planet where there is no one at the forefront of the decisions that we could have to implement each of the countries, and this is a hugely complex debate. That is why the reference to the climate conference seems important to me, because only on the basis of cooperation and transparency can we make progress together. Cooperation and transparency that obviously require dialogue between public institutions, but also between public institutions and society, and also between countries and between different generations. I believe that for this there are no shortcuts, that dialogue, understanding, respect and consideration of those issues that cannot be assumed by many and those issues that require the effort and generosity of others are key. So welcome to a theoretical and practical debate of immense consequences that I think is absolutely inescapable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u153	Thank you. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE THIRD Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE ON THE MEASURES THAT THE GOVERNMENT intends to TAKE TO CHANGE THE RUMBOUR OF ITS ENERGY POLICIES AND THEIR DIRECTORATES SO TO THE INTERESTS OF THE SPANISH. [[File number 172/000245]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u154	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge on the steps the Government intends to take to change the direction of its energy policies and thus direct them to the interests of the Spanish. For your defence, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u155	Thank you so much. Madam Minister, in this urgent inquiry I am asking you a question that is relatively simple: what changes are you going to make in your energy policy so that it serves the real interest of the Spanish people? What changes? Because today the policy that you are carrying out does not serve the interests of the Spaniards. Perhaps it serves the interests of some lobbies that you seem to be benefiting from, perhaps it serves the interests of a dogmatic ideology that you defend, but of course it does not serve the interests of the Spanish. In the previous urgent inquiry addressed to you, you have given quite a bit of information that, frankly, puts the hair at the top. You say: Welcome to this debate. Madam Minister, what debate? if you do not allow us to debate. You come here fencing your dogmas, because you are authentic dogmas of faith. Madam Minister, you - even if you look down and bend your head - never allow us to discuss your ideological principles And from them, you force us, as if forced feeding is about, to swallow all your policies to the detriment of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] As you have been speaking, among your ideas, you have said: we have looked for new solutions, but problems have arisen that we could not have foreseen. Your whole policy, Minister, reminds me very much of Mao's Great Jump Forward, when Mao found a solution to those sparrows who ate the wheat: he threw a plague of locusts. The locusts wiped out the sparrows, but they also caused a famine that caused millions of deaths in China. The Communist Government was defending itself by saying: We found a solution, but there was a problem that we had not foreseen. [[Applauds]] You, with your ideological dogmas, are generating the Spanish the biggest energy problem in their history. I'll give you some data. The IDAE, a small shop of its ministry watered with 195 million euros - public, by the way - whose director - a propagandist at his service - charges about 100,000 euros a year for spreading the word of the ministry, says that the expected prices of electricity for today in Europe will be for Spain the highest in all Europe. Where's your solution, Minister? You, who came dressed as saviors with your policies: Iberian mechanism, all the stories you advertise day after day. How can we pay almost twice as much in Spain as in Germany for electricity? How can that Germany that has reopened its coal plants pay half of what Spain pays? Simply, Madam Minister, because they are functioning at a stroke of science, they are functioning at a stroke of numbers, not like you, who are functioning at a stroke of ideology. [[Applauds]] And when you are discussed you replicate with your dogmas, quite simple, but some fall into the population. You say: electrical storage. Minister, electrical storage is not available today on a large scale. The proof is that the energy can only be stored in the swamps, which you, by the way, are allowing to empty, because every time - and this the Spaniards have to understand - that a dam opens its gates has had to collect prior permission from the corresponding hydrographic confederation, that is, from you. So if the swamps in Spain are empty, they are emptied and we lose those cubic meters of water is because you have authorized it. Please explain to me how this can be done for the benefit of the Spaniards. You criticise that we are talking about coal, but it is that, minister, when the electricity generated by coal thermal power plants entered the energy mix, they brought down the price, because in that Machiavellian system that you designed the last energy to enter it is the one that sets the price, and the coal, which entered the last one by law, had a lower price than the gas. That is, you have tied your rope to our necks and you are the ones pulling precisely from that rope that today stifles the Spaniards, which forces you to pay the bill for the most expensive light in history. [[applause]] By the way, where are your unions? Where are those little pomegranates who in 2017 were screaming against a 70 euros bill of light when we are now paying 126 megawatt hours? How can it be, Minister, that, when you come, we are criticized for saying: renewable energies, yes, but to the right extent? They cannot pretend to replace all of Spain's energy today with renewable energy, it is physically impossible. The proof of this is that of renewable energy in Spain, wind power has an efficiency of around 25 %; that is, of all the power installed in Spain, in each hour it is operating approximately 25 %; the remaining 75 % of average is stopped. And the solar much less. And this, Minister, you will not be able to change by decree law. It's a physical reality they won't be able to overcome. In addition to that, there are other discussions, and it is that the photovoltaic plates that are installed in Spain come entirely from China, which basically subject us to the same energy dependence as any other energy import. I'm going on with the argument. Aerogenerators' blades are not recyclable or reusable. When the useful life that they have lasts, about twenty years, these quotes pile on uncamped on top of each other; some try to bury themselves. Where's that ecology you're defending? Where's that green energy you're defending? [[Applauds]] Because in the end reality is neither white nor black, as you want to represent it; reality moves on a gray scale, and what Spain needs is a useful energy mix that draws or depends on the resources we have in Spain - be it gas, be it coal, be it oil - as far as possible, Minister. Because if we have coal production, when international production suddenly goes off, we can control prices using our production. Even if we used hydraulic gas fracture extraction, we could control gas prices at that time when they are internationally fired, which is what the United States does, by the way. I keep telling you, Minister, that although plagues throughout Spain with renewable energy plants would not be able to meet all the demand in Spain. And even worse, this energy also has an impact. The mountains of Tineo, in Asturias - I don't know if you know them - are currently plagued by aerogenerators. The agricultural work that was carried out in those mountains can no longer be done. That has an impact on our industry, on our agri-food sector, which you are sacrificing for your religion. Like those who made human sacrifices on the altars for their religion, you sacrifice industrial sectors of Spain for your religion. [[Applauds]] Moreover, the marine wind turbines that have been installed have proved to make the fishing activity in its surroundings totally incompatible. Again, an industrial sector, that of artisanal fishing - which, by the way, for you should be eco, friendly fully defendable - that you are sacrificing for your religion. In short, it's not all as green as you paint it. We must once again defend that Spain depends, to the extent possible, on its own resources. Besides, minister, I think that's what the Spaniards want. The Spaniards are not willing to pay the record bills for you to put an Agenda 2030 medallion on your chest; they are not. The Spanish want to ensure the interests of the Spanish, always within reason, but they want to be able to survive. And the proof that in the background you also care about the opinion of the Spaniards is that their Correspondent of Podemos the other day was plotting here in Congress a circular graph according to which the very large majority of Spaniards have a kind of anxiety or climate anxiety, which in theory would support their dogmatic policy. Well, Minister, if you're really interested in the opinion of the Spanish, why don't you ask them? Why do they not open a public consultation, supported by article 92 of the Constitution, on essential political and economic issues of the nation, which is, by the way, what the Constitution says? Why don't you open that consultation with all the guarantees? [[Applauds]] Ask the Spaniards if they want Greta or if they want to depend on themselves; if they want their climate insanities with unobstructed electricity prices or if, on the contrary, they want to live in a state with reasonable certainty. Why don't you ask? Why? Open that consultation! Or go up here and explain to the Spaniards, looking them in the eye, why don't they want to ask them. I suspect that it is because you know that the Spaniards are reasonable and want a reasonable policy, not the dogmatic policy that you propose. And if not, go and ask the neighbors of La Robla, the neighbors of Langreo or the neighbors of Soto de la Barca, in León and Asturias, thermal plants opened in the forties, sixties and seventies, which today have the most expensive energy in history and, moreover, they have no work in their regions because of their fault. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u156	Thank you. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u157	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Your Honor. The truth is that when I hear you speak, the first reflection that comes to my mind is in which world and in which year you are anchored. [[Applauds]] I don't know if in this race for knowing who distributes Spanish cards with the PP you get better or worse still. If these are their priorities and recipes, I think they have very little knowledge of what Spain's problems are. I do not think that it meets or understands the needs of the challenges of the present and the policies that Spain needs to continue on the path of progress. I am surprised that you call dogma of faith not only to the Meadows report that we spoke of and the limits of growth, but to so many Nobel prizes accumulated over the past fifty years that have analysed precisely these problems, to science as a whole, to the national and international academy, to the organizations that are dedicated to the defense of investors and entrepreneurs, to trade union organizations, to the development banks, to the governments of the United Nations, to the data, and even, by the way, to the academics of Comillas, where you studied, and so many others who read with so much attention the Encyclical of the Vatican Laudato yes. That is, above all these people and institutions you can see that you know more and understand how to spread progress today. But it's that the Spaniards disagree with your assessment, so let me find out two things that I think have gone unnoticed, perhaps because it stayed in the newspapers of the sixties and seventies, read twenty years late when you were born. The first: Putin has definitely blown up the era of fossil fuels. To the environmental and public health reasons is added the evidence of the devastating economic and social impact of fossil fuels, price volatility, Europe's overdependence on a single supplier, the chain effects that this crisis is generating on the world economy and on geopolitics, and the obvious need to accelerate the energy transition. The second: Spain is in better condition than the rest of the countries in our environment and must take advantage of this train to generate employment, innovation and solutions close to the resources we have; we do not, of course, have any gas or oil or coal of poor quality, as you probably heard in your family environment. And we are in better condition because we have been able to diversify our supplies, because we have been able to take advantage of the weight of renewable energies and because we have exceptionally well-trained young people and leading companies in the world. We know that the energy transition is activated and accelerating, and that allows us to react better, even if we are not free of conditions as a result of what happens to others. Do you know what the big difference is right now between what happens in Germany and in Spain? Something that has to do with something that you deny: we are in the worst hydraulic year in decades and the reservoirs are empty because it does not rain. It's relatively simple to understand. That affects the hydroelectric production of the entire Iberian peninsula, that requires Spain to function as a battery to secure the electricity supply of our neighbour Portugal and that makes it even more difficult to generate electricity from the French nuclear park, which is greatly aged, with corrosion problems but, moreover, with refrigeration problems this summer as a result of the lack of water. Europe's high dependence impacts our economies, reduces our room for manoeuvre and puts us at a disadvantage vis-à-vis third parties, which is why we have to speed up our transformation, always thinking that rising energy prices on international markets directly affects our economy, our homes, our production system, and therefore we have to take structural measures to ensure that it does not happen, and short-term measures to affect us as little as possible. That is why, in this government, we clearly have to defend the interests of Spain, of all Spaniards, through an agile, committed and fair climate policy. Do you know how farmers and our rural compatriots are defended? Combating climate change, anticipating the capacity to respond to prolonged droughts, heat waves and the risk of fires, and also working and recognizing their daily contribution to the conservation of ecosystems that protect us all. Do you know how to defend workers in the tourism sector? Fighting climate change and soil erosion, protecting the coast and ensuring water availability. Or do you think we're going to have many tourists at 47 oC and with drought? Do you know how you defend the coal regions? Recognizing and appreciating its historical contribution to the progress of Spain for generations - not always, by the way, with conditions of job security or well-paid wages - but also betting on opportunities and building economic and industrial alternatives in these territories, which, by the way, has shone for its absence for too long. [[applause]] Do you know how to defend young people and build a future of opportunities? Fighting climate change and ensuring that our prosperity is compatible with environmental limits, with the capacity to regenerate resources and by investing in innovation, employment and ensuring their qualification and rights. Do you know what remains the most important cause of climate change? The burning of fossil fuels. Do you know the number of premature deaths associated with the burning of fossil fuels in our country? 44 000 people a year, which is seen to be inconsistent with what you see as defending the interests of Spanish citizens. We have had forty-two days of heat wave, which multiply by seven the average heat wave days between 1981 and 2010 and this year has been the third driest in the years with drought in Spain since records have been made, in the last sixty-one years, and, in addition, consecutively, affecting in a very important way the risk of desertification and directly influencing the demand for energy and the capacity to produce it, as I have said before. They are data that are not taken from any dystopic book or science fiction; they are scientific data and evidence that reflect a palpable reality that already affects the Spaniards and that has concrete consequences for the economy and the well-being of people. Orwell did not live the consequences of the use of fossil fuels in our economies, however, as early as 1949 he was able to imagine a world where disinformation, deception to citizens, the alteration of reality and the lack of truth about the analysis of problems; a world to which some try to lead us systematically by falsifying data, such as those you bring, lying to citizens and attacking scientific knowledge. In what dystopia, I ask you, have you been lost? Climate risks are now linked to a geopolitical context with great complexities, which requires a high level of vision and a road map with public policies that protect the interests of Spanish consumers and a united, solidarity-based and flexible European reaction. Spain cannot be anchored in the past, and this government has been working for more than four years on climate security and energy transition, a profound transformation that in short times is complex. That is why it requires a social commitment of maximum guarantees, a vocation to respond to the risks of the present and of the future, as well as to create opportunities for all; opportunities that open up for Spain, that are recognized at international level and that allow us to place ourselves in a space in which the Iberian peninsula can become a great industrial energy center of enormous importance for Europe. Because we will have neither gas nor oil and we will have coal of poor quality, but what we do have is sun and wind. It will do so because, by setting an example, in these four years the installed capacity - which is not the same as the electricity generated - both wind and photovoltaic has grown spectacularly. Storage is a reality in Spain, although you don't like it, but, it's true, you're right, you have to make it increase in a very important way so we need to continue to empower. So, I understand that in this case we will be able to count on your support for our national storage strategy, to achieve by 2030 have twenty gigawatts of power installed in storage. Allow me to devote one minute to coal, because, as I was saying, what we found when we arrived at the Government was total complicity with the fact that the citizens who worked well in the mines, or in the thermal power plants, will be left with one hand in front and one hand behind because of the lack of construction of alternatives. It was a closure that had long been forced by European legislation, but no one had thought seriously about the workers. You want us to open the coal now? You, exactly? With what guarantees for workers and with what guarantees for coal-mining areas, once the whim has been overcome or it is clear that it is not viable? Doesn't this concern you? You should know very well that this sector has lived with enormous suffering decades of abandonment. I am sure you have heard at home that before you were born there was something called the strike, there was something that was difficult to pay the payroll and access to the economy of mining workers to the point where the suspension of payments was raised in the 1970s and had to be resolved with the nationalization of mines. And fifty years later you come to me with this? But what future are you thinking? But what do you want to give away? Misery? Do you really think the future is coal? Do you really think that the wind does not blow at night and that we are ruining the country with energy policies, instead of realizing that what would ruin it would be to stay anchored in the past? Does this say so here and it stays so wide? You go out into the real world in 2022. [[Applauds]] For energy policies in Spain, the right bets have been made. You, Mr Figaredo, are still left with 1984 in the future. Back from the past, it's 2022. [[Applauds]] Renewable energies already offer more and better opportunities for the land on which you were born, both in relation to coal and the rest. The industrial and energy future of Asturias, in Gijón in particular, is linked to green hydrogen in Arcelor, but it also has leading companies in solar structures, offshore wind structures, electronic power structures for photovoltaics, biogas and biomass. The future of Gijón and Asturias is today's present, and it has absolutely nothing to do with those things that you allude to invoking are not known which religion or deity outside this planet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u159	Madam Minister, you are so dogmatic that you become genuine and good heirs to the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which has a tradition in your dogmas and in supporting the imposition of ideas... [[by mistake sounds the fire alarm for a few moments.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u160	The alarm seems to have been resolved. Let's start from the beginning, Mr Figaredo. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u161	Minister, your policy is so disastrous that it jumps to the alarms of the Congress of Deputies. [[Laughter and applause]] In your dogma, minister, as good heirs of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, you come with the lesson learned, you have not stopped repeating - I think up to seventeen times I have counted - a Spanish card. You repeat as a parrot the four ideas that draw you from the ministry. The reality is that you are absolutely out of the world. Minister, I didn't say we had to grab the coal, I didn't say. You come, twist the words and try to bring the arguments closer to your convenience. Minister, Spain and the Spanish need a prudent, prudent energy mix. Now we are faced with a situation that you described very well when you said that we depend on a single gas supplier that is Putin; you are absolutely right, and that is the policy of the European Commission and its successive governments in Spain. That's really the problem. [[Applauds]] We cannot depend on a single supplier. We need to diversify our energy sources as much as possible. Spain has gas reserves to supply for forty-three years, and you, in your ecological transition law, even forbids exploring them. So don't come here and tell us Chinese stories - because you are actually Chinese - that you want us to have energy independence of any kind, because the technology with which photovoltaic energy is generated comes from China - energy dependence - and the systems with which electric energy is generated by aerogeneration also have their ecological glues. But you prefer to erase them because you dogmatically cling only to those two possible sources of energy. The reality is that Spain and the Spaniards go on a boat all together and you, for some lofty but dogmatic idea, convinced us to burn or throw into the water all the lifeboats and, suddenly, something that was not in your schemes has caused that boat to sink. What's the surprise? That Spain has no lifeboats because you carried out an energy policy for years absolutely irresponsible. We must, Madam Minister, return to common sense; we must, Madam Minister, rely on as many sources as possible, that is, diversification. And if those sources can be extracted in Spain, let's do it, but don't close yourselves in the band for, as I said, mere ideology. You're talking about agriculture. Madam Minister, you in the CAP have established the obligation to receive European funds to put land on a beard. They've taken us to medieval farming techniques. And you intend to tell us that we are old? [[Applauds]] At the very least, your Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge is medieval, and that, Minister, runs counter to the interests of the Spanish. You're talking about swamps being in historical minima. Madam Minister, because you have authorized each and every one of the empty ones that have been produced, all of them, and this is important for the Spanish to understand and for you to stop lying to the Spanish. Therefore, please, Minister, prepare, in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution, a public consultation on whether the Spaniards want their strategy harmful to the interests of Spain or whether, on the contrary, they prefer a reasonable strategy. Renewable? Yes, but to the right extent and with patience, because as much as you tighten the accelerator to the renewables, what is going to happen is that the Spaniards are choking, because we do not have the capacity today to assume the strategy that you intend to impose on us. Please ask and let Spain decide whether it wants its climate crazy or wants common sense: reasonable energy prices, energy available to all Spaniards and energy that depends on ourselves. Ask the Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u162	Thank you. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u163	Thank you very much. In this second round, what I liked most was that the alarms sounded as you started talking and that you would use the expression 'please' at some point; I liked the finger less. [[Applauds]] I'm going to ask you a few questions about that analysis that you do of dogmatism, madness and I don't know how many more things. Do you think the climate system exists or not? Are you in danger or not? Do you think that water is fundamental to our country? Yes or no? And can we drink the water of our children and grandchildren or do we have to prepare for climate stress scenarios? Do you think ecosystems are important and the restoration of fundamental biodiversity or do you think we can have employment on a dead planet? Because all of this is important in considering which alternatives can simultaneously generate innovation, employment, industrial modernisation, competitiveness and less dependence on the outside in our energy system. So, as I told you on one occasion, telling half truths or lying is not easy to solve simple questions, not even identifying what is, for that supposed referendum, the question that would be asked to the Spaniards. It is true that at a time of tension as hard as the one we are experiencing there is a very suitable crop stock so that there is an effervescence of the 20th century lobbies who want to return to the past regarding the answers to our energy system in the face of the need to bet on an orderly transformation that puts into value that energy of lower operating costs and that represents a greater capacity for innovation and the generation of quality jobs. I think the alternatives you put forward are obsolete. By the way, I think we have a balanced and greatly diversified mix in its sources of origin, so we are in much better condition than everyone else. But this does not mean that we live in a bubble, that others are not well off for the Spaniards because Spain, although it seems strange to you, is not an island separated from the rest of the world or from the rest of the galaxy; what happens in the rest of Europe matters to us and what happens in Africa as well. That is why we have to work in a world that not only cannot grow without limits, but is finite. That is why geopolitics goes through a hugely complicated debate, which is how to meet everyone's needs and how to drive an energy system that does not generate such negative externalities as those that have already burst into our faces. It's not a problem of the future, it's a problem of the present. The take-off of the installation of renewable energies in our country is not the result of chance, but is the result of accumulated years of work, effort, combining the private sector with an appropriate institutional framework and with adequate professional capacity. We are the country of Europe with the greatest solar resource and one of those with the greatest wind resource. This differentiates us from the others, and we think that we should not lose that train either for the solar or for the wind - or onshore offshore - nor for the new vectors that will solve many of the complex equations of the industry in the medium term in the substitution of natural gas - which is not for now, but will be for the medium term - such as renewable hydrogen, which explains that 20% of all new renewable hydrogen projects that appear and have funding in the world take place in Spain. We have a large industrial value chain with photovoltaic technology, 60% of the components originate in Spain. By the way, it's not a technology invented in China, it's a technology that we let go of, a mistake that we have to correct. Spain wants and is in a position to lead a project of common solar interest at European level to promote precisely the innovation, the improvement in yields and the innovation in materials, and not to depend on the materials used today or on the limitations to today's yields. The smart and patriotic thing is to bet on the indigenous resources and the solutions that our citizens, young people and not so young can find, and this is achieved by renewable energies without externalities. Another different thing is what can happen in a transition phase, in which there is still room for some of them. We are at a time when we will have to drastically reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, particularly of Russian origin, but, as I said, Spain has a hugely diversified mix: the United States, Algeria, Nigeria, Trinidad and Tobago, Qatar and so many others. This is the position of the Spanish Government, but I will tell you that the surveys say that this is the position of the vast majority of Spaniards - 90% of Spaniards bet on the energy transition and the fight against climate change - and it is also the European level bet, because together we can go further, with less cost and more opportunities. So yes, we must continue to displace fossil fuels in our mix and we must continue to drive responses that take into account the impact on the population, people, especially the most vulnerable. I hope that if this really matters to you, we can count on your constructive contributions and not just your half-truths or your lies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u164	Thank you. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on measures to be taken by the Government in the face of the increasing level of railway services. [[File number 172/000246]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u165	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the measures the Government intends to take in the face of the increasing deterioration of rail services. For your defence, Mr. Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since you govern the deterioration of the quality of public services, it is progressive and unstoppable. If we are talking about rail services, the situation, Mrs Sánchez, is alarming, and it is evident from the perception that users have of the unfortunate quality of rail service, especially as regards proximity and rolling stock. There is a big cut in the right to mobility, Minister, because we have rail services that are increasingly reduced, more expensive, with more cancellations, with more delays and with more incidences of all kinds. What's the cause, Minister? Is it insolvency or is it bad faith? [[Applauds]] The efforts of this government, Minister, do not concentrate precisely on the search for the quality of public services, because if the priority of its executive at the moment in Catalonia is to benefit the coup-makers of the process with the criminal reform of the sedition crime, logically it passes to a secondary place the fulfillment of the Rodalies Plan that left them drafted and programmed by the previous government of the People's Party. There is therefore a deterioration of this service in Catalonia. [[The lady]] In this inquiry, Mrs Sánchez, we intend to make a diagnosis of the deficiencies that the users of the railway services in Spain live on a daily basis. I therefore ask you to assume your responsibility and go up to this rostrum to announce measures to correct this deficit and these problems because, Minister, your duty is to seek solutions, not to blame. Do not, therefore, take the floor again to make excuses from this rostrum, because no pandemic or war can be used by you as a narrative to cover up your disastrous management and derive your responsibility. In the face of the declaration of the state of alarm by the pandemic there was a logical restriction of the railway services and their frequency. However, how is it possible that 100 percent of the frequency and 100 percent of the railway services that existed prior to the state of alarm declaration have not been replaced at this stage? Don't use the COVID any more excuse and pay attention to this Parliament, which has told you repeatedly, and you already get 100 percent of the frequencies back. It is well enough to fail to fulfil your own commitments, because last year, before the union of drivers, SEMAF, and to devocate the strike of drivers you promised that by June 2022 all railway services would be replaced. Mrs. Sánchez, one more lie because, to this day, you have not fulfilled. The attack on mobility in rural areas has no limits, Mrs Sánchez, and proof of this is the gradual reduction of frequency and services in rural areas, violating public service obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, rail public service obligations are public contracts to cover the operating deficit. But do you know, Minister, what you intend to do? Eliminate them, or at least that's what they've put into the new Sustainable Mobility Act. Eliminating rail services in rural areas and eliminating or nullifying the face-to-face sale of train tickets is, of course, anything but working for the demographic challenge. Mrs Sánchez, the hotel trains - night commercial services - were also eliminated during the pandemic, and now you are not willing to put them on. Why? Why have you sold that rolling stock? Why have you rented those trains or even reformed them for other uses? The Lusitania train-hotel that joined Madrid with Salamanca and Lisbon, the night trains that joined the Galician community with Madrid or Barcelona, or even the one that joined Irun to Lisbon are fundamental services for mobility that you have arbitrarily eliminated. At the end of 2015, the then minister, Ana Pastor, signed the Renfe Employment Plan, which you are persistently failing. This is causing a collapse in the system, as the drivers retire and there is no replacement. If you do not drive the personnel input processes - and therefore the recovery of the templates - it is impossible to recover 100% of the railway frequency. It is clear, Mrs Sánchez, that you also have your priorities in the area of recruitment of staff and are now immersed in putting three new advisers into your ministry, some of them for your cabinet; yes, Minister, with a very pilgrim excuse, as is the preparation of the European Union's rotating presidency. [[Applauds]] In short, Mrs. Sánchez, more advisors for you and less drivers. Lately we have heard her talk a lot about short-term measures for users of proximity and rollers. However, do not notice the permanent deterioration of these services: cancellations, delays, breakdowns and incidents. That's what you live every day in the nearby cores. On the other hand, not only do you not comply with Renfe's Employment Plan - as I have told you - but you are also not complying with the plans of Cercanías Rodalies that the People's Party Government has programmed for you; in particular, I am referring to those of Madrid, Catalonia, Valencia, Asturias and Cantabria. I'll give you data. Do you know the degree of implementation of the investments contained in those plans? In the case of Madrid, 10%; in the case of Rodalies de Catalunya, 11%; in the case of Asturias, 11%; in the case of Valencia, 12%; and in the case of Cantabria, 13%. Now you will go back up to this rostrum to say that you are requesting the acquisition of new trains; you will go up to say it because that is the announcement, but they never arrive. Madam Minister, speaking of proximity, today I want to ask you for respect for the people of my province, the Cordobas, and it is that you should apologize to them for having made a propaganda and partisan use - only three days before the Andalusian elections - of an official trip to my land to say that you were going to respond to a historical demand, as is the service of proximity between Villa del Río and Palma del Río. He said Cordoba will have a new railway service that will unite all the municipalities of the Guadalquivir axis with the capital and its university campus. Today we already know that, in addition to going to Córdoba to campaign, you were also to lie. It is said by your own cabinet, minister, that which you are thickening now, in this document, in this writing. [[Show a document]] It clearly says that there will be no proximity in Cordoba, that no station in that environment will be rehabilitated and that, in addition to all that, you will not do any action on railway infrastructure for that purpose. Do you know what you're going to do? Give a grant to the municipalities to put shuttle buses to take passengers to the few mid-distance stations that remain in that environment today. You can't fall any lower, you can't make a bigger stubble and you can't commit a bigger manipulation. The false proximity of Cordoba, minister, is only comparable to the false AVE of Extremadura; yes, the one you invited us to the inauguration and caused the outrage of the extremists by seeing that they have a train running at 80 kilometers per hour, a train that would constantly collapse, a train that consolidates the railway isolation in the region of Extremadura. [[applause]] Yesterday we had the opportunity to see these images with the passengers sitting on the ground or standing in the cars of that train that was running between Madrid and Badajoz with an impressive delay in yesterday's day. Minister, are you going to do something or are you going to keep making excuses? Are you going to continue with that alarming rise in train ticket prices as a result of the rates that Renfe approved, those rates that you call dynamic? Because I remind you that you committed yourself to correcting this. Will it correct the massive rise of Renfe Cercanías' tariffs for the year 2022 that will take more than 500 000 tons of goods off the train, according to the commodal sector? Of course, this is not done by increasing the modal quota from the current 4% to 10%. We are very concerned about the pace of implementation of railway infrastructure, and I will give you a clear example, such as the construction of the rail corridors integrated into the Trans-European Transport Network, the Atlantic corridor and the Mediterranean corridor, which are fundamental to our connection with Europe and our territorial vertebration. The implementation of the Mediterranean corridor, according to the latest closed budget, was only 14% in 2021. In the case of the Atlantic Corridor, Minister, in August of the same year its execution did not reach 20 million euros, when you have more than 1400 million in the budget. The electrification of the Algeciras-Bobadilla stretch, common to both runners, is also stuck, just as the Sagunto-Teruel-Zaragoza stretch suffers unjustified delays. Madam Minister, are you going to keep looking for excuses or are you going to come up with a solution to this serious situation of dismantling rail mobility? Thank you very much. [[A lady Member: Very well.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorite. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lorite, first of all, I must say that I do not share at all the situation you have described, because it does not correspond to reality. To focus the debate, I will offer you some important data that I believe will help you to be aware of how far you are from reality and how those perceptions that you alluded to are only yours. I will give you a data on the average satisfaction with rail services in Spain. They have a score of 7.6, a remarkable one, right in the EU average; this in user surveys. As far as proximity is concerned - since you were also talking about the incidences in punctuality and reliability - the average punctuality in Spain is 96.7%, above capitals such as Paris, London or Brussels. In fact, we have seven cores among the ten most punctual in Europe, and nine among the twenty most punctual in all of Europe; and all this despite its disastrous management between 2012 and 2018. Moreover, speaking in this way, you do not exactly help our railway model, which, far from what the People's Party thinks, is an example in the international rail context and is thus recognised, Mr Lorite. We are working on important projects in the United States, Saudi Arabia and other countries that you also know but that you always avoid mentioning, which, of course, credit this recognition of our rail system and how we have been able to improve it, especially in recent years. Of course there are aspects to be improved and we are working on that, but I also insist that there are issues that come from afar; issues that you obviously do, but that I will allow myself to remind you, as you were able to do when you were in the Government and did not do. Therefore, their arguments are so poor and so gross that no one believes them. When we arrived at the government in 2018, we found ourselves with an important lack of strategic planning. The indicative strategy should have been adopted by December 2016. Luckily, we are now finalizing your approval, but it should have been approved before 2016, when you were ruling. They also generated false expectations for the citizens, coming to announce in 2015 that they would put in service 1000 new kilometers of high speed, among them the sections that reached Burgos, Murcia and Granada, between Plasencia and Badajoz and also the variant of Pajares. With great effort we have managed to put in service the Granada and Burgos, but seven years later we continue to work to finish Murcia, Extremadura and Pajares. Can you tell me that there was real in that announcement they made in 2015 saying they would put 1500 kilometers of high speed in service on those stretches, when we're still working on them? Renfe also did not have a strategic plan to deal with the new liberalisation scenario, which was imminent, and we had to make this plan for the operator. Nor was the contract signed for the provision of services declared as public service obligations, those of which you spoke. It was announced - that's right - since December 2017, but by June 2018 it wasn't even going through. It was this Government that carried out the processing of this new contract, which allowed, among other things, the start of the purchase of new trains. I remind you in this regard that the People's Party Government did not acquire a single train to increase the fleet of trains from near and mid-distance, nor a single train for near and mid-distance! As a contrast to all this, our Government, of course, firmly believes in the railways and is clearly committed to this means of transport. We do so out of conviction, because it is the most sustainable means of transport and the one that will help us most with decarbonisation, which is absolutely essential in a climate emergency and energy crisis scenario, and, of course, because we want to help the millions of workers and students who need rail transport in their daily mobility. We are giving unprecedented impetus to the budget. In the budgets of the year 2023 we allocate about 8 billion euros. Do you know how much you allocated when you were ruling on the last budget of the People's Party? They allocated 4310 million euros, 46% less to be exact. But a fact that is even more important than these figures is that we can say that we allocate about 3.5 billion euros to conventional railways and neighbourhoods, for the second consecutive year rather than to high speed - in this case, 28% more - which is a reflection of our support and our commitment to daily mobility. And don't tell me about the closeness plans your government launched. It is true that you presented five close-up plans at eight years' notice, that of Catalonia, Cantabria, Asturias, Valencia and Madrid, with a total investment that exceeds 11.5 billion euros for those eight years. Do you know how much your Government allocates to investment in neighbourhoods each year, even in spite of those forecasts, plans and commitments? It goes to 576 million for all of Spain, that is, even if they allocate 100% of the resources to these plans - which is impossible, because it would neglect the rest of the investments in the rest of our country's cores - it would take twenty years to finish them. And you said you'd be on the move in eight years. Was that credible, Mr. Lorite? As I said before, we have made progress in the most ambitious programme of recent decades for the renewal of the public service fleet, with tenders worth more than EUR 3500 million, which will allow us to renew 50% of the trains providing services. I remind you that your Government did not acquire a single train to increase the fleet of trains from nearby and not from half a distance. We have also put into operation an ambitious process of incorporating new drivers, which is bearing fruit. Despite the limitations of the pandemic - because there have been limitations by the pandemic - we now have about 5900 drivers in the workforce. I assure you that this also did not help the short-term vision of economic policy during the People's Party government with regard to replacement rates, because these are issues that are certainly difficult to bring forward, because I also remind you of your policy of replacement rates. He talks about the need to recover the services that had to be reduced as a result of the health crisis, and we absolutely agree on that. For a long time, the supply has been largely restored with regard to the pre-pandemic situation, but Renfe's will is to continue to complete the re-establishment of that small part of the services that are not yet operational as this new driving staff is being incorporated, which, as he told them, is completing the training and enabling processes. For example, in your land, in September of this year we have completed - you will also know - the replacement of the trains of half distance between Malaga and Seville, as well as the entire offer of the half distance in the provinces of Jaén, Cadiz and Córdoba, between Antequera and Algeciras and all services of proximity in the cores of Seville and Cadiz. At this time we have not only replaced most of the services, but we have also put in place new rail services: the high-speed service in Elche-Orihuela, Galicia, Burgos and the first phase of the high-speed service in Extremadura, as well as the direct Avants between Malaga and Granada. Yes, we have put in service the first phase of the high speed to Extremadura. It is true that there are incidents; from what you mentioned yesterday, investigations have already begun to find out what happened and correct that and all the incidents that occur in that line and in any other of the railway system. We have also put in place the new fertilizers, we have put in place the gratuitousness of the vicinity, the rolling stock, the medium distance and the discounts of 50% in Avant and on some high speed journeys. In the face of your repeated argument of higher rates and higher prices, I would like to remind you of the gratuitousness of the services of proximity, rolling stock, medium distance and the discounts that we have also introduced in some high-speed services. That is our bet, the Government's bet, to promote rail transport and especially public services of proximity. And that has been accompanied by a great deal of effort on the part of Renfe and the Ministry, an effort that we will continue to make to continue to benefit passengers who have obtained more than 1 900 000 free near- and mid-distance fertilizers and those almost 27,000 passengers who have obtained Avant fertilizers. Since the announcement by the President of the Government, I believe that this has been shown to be a measure of success, despite the alarmist and catastrophic voices of the People's Party that we were not going to be able to manage the issue of those fertilizers that we were going to collapse the system. We have achieved this and, apart from what you had hoped, we have also achieved the confidence of the users despite their vote against this measure. And we will continue to work to promote quality mobility, which responds to the needs of the rural environment, yes, also those of the rural environment. We are taking care of them with new innovative, pioneering projects that are of course trying to give the best response to citizens. The train is the most sustainable and efficient means, but it is not when we move empty trains, and we care about giving the best mobility response to users. We have that commitment and we would like to have on some occasion some proposal from the People's Party that is minimally constructive, but I think we will fail in the attempt. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, have you ever been on a train? I am saying this because we already know that your partner, Minister Llop, is ever going by subway, but we do not know if you are frequenting railway services. If you frequented the railway services, you would have noticed the mess that occurs on the platforms of the stations and you could see those cancellations, those breakdowns and those incidents to which I referred earlier. You seem to live outside that reality. We are going up to the rostrum to talk about data and give us a survey that Mr Tezanos has probably prepared, because it does not correspond to reality. This level of satisfaction does not exist among users of rail services in Spain. What the users of the railway services comment is that every day is more expensive, that every day there are fewer railway services, that every day there are fewer frequencies, that every day the trains are delayed more, that every day there would be more damage and that there are more and more incidents. [[Applauds]] As you will understand, users who were sitting on the ground yesterday, after a considerable train delay, do not think exactly as you do with regard to rail services. But not only can we talk about the train of shame, the extreme train, but I will give you a data of half a distance; in this case, not yesterday, but today, in particular, Renfe Galicia and the Atlantic axis. You talk about the middle and working classes that go to a large extent to work by train, in railway services. For today from the city of Vigo had to have left a train at 6:40 in the morning to reach La Coruña at 8:13 minutes. That train left forty-five minutes late, which has created a very serious problem for each and every worker travelling on it. But the problem is not just that, the problem is that Renfe has not taken care of anything at all or put them on alternative transport or given any kind of explanation as to that delay. Do you consider that a good rail service? Do you consider that to be at an optimal level of efficiency and efficiency? It seems to me a lie that, after four and a half years of government, you are coming here to make excuses like the ones you put us on this morning. In short, you have come, as you always do, to derive responsibility. Sometimes it's the previous government, sometimes it's the pandemic, sometimes it's the Ukraine war, but the case is that you never take any responsibility for anything at all. [[Applauds]] Do an exercise, because I only want you to answer one question in your reply. Look at what rail services were like in May 2018 and simply, Mrs Sánchez, answer: are rail services today in a better situation than at that time or in a worse situation than at that time? The deterioration is progressive and has a cause: that you are negligent in terms of management. They are carrying out a disastrous management of railway services in this country and, of course, it is of no use for you to come up here, not to assume your responsibility and to blame to the right and wrong. As far as budget implementation is concerned, I think you should be careful and not talk about it after what we have seen you do with the huge European funds. They are unable to implement the budget not only in the purchase of rolling stock, but, as I said earlier, in the implementation of basic and fundamental infrastructures such as the Mediterranean rail corridor and the Atlantic rail corridor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorite. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. For your peace of mind, Mr. Lorite, yes, I'm on the train. I do it often and, unlike what happens to your partner, I do know where to plug the cable to charge the mobile. I do know. [[Applauds]] It's very easy, it's very intuitive. If you've ever been on the train, you'll find it easy. As for the data and the survey that you doubted - because I asked who that survey was from - I will tell you that it is data that is taken from the Eurobarometer of the European Commission. I understand that this from the European Commission is often alien to the People's Party, but I would like to reassure you that part of an objective Eurobarometer survey of the European Commission that compares us to the main European capitals and, as I said before, gives us an average of remarkable score and places us above many European capitals in terms of reliability and punctuality. It will seem to you that the arguments that I give you are not eloquent, but they are not arguments, they are data, they are realities, they are investments that are being implemented and that contrast with what you did when you ruled; I think it is a good exercise to make the contrast between what this government is doing and what you did when you ruled the People's Party government. I insist that you have halved the investment in the rail system over the past six years, that you have not fulfilled the commitments or strategic planning of the infrastructure or the strategic planning that the operator had to make. Not only do they not plan, but they also do not execute, but we are doing both, planning and execution. We would like to run a lot more in the execution, but neither can we forget or not to take into account that we have spent a few years in which first the pandemic and then the rising prices resulting from the crisis in Ukraine are influencing the execution that we are carrying out. Still, we are fulfilling our commitments. And we are also meeting the commitments regarding the implementation of European funds. Since you referred to this, I want to say that of the funds managed by this ministry - a quarter of the more than EUR 16 billion - we have mobilised around 75%. We are doing it directly and we are doing it also through transfers to the autonomous communities and to the municipalities; autonomous communities, some governed by the People's Party - for example, Andalusia - which I would ask to be a little more hasty in carrying out and taking out the calls, because there are many citizens waiting for them. We do not know why some communities governed by the People's Party are not yet taking out these calls. I would therefore also ask you to do the same exercise, calling for the responsibility of the presidents of the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party to implement the funds urgently. We are fulfilling that and we are also fulfilling our commitments regarding the implementation of the European corridors, the Mediterranean corridor and the Atlantic corridor. When you were ruling, there was no rigorous or comprehensive planning of which sections had to be prioritized. They were running without control, arbitrarily. Since 2018, as far as the Mediterranean corridor is concerned, we have put in service more than 233 kilometers, that new infrastructure with the arrival of the AVE to Granada, the Alcudia-Moixent stretch, the variant of Vandellós, the AVE Elche-Orihuela. As for the Atlantic Corridor, to which you also referred, we have completed the AVE to Burgos and the first phase also of Plasencia-Cáceres-Mérida-Badajoz. And we're still working. In the budget of 2023 we allocated more than EUR 3300 million to the corridors. So stop lying, Mr. Lorite. I think you're wrong many times, even lies. Of course, do not say that this Government has abandoned rail services, because that is an absolute lie and a defachability. We will continue to work to ensure good service to citizens and to fill their incompetence and inefficiency during the years of the People's Party government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u173	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u174	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the Government's criteria for progress in the decarbonisation of industry in Spain and, in particular, with regard to Solvay. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u175	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a month since the inquiry was lodged with the Minister of Industry about the Government's criteria for progress in the decarbonisation of Spain's industry in general and, in particular, with regard to Solvay. A month is not the usual and I hope that some of your ladies and gentlemen will still remember what the matter was about. The minister, in her response to the inquiry, advanced a series of measures with the intention of the executive in this matter and, now, in line with the minister's response, we are debating a motion with three points. The first is to publish the call for the PERTE decarbonisation of industry, which is included in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, before the end of the year, so that resources can be in the hands of companies in the first quarter of 2023. For the time being, the Energy Contingency Plan has been approved on the 10th, with measure 44 for the decarbonisation PERTE, but it still has to go to the Council of Ministers and then make the call for the bases so that companies can present their projects and be prepared for the first quarter. I mean, we're doing very well. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u176	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u177	Secondly, publish the regulation of energy certificates before the end of the year and have flexibility for their implementation in the industry. It is also key, and after hearing the minister we trust that she will arrive soon. The third question is the so-called aid under the specific compensation scheme for cogeneration producers, i.e. installations with various energy sources, both for new installations and for the modernisation of existing ones. We ask that these auctions be launched before the end of the year. The last one is from July 2017. They are investment auctions, which must not be confused with the auctions that are made for the purchase of own energy. What is going well - it is true - is the auctions of the economic regime of renewable energies; in fact, the next one is scheduled for day 22. That is very good, but we cannot underestimate cogeneration, which also has other virtues, such as taking advantage of waste, which are key to what we call a circular economy. In Cantabria and Spain there are currently many projects for the energy transition. Solvay is one of those projects, and we've brought him here not only because of his importance to Cantabria and Catalonia, where Martorell is, and I'm with the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, and right now they're waiting for this help. The project aims to replace half of coal consumption with a waste-derived fuel boiler - called the CDR - to reduce CO2 emissions by 150,000 tonnes per year, with an investment of nearly 200 million euros. In the interpellation I explained it in more detail and I am not going to develop it here today. What is clear is that, after these years of chained crises, of COVID, the supply chain, energy in general, gas, Ukraine, inflation, etc., it has been seen that it is essential to have security in those sectors that can be considered strategic for the national economy. And this is not a whim, because to compete on the international market, this aid is needed. In addition, we must respond to the European funds made available to our country and increasingly urgently take more action against climate change. We all know that there are many companies that are here today but that tomorrow they can leave, and as they have more favourable conditions they will. The Government of Cantabria also collaborates with the Ministry of Ecological Transition by contributing to the contingency plan of the autonomous community itself and, in particular, in two blocks, one for energy saving and one for support for renewables. And I take advantage of this decarbonisation intervention to stress that in Cantabria there have been desolating fires these days, and I say this here because we are giving little importance to the decarbonisation of forest fires. When we talk about climate change, we seem to forget that there are numerous reports that analyse greenhouse gas emissions associated with these forest fires. According to some reports, such as Greenpeace, they account for twice as much of the CO2 emissions generated by the production of the fossil fuel industry across Europe. Another example from two American universities in the United States and the Netherlands concludes that gross carbon emissions from fires amount to 25% of total fossil fuel emissions. In Spain there are calculations, mainly associated with catastrophic years, and one of them is from 2006 says that there were 155 000 hectares calcined. According to a study of researchers from the University of Vigo, only the area calcined this year in Pontevedra was 40,900 hectares, which emitted 1.7 million tons of CO2 to the atmosphere. To give us an idea of this magnitude, it is what issued for two months the largest thermal power plant in the country, that of As Pontes, or what comes out of the 400,000-car exhaust pipes. But in addition to carbon dioxide pollution, they destroy forests for a long time, which are precisely those that absorb CO2 to release oxygen. According to the World Wildlife Foundation, in 2019 they threw 7800 million tons, twenty-five times more than that emitted by all of Spain, besides producing tragedies, animal deaths, etc. This goes further, it's a vicious circle: more heat, more fires; more fires, more heat. I believe that a determined policy of prevention is necessary. I return to the subject of industry. We currently have a chaotic situation in energy auctions. As an example I will tell you that some companies in Cantabria are asking you to give them a share of renewable energies, which are cheaper, and a percentage that has a fixed price. The situation is really very complicated. Despite this, we have to make progress on structural measures. In short, today we raise three fundamental issues, and all need an impetus. As tomorrow is to be voted on, I would like to end by saying that we hope that this motion will be adopted. We will study the amendments carefully in order to arrive at a realistic text that complies with the principles that we almost all share, but we believe that it is very necessary...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u178	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u179	... a resolution of this Congress - term - so that the Government has a record of what the position of this House is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Castillo López, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u181	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Mazón, you will always find the People's Party defending any measure that guarantees the viability of our country's industry and, therefore, of the sugarcane industry, but the motion put forward by the Regionalist Party proposes in a lukewarm manner three measures which, being positive, are incomplete, do not concretely or guarantee the viability of the whole energy intensive industry, heat-intensive and electro-intensive. Aid to Solvay is important and must be supported, but you do not take advantage of a golden opportunity to demand a radical change in the government's policy regarding the energy transition in general and the energy-consuming industry in particular. Spain has a serious problem with the energy costs of the giants of the metallurgy, chemical and steel industries and other smaller problems, but equally important, such as those of ceramics, plastics, trash or the agri-food industry, key elements of our economy that can lead us to a relocation of companies, to a loss of investment and employment. And all this is partly a consequence of the painful management that the current government has carried out, with Minister Teresa Ribera at the head, because the energy transition in Spain is being made under ideological postulates and not under rational criteria. Cantabria, in addition to the problem of decarbonisation that you raise for Solvay, which is our flagship ship, needs also to support its electro-intensive sector, which is the basis of the industrial activity of our region and which is associated with suppliers, logistics and maintenance activities, among other sectors. To help Solvay, Ferroatlantica, Global or Reinosa Forgings and Castings it is necessary to work seriously, Mr. Mazón. Let us stop staging or dramatizing in this room and dialogue with the autonomous communities and take as a model the plans authorised by the European Commission for other Member States. What improvements do we propose to you in the three points you have detailed? If it is necessary to publish a PERTE call on the decarbonisation of industry, it is necessary for this to be approved in the Council of Ministers. We need time-frames, programmes to push forward the framework of real and effective co-governance. With regard to the regulation of energy saving certificates, we believe that the industrial sector should be excluded from any type of energy saving obligation, given the deterioration in the evolution of electricity and gas consumption that is being produced, establishing instead recommendations and bonuses for certain voluntary savings objectives. Auctions for cogeneration are one of the points that, as you will well know, the People's Party demands, but we believe that it is necessary to establish a retributive framework that facilitates repotence and overpowering. And why not update the pay parameters to the current energy reality. Does it not surprise you, Your Honor, that cogeneration has not been massively targeted at the top of the gas? Why do you think cogeneration hasn't been targeted at that gas top? Ask him. What new measures do we present to you as necessary for our region and also for Spain? Apply to the electricity or heat intensive industry or to both aid schemes similar to those approved in other Member States such as Germany or Finland, increasing the percentage of revenues from CO2 emissions auctions. To regulate, by means of a royal decree, the emergency law and, subsequently, by means of a bill, the figure of the hyperintensive consumer. And here we ask you a question, Mr Mazón: have you tabled any amendments to the general state budgets for the industry of our country and that of Cantabria? No, you have not tabled any amendments on this. The People's Party has tabled an amendment adding a new additional provision for precisely this, to ensure the maintenance of the activity of the electro-intensive and also of the intensive gas companies and, ultimately, to solve the problems generated by the status of electro-intensive consumers. It is not possible to help companies with high electrical consumption by destroying the electro-intensive sector and the hyper-intensive sector. We cannot help Alcoa or Arcelor, outside of Cantabria, or GSV, Ferroatlantica and Reinosa Forgings and Castings without solving the issue of the status of the electro-intensive. The last step - I conclude, President - that we propose to you is to take urgently all the necessary actions for the effective implementation of the measures of the Royal Decree Law 6/2022, for the bonuses and exemptions in the costs of tolling and transport and the disbursement to companies of amounts additional to those budgeted.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u182	Mrs. Castillo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u183	I'm on my way, President. Mr. Mazón, you know that our contributions are good for Cantabria and, as you and I want our region, I hope you will be happy to include them in your proposal. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castillo. I also have the floor for the Socialist Group's defence of its amendment, Mr Soler Mur.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mazón brings to the House a motion on the situation of Solvay and through it he proposes support for the electro-intensive industry and decarbonisation. I want to say, first of all, that this is a good time to take stock of the work being done by the Spanish Government from the very beginning to support the electro-intensive industry. The first step was to reduce VAT on electricity from 21 % to 10 %. Secondly, the electricity production value tax, which is 7 %, was suspended and then the electricity tax was lowered from 5,11 % to 0,5 %. Subsequently, the Government also worked to ensure that the electro-intensive companies had unique support through the status of the electro-intensive consumer, and this year's budget includes €91 million for them, so that they have a legal and economic framework that will enable them to mitigate the adverse effects of high energy costs. A commitment has also been made to increase support to businesses due to indirect costs of CO2 emissions, and is proposed for this year in the budget of EUR 244 million, 65 more than in the previous year. The electricity bill has been affected, reducing 80 % - 80- of the costs of tolls for access to energy distribution and transport networks. Intensive gas companies have been supported with EUR 125 million in direct aid. Thanks to Spain's influence in the European Union, Iberian exceptionality has also been achieved, something which we have achieved by force of this government within the Union: the price of gas has risen in the electricity bill. This has meant that all Spaniards and Spaniards have already saved EUR 2300 million on the electricity bill. [[Applauds]] In addition, it continues to bet on the future, with an accelerated and extraordinary procedure for the development of renewable energies. Therefore, this is a government that is truly committed to everything that involves an effort for transition and a support to industry that has a high energy cost. Of course, it is also committed to this decarbonisation PERTE, which involves decarbonisation of industry, less costs in CO2 emissions, less costs also for all companies that have to do this process over the next few years, because they also consume less fossil fuels, and the use of our waste. I must say, Mr Mazón, that there is a clear commitment from this Government, not only to the electro-intensive industry in general, but to that of Cantabria. You know that 69 million euros have been given to sixty-seven industrial plants in Cantabria. You know perfectly well that you have also supported yourself with 11.3 million euros to thirteen companies in Cantabria, one of them Solvay, with 1.27 million euros. Also in CO2 emissions, only for companies in Cantabria, fifteen companies have benefited from €3 million. In research, development and innovation for decarbonisation, two companies from Cantabria have received 1.7 million euros and a single company cantabra has received for the support of the solvency of strategic companies 27 million - a company from Reinosa, which, in addition, you know well -. The commitment of this Government is therefore firm. But the People's Party, which comes here to teach us lessons and accuses your motion of lukewarmness, Mr. Mazón, has not been lukewarm, but really icy with the support of industry, because they did not have a Ministry of Industry when they ruled, because they set a sun tax to tax and curb the development of renewables, because they also put a green cent for steam production through the use of gas. In short, the People's Party government never gambled for the electro-intensive industry or the transition process, and now they come here to call for acceleration and more support for our industry. When it has really been supported and when a decarbonisation strategy has been generated it has been with the Socialist Party government. [[Applauds]] When an integrated energy and climate plan has been adopted, it has been with the Socialist Party Government. [[Applauds]] When a law of climate change and energy transition has been made, it has been with the Socialist Party. And I can assure you, Mr. Mazón, that the decarbonisation part will be approved by the end of the year. The rules governing energy saving certificates will also be adopted and cogeneration auctions will be issued as soon as possible, because the Socialist Party Government does believe in reindustrialisation and a just, digital, green transition that is possible as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u186	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u187	Thank you, President. Mr. Mazón, it seems to us a correct motion, and I tell you that we will support it. Industry has been the economic sector that has made the most efforts to improve its consumption levels and energy efficiency ratios, and has also managed to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions levels. Although we are in a very complex environment, it is still necessary to move towards decarbonisation, but without jeopardising their external competitiveness, an important challenge, since the production processes of each sector are complex and, of course, very diverse. I very much agree, Mr Mazón, with the need to ensure industrial productive capacities in the most strategic sectors, not only because they play a key role in the implementation of the JEP, as you say, but also in economic development and employment. Because the objective of decarbonisation is also an opportunity for technological and industrial development, as it not only drives existing capacities, but will also generate new ones. So we in Euskadi have launched the Basque Net Zero Industrial Super Cluster initiative to identify the industrial processes with the highest energy consumption of five priority industrial subsectors, to identify possible technologies and measures in the reduction of CO2 emissions associated with energy consumption in that process, to evaluate that current or potential value chain for the development and supply of the technologies and measures identified and to define possible pilot projects and demonstration projects for the application of technological solutions in the industrial processes analyzed. With regard to the small amount of his motion, we agree that the decarbonisation PART should be accelerated, and it is also key in a context such as that in which we are alert to the shortage of gas and its price in which energy consumption needs to be optimised. But the most important thing of this and other PERTE as key instruments in reindustrialization is not so much their speed, but that they are well designed, so that they can be implemented, so that they can be met in the medium and long term and, most importantly, so that they are designed also according to the context in which we are living and with a constructive dialogue between the sectors and the autonomous communities and the Government to ensure that these projects are adequate to the needs and strengths, well-sized projects that can be implemented and implemented, and not that we have to see empty tenders or projects that cannot be implemented or partially implemented. As far as the cogeneration auctions are concerned, he is quite right, too, because the truth is that we are actually witnessing repeated announcements, but they have not just been made. But the most important thing is that the cogenerations are immersed in many uncertainties. We all know the stops that took place in the summer, which are being resolved, but with certain patches. We believe that cogeneration needs, once and for all, adequate regulation of the remuneration for the operation, so that the installations have a remuneration framework for those regulated in Article 14 of the Electricity Act, with the aim of ensuring that fuel costs are covered through the remuneration for the operation, as I have said, in order to be able to compete in equivalent terms with other technologies. It is therefore necessary to review definitively the remuneration for the operation, which is not sufficient or adequate at present as a result of the application of the Henry Hub price index or the desirability of adjusting the reference value to that of the free allocation of CO2 to its real values, because, in view of the so much volatility in prices, this has an impact on production and economic activity. Therefore, the cogenerations lack legal certainty, and that is why we believe that an effective solution is needed for them, as well as, as you say, approving the outstanding salaries as well. Finally, it is true that the Government has put in place industry-specific measures, but perhaps some should be reviewed. For example, the status of electro-intensives or the strengthening of the CO2 compensation mechanism, which this group also requested and was included in the climate change law to reach the 25% that allowed Europe or more, because we are already seeing that some countries such as Germany, for example, are going to go beyond this percentage because they have had Europe's authorisation. Reindustrialisation is necessary and my group will, of course, support all initiatives in this direction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u189	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the PRC brings us a motion whose original inquiry referred to a particular company, Solvay. It is striking - I say striking because I think it is important to highlight - that there are still companies - that the Sánchez government does not finish seeing it - that they trust cogeneration as a contribution to their energy in order to be able to produce. I think it is important for the government to see that cogeneration is very important for the energy transformation that we need to achieve and achieve that 100% renewable target. I say this because in this process of energy transition the government always - always - leaves behind the cogeneration sector. Just a week after the Government finally decided to address the citizens' claim since June, more than half of the Spanish cogeneration has been supported by the exception allowed by Royal Decree 17/2022. Cogeneration has always been subjected by this Government to terrible uncertainty and to changes or unforeseen events, causing the closure of many cogeneration plants this summer. The auction, which was announced in December 2021, did not arrive until last Tuesday, and so we could set many more examples. This clearly demonstrates that this Ministry of Industry and the Ministry for the Ecological Transition have not supported the cogeneration sector. We believe that it is important to manifest - and this was also defined by the Director General of ACOGEN - that entering into this royal decree, this temporary solution, is a blind choice. The Iberian mechanism is fixed with Spain's prices, which have fallen considerably, but gas contracts for generators are often referred to the Dutch price. That is why we believe that this Government should continue to bet on cogeneration, and I believe that today we should also remember the data I gave last week when the royal decree was debated. There are about six hundred cogeneration plants associated with companies in many sectors. Cogeneration, energy generation, supports 20% of Spain's gross industrial product, as well as 11% of electricity generation and 20% of gas consumption. What do we see in this motion? That yes, that really stays a little short, but seeing Mr Soler in his speech, I understand that what they want to do is to negotiate the next General Budgets of the State. That's why I'm getting my chest out of everything that's spilling over with Cantabria, but what we've just seen has been a negotiation in Congress Hall itself. But we don't think it's bad, we think cogeneration needs much more. Citizens have always proposed - and so we have registered an amendment in the General State Budgets - that there be a specific PETE for cogeneration. For what? So that we can make this energy transition and rely on renewables, green hydrogen and make it much easier for the industrial sector. Mr Soler was talking about the fact that the People's Party had no minister of industry, but the sector was expecting this minister of industry. A sector which is totally abandoned, as I say, and which really hopes that it will be able to impose aid for this sector in the face of the Ecological Transition. With regard to the LOSS, we believe that this week we have seen that 70% of the funds allocated to the electric car in the first PART have not reached the companies. What's that supposed to mean? It is a clear example of the poor management that this Government is doing with those strategic plans that are vital to the recovery of our country and to strengthening the industrial sector of our country. And why aren't they coming? Because we believe that there are insufficient resources to process all the files that want access to these funds. That is why we have already put forward a non-legislative proposal to strengthen the personnel dedicated to the processing of all these administrative dossiers relating to decarbonisation which is paralyzed in bottlenecks. This motion is positive, and although it is short, we will support it, because we believe that the cogeneration sector and the industrial sector need much more. As this government does not take clear action for the industry, we will have to do so for the rest of the parties. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u190	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u191	Good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. They will allow me before I begin that as a Democrat, as a progressive and also as a person living in a country, Galicia, linked to the lusophony, expresses the satisfaction and relief that this weekend we have seen how a process and a victory in Brazil by a president, President Lula, has been given with complete democratic normality. I think it's fair to say it from here because this House shut up when Brazil fell into democratic hell in 2016, with the lawfare against Dilma Rousseff, and many here, in this House, shut up. Therefore, with the desire that all actors respect the democratic outcome in Brazil, I would like to send congratulations to the Brazilian people, congratulations to Brazilian democracy and congratulations to President Lula. [[Applauds]] Mr Mazón brings here today a motion on an absolutely fundamental issue of our productive fabric, such as the electro-intensive industry, which has played, and, above all, has to play, a fundamental role in our industrial production. This is the case of Solvay, but also that of many other metallurgical and chemical steel companies, which supply basic intermediate consumptions for the production of much of the final products generated by our industry, both for export and for the consumption and supply of the internal market. These are industries where, of course, energy expenditure accounts for more than half of the costs of their cost structure. In this context, in which we are seeking the synthesis between transition and reindustrialisation of our country, but also in which there is a very difficult situation with a war and with the increase and famine of energy, these companies are suffering a very complicated situation not only in our country, but in the whole of the European Union. Faced with this situation, the Government has developed a series of measures throughout the legislature to alleviate the impact of the energy crisis and the volatility of energy prices. Among them, we can highlight the strengthening of the CO2 compensation mechanism, the compensation of electrical system charges, the new line of support for industrial R & D, innovation and sustainability, or the approval, often demanded - of course, much remains - of the status of the electrointensive consumer that is approved, beyond everything that remains ahead. In any case, our parliamentary group cannot ignore, when we talk about the electro-intensive industry, the need to coordinate the competitiveness of our industry with the urgency of the ecological transition that we must carry out. Both issues must go hand in hand, they must go into a synthesis, because otherwise, there is no horizon for our industry, nor in general for the whole of our economy. It is necessary to focus on the transformation of our energy mix in order to abandon the most polluting technologies, precisely those that greatly increase the prices of our electricity. Decarbonising our industrial sector is not an excuse, it is a condition for having the possibility to reduce energy costs once and for all. This is precisely what the Industrial Decarbonisation PART is addressing, as you know, in the final preparation stage of the Council of Ministers. With this, this Government intends to address the financing of investments aimed at decarbonizing our industrial enterprises, paying lower CO2 emissions and lower consumption of fossil fuels and ultimately lower external energy dependence. On the part of our parliamentary group, we make it clear that all aid to industry must ensure positive social impacts, promoting quality employment, generating synergies in local economies and ensuring the environmental sustainability of actions. The maintenance and implementation of aid by undertakings must always be conditional on the fulfilment of objectives and the maintenance of medium- and long-term commitments in these areas. The model towards which we must move must prioritize industrial energy sovereignty by deepening the resilience and rationalization of the interdependency relations between territories, and by following criteria of ecological, environmental, economic and social sustainability. I also believe that it can be said that this government has taken a certain 180-degree turn in industrial policy - it must be remembered that the People's Party cut the economic allocations on these issues by 32 % - and that the measures put in place by the government are on this path, despite the right-wing opposition to European funds, the PARTY and also to the general state budgets. We therefore believe that this is the way forward and that this Government must continue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u193	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Mazón rightly points out in his motion, the relevance of the Solvay Chemical industrial complex in Torrelavega, which makes it a key agent within the productive fabric of Cantabria, is well known. Mr. Mazón also pointed out in his speech that Solvay has designed the start-up of an energy production plant from alternative fuels, which will replace the current coal. Well, what Mr Masones does not explain is that the Cantabria government had this project on the table more than three years ago, that it lost the cart of the European decarbonisation funds, which other companies were able to benefit from, and that it took more than two years to process the file and get all the reports required by Cantabria's regulations for these procedures. Of course, it is curious because the Cantabria government demands too many reports. I remember - to see how they act - a director general who, when he had been a director for a year and a half, said to his officials: I have been a year and a half and you have never prepared a decree or rule for me to take to the Governing Council and regulate something. And they asked, "What do you want us to do?" Whatever may be within our competence and, above all, one thing, that we have to issue a mandatory report on something - he replied -. That is the level, that is what is in the Community of Cantabria, and Mr. Mazón knows him, who has been a counselor just like me. It turns out that a company arrived - it has passed very recently, barely three years ago - Santander Coated Solutions, to create eight hundred jobs, already had the land and had spent a million euros to rotate, because when it had been waiting two years for it to finish informing the last general address that it had to do, it went to León and in three months it built, instead of Santander Quoted Solution, León Quoted Solution. We have lost eight hundred jobs, because the Cantabria Government does not know how to process files. It has a decadent industrial fabric, because they have at the head of the Industry Council a lord of the Regionalist Party who is a Latin teacher and who is more dedicated to tourism. By the way, in this area of tourism there are complaints from the unions - which is already difficult that Workers' Commissions denounced the cantabria socialist regional party - that they have placed all the friends and related to the party, which is known as low-intensity corruption. Well, that's the regional socialist party in Cantabria. [[Applauds]] That's right, Revilla goes on television, she wants to set an example of everything, of governance and so on. However, Mr Revilla, for those who do not know, presides over the Autonomous Community of Cantabria, but does not govern, lets do it. There is a tentade there that, by the way, whenever there is a committee of inquiry in Parliament and they quote it, it immediately says: I know nothing; that, my adviser. Just like when he was caught with the cigar on the terrace at the time that he himself had banned smoking, he said: I don't smoke, I don't know anything. [[Applauds]] Well, unfortunately, that's the reality of Cantabria. They don't have industrial plans, they don't have plans for livestock. The truth is that it is a pity this region - for those who know it and those who have known it in other times - because they can see how the whole Besaya area is, which is precisely where the Solvay factory is located; how Torrelavega is, which we can describe as the capital of Besaya and which had a great trade until twenty years ago, many of them better shops than those of Santander, which is the capital, and now it's hard to pass there, it's all closed, everything is local for rent, for sale, there is nothing of trade. Why? Because this was an industrial zone and the whole industry is abandoned, paralyzed. My group will always support everything that is necessary to reactivate the industry. Do not think that we are the ogres who will oppose all sensible measures. Everything that is necessary and enters within reasonable possibilities we will support it. What we are not going to support is those measures derived from those radical ecological mantras that you have generated, derived from that new climate religion. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u194	Thank you very much, Mr Del Valle. Mr Mazón, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u195	We're negotiating a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u196	All right, thank you very much. As soon as they have it, they will send it to the Bureau. - the Parliamentary Group on the contribution of the Government to a just transition fund for the Catalan nuclear zones. [[File number 173/000175]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u197	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the Government's contribution to a just transition fund for the Catalan nuclear zones. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u198	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. My group presents today in this plenary a motion resulting from urgent questioning, on the Government's contribution to a just transition fund for the Catalan nuclear zones. In Catalonia, the most nuclearized territory of the Spanish State, in view of a timetable for the closure of power stations already agreed between the Government and the companies, we continue with concern the announced end of the useful life of these power stations, namely that of the power stations of Ascó, Vandellòs and also Cofrentes. To date, no Spanish Government has submitted a nuclear transition or fair transition plan for these areas. It should be recalled that competition in nuclear matters is the responsibility of the State and, consequently, all the millions of euros that power stations generate in taxes are collected by the Spanish Government. To put the figures on the table, the fund for the financing of the activities of the General Plan for Radioactive Waste collected EUR 468 million in 2020 in the form of a public non-tax benefit. We believe that it is essential to provide the necessary funding for the management of radioactive waste and the future dismantling of nuclear facilities, but it is also essential to provide a fund to reorient local economies, which currently depend largely on the activity generated by nuclear power plants. The other day at Vice President Ribera's interrogation, I already commented on the following, but I return to it. To date, the Ministry has sixteen developing agreements that affect eight autonomous communities and 184 municipalities throughout the State. However, of the €550 million budgeted for fair transition agreements, the Catalan municipalities affected by this closing schedule do not receive a euro, zero euros. In recent years, the PP and PSOE governments have not only not foreseen or announced any transitional plans in the face of the closure of the Catalan nuclear power plants, but have, through the Constitutional Court, vetoed the Government of Catalonia to implement a nuclear tax to create a fund that would enable action to be taken in the face of the closure. Therefore, given the inaction of the Spanish Government, in January 2015, the Generalitat de Catalunya, at Esquerra's proposal, is pushing for the creation of two environmental taxes so that 10% of the revenue collected will have an impact on the municipalities located in these areas. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court, at the request of the PP government, declared that tax unconstitutional in April 2016. Subsequently, the Generalitat continued with its objective and created a tax with which to allocate 20%, which the PP also sent to the Constitutional Court and which maintained the government of the PSOE. Finally, in the third attempt, the Law on tax measures for 2022 amended Article 8, which allocates 20% of the revenues collected from nuclear power plants to provide the Catalan nuclear transition fund. Therefore, seven years after the first attempt, the Generalitat de Catalunya will contribute with this fund 24 million euros to the nuclear zones of Ascó and Vandellòs until its closure, a endowment of 24 million euros that will benefit seven regions and forty-six municipalities. Given this already announced closing schedule, the Generalitat exercises responsibility and commitment to future generations and the future of these territories. On the other hand, today we are faced with the irresponsibility of the PSOE and Podemos, who are proposing to us an amendment that does not attempt to nullify the whole meaning of our motion, but seems to us - and I have to say so - to be ashamed. [[Applauds]] Let's see why. While in the Republican Group we propose to develop and implement a nuclear transition plan from the year 2023, to ensure economic diversification and reindustrialization of the nuclear areas of Ascó and Vandellós in the face of its definitive closure, PSOE and Podemos tell us to continue implementing the commitment to the ecological transition, which will be carried out in the areas with facilities that are currently being closed. Therefore, our vocation to anticipate and work in time for the post-nuclear future loses all meaning. While the PSOE and Podemos talk about ENRESA being able to conclude agreements of collaboration with the municipalities and taking advantage of the experience acquired in the granting and management of the funds and local development, which contribute to the economic development of the municipalities - and he says - and, in any case to the generation of employment, in the Republican Group we propose that from 2023 the State contribute with a endowment to the Nuclear Transition Fund of the Generalitat of Catalonia with the same amount as the Catalan Administration does. In other words, we find concrete proposals from the Republican Group versus promises to the wind of PSOE and Podemos; we find 24 million euros per year from the Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia for the nuclear zones versus zero euros from the Government of the State for the Catalan nuclear zones; and we also find that whoever has exclusive competence in nuclear matters, which is the State, acts with irresponsibility and leniency, while whoever does not have them, who is Catalonia - she has ended, president - acts with responsibility and commitment to future generations, with the commitment to work for the reindustrialization of these zones. We ask them to assume their responsibilities, to assume the consequences of the closure and to act so as not to leave the families in these areas without work and without opportunities for present and future. Today we ask the groups in this House to support the most nuclear zone in the Spanish state...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u199	Mrs. Pujol, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u200	...and make it possible for this motion to come forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. In defence of the amendment put forward by your groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u202	Thank you and good morning, or late, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was expecting another tone from the Republican Left, and then I'll tell you about it. Our parliamentary group, as you know, has always defended the closure of nuclear power plants, because it is a dirty and dangerous energy. We have also always argued that the energy transition - which should have been made a long time ago, not only now with the triggering of the energy crisis caused by Putin, or triggered by Putin and caused by an energy system in the hands of large companies - must be done alongside the working class. Ladies and gentlemen, the era of the full energy of excessive consumption is over. That is why, especially now, the great challenge of politics is to manage scarcity. If from politics, when we manage scarcity we do not do it alongside the working class, it will happen that whoever will manage it will be the capital. And when capital manages, we already know that the usual happens: that a few are left with a lot and the vast majority are left with less and less. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that we must accompany the Terres de l'Ebre, the peoples of the surrounding nuclear power stations in Ascó and Vandellòs at the closure planned for these nuclear power stations. We have to do this because it is they who for many years have lived and suffered the effort to generate this nuclear energy for all and for all. Now we have to make this dismantling an opportunity for change, a new economic model, a new social model and, above all, a new environmental model. That is why we are defending, as we have always done and as my fellow Member from Tarragona, Ismael Cortés, well knows, that a strategic plan is needed for the towns and cities around nuclear power stations. And it must be done in advance, because if what we are seeing and what we have seen in the dismantling of the first generation nuclear power plants, such as Zorita or Garoña, will not happen. Ladies and gentlemen, municipal elections are coming, and perhaps that is why the Republican Left tone is totally unfortunate. Municipal elections are approaching and this invades all debates. Perhaps this is why we are talking specifically about Terres de l'Ebre, although, I insist, we have to talk about Terres de l'Ebre, of course, it is necessary and urgent. But we cannot forget that when we talk about nuclear dismantling, when we talk about changing the productive model of Terres de l'Ebre, we are talking about changing the energy model and changing consumption patterns. That is why a courageous and calm debate must be held. You cannot do like the gentlemen of VOX and deny climate change; you cannot fall into the immobilism of the PP; you cannot fall into the postponement of the PSOE; you cannot fall into the discourse of the CUP, a super-ecological discourse and then vote immobilism together with the Spanish and Catalan right-wings; and you cannot, gentlemen of Republican Esquerra, go from progressives and ecologists, and when you have the opportunity to set up a public electricity company in Catalonia to stay half-hearted, to do it only by name and not pay attention to what my party asked of you in Catalonia. What cannot be done, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, is to come here saying that the amendment that we are presenting - which is possible - is a shame, when it is a shame that you refuse to increase the resources devoted to the Lands of Ebre in Catalonia, as we proposed to you recently, by increasing the amount collected by the Catalan nuclear tax from 20 to 50 %, and here to say the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having is important, and we must have it, as I said, in a calm manner. It is not about who pays or which institution pays, it is about us joining efforts to make sure that the usual ones do not pay. This is the reason for the amendment that we have tabled together with the Socialist Party, with our differences and similar things, but thinking that it is possible and best. What we are proposing, within the strategy for the just transition and making the necessary changes or modifications in the order for the financing of the General Plan of Radioactive Wastes, is to put the necessary resources in Catalonia, as is already being done, for the transition to be fair for the citizens of Terres de L'Ebre. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u204	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, we Socialists are fully committed to the industrial conversion of those areas where nuclear closure is planned and we stand by the citizens of those municipalities to work on projects of innovation and industrial sustainability that allow these territories to adapt to the new situation. We are seeing it in all those areas where we have competence and are represented, such as, for example, in the municipal sphere, where the Socialist Mayor of Hospitalet-Vandellós, Alfons Garcia, has been working and seeking agreements with the different administrations for the industrial conversion project of Vandellós I, or we are seeing it too and we are carrying it out through the work of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Parliament of Catalonia, where we have tabled a motion, a motion for a resolution and a proposal for a law to work in the same line. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, the motion has only been debated, but do you know that your parliamentary group and the Junts Parliamentary Group voted? I'll explain it to you. In contrast to allocating a minimum of 50% of the tax resources to the regions of Camp de Tarragona and Terres de L'Ebre, in contrast to approving the regulation of the nuclear transition fund before 2022, they refrained from calling for an end to the historic aggravation and once and for all to push for an economic recovery plan; they abstained well because they had no position or because they were ashamed to vote against, and they only voted in favour of activating fair transition agreements and implementing a proposal for dismantling and closure that would guarantee employment. Therefore, they only voted in favour of the work on my territory being done by the State, because in the part that falls to the Generalitat of Catalonia you voted against and were inhibited from the competences that you have. And, by the way, in the same line is the historical aggravation that has suffered my demarcation with the budgets of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Without going further, the 2021 example, when the coalition government invested EUR 411 billion in my demarcation. Do you know how much the Government of the Generalitat invested? EUR 48 billion, 10% of what the State invested. Finally, we are also seeing it in the work being done by the government led by Pedro Sánchez. Spain is the only Member State that has explicitly included areas affected by nuclear power plant closures in its fair transition strategy with urgent action plans for those facilities that are currently closed and in the climate change law there is a renewed strategy every five years to address this issue. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, as regards when they bring such assertions in their texts, it would be no more than you explain the whole context a little bit. In the same vein - I venture, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, because they are quite predictable and I imagine what you are going to comment on - I would like to say to you that I hope you are not cynical when you talk about the closure and conversion of a part of our country's energy industry, because the truth is that you do not have to give much example. I don't know if you need me to remind you that in 2012 Rajoy abandoned the areas affected by the closure of Garoña, eliminating the plans launched by the Government of Zapatero, or how the Government of Rajoy lied by saying that they would maintain coal mining or coal thermal power plants, knowing that European legislation was going in another direction, and did not give any response either to the peoples or the affected regions, without seeking any industrial exit for those areas. Therefore, I hope that they will hide their heads less under the wing when they govern and give more solutions to the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, we are told that the State is raising funds but not the investments that have been made in these nuclear territories, and that, at the very least, is tendentious. You do not mention that the municipalities near Ascó and Vandellós have received around €199 million from the General Waste Plan activity fund, nor do you explain that fifty-four projects co-financed with Enresa have been approved, nor do you mention that in 2022 the Catalan nuclear municipalities received more than €7 million. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think we will agree that entering the game of the right in collection and not explaining what is the return of the territory at least does us a weak favor. And finally, the Government works in collaboration with the territories, participates with the public administrations, analyzes the situation and has signed general protocols of action with the autonomous governments, local administrations and associations of municipalities in areas of nuclear power plants. That is why we continue to work and that is why we have tabled the amendment. Therefore, welcome the participation of the Generalitat; it is late, but it is fine. And remember that the Generalitat has competence in industry; therefore, act and exercise. We will continue alongside the territories to achieve an innovative and sustainable industrial conversion.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u205	Mrs. Guaita, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u206	I'm done, President. You apply equally where you rule. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Guaita. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Parliamentary Group. [[Vasco EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u208	Thank you. In the face of the closures of nuclear power plants, it is of course necessary to create new opportunities in the zones of influence and to work on strategies that will ensure the future development of the affected regions, and to that end, the figure of the just transition conventions has been used. It must be said that they represent an important step, by including the nuclear areas in the areas of that just transition, which was initially not foreseen, benefiting only the coal-mining areas, so that they did not have European funding; a work that I believe has involved coordination in territorial public planning, with the participation of all local actors. However, it is not only necessary to have the instruments, but the main thing is for them to be carried out, to reach the areas and serve the desired objective, because they can hardly serve these conventions if the municipalities concerned and the people do not benefit from them. As for the motion, it is a very focused initiative, as it cannot be otherwise, from the Catalan perspective to which you represent. The truth is that we agree with its first point, which calls for a nuclear transition plan to ensure diversification and reindustrialization in the nuclear areas of Asco, Vandellós and Cofrentes, which I also understand will be addressed by the ministry according to the closing dates. With regard to the second point, you propose that the fund should be given an amount equal to that which the Generalitat brings, but at this point we disagree to some extent because, on the one hand, it does not set a time limit, until the Government has to contribute to this fund, and, on the other hand, because if there is a fair transitional fund, I understand that it will be comprehensive in order to achieve the objective of economic reactivation which will be raised and agreed with the municipalities concerned and which we believe will be sufficient, especially when you have a tax complementary to the effect. Having said all this and even if we have this doubt, we are certainly not going to be an obstacle to the approval of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u210	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion brought by the Republican Left of Catalonia today not only bets on the closure of nuclear power plants, as the Government has planned, but also seeks to compensate the peoples who are abandoned after the closure of their nuclear power plants by means of a nuclear tax. I have to say that there is no better support for those territories than for the expansion of nuclear closure deadlines. Between 2014 and 2015, at the proposal of Esquerra Republicana, the Generalitat promoted the creation of several environmental taxes, which will tax aspects such as nuclear power production. These taxes were collected in Law 12/2014 of 10 October, and determined that 10% of the tax collected on the production of electricity of nuclear origin from Catalan power plants will have an impact on the municipalities located in the nuclear areas. However, the Constitutional Court declared that tax unconstitutional in April 2016; as always, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya draws in its motion a declaration of unconstitutionality, persecution and maneuvers of the Spanish State's factual powers against Catalonia, but no, it is unconstitutional. Certainly, the reality of the sentence is much simpler, as it is based on the coincidence of this tax with one pre-existing in the state tax, which really made there a double taxation on the same taxable fact. After all this, the Generalitat continued its efforts to try to impose a new tax in the same direction, which was also annulled by the Constitutional Court in March 2019. After a long time, more than seven years later, the Generalitat decided to set up a fund to provide 24 million euros per year to support these nuclear zones after the closure, and in this motion it was proposed that the State should make an equal contribution to the Generalitat fund from the state level, i.e., little less than half of this instrument with what was collected throughout Spain but not to mention the rest of the Spanish nuclear zones, since the motion was aimed at a just transition fund for the Catalan nuclear zones. However, that is not what prevents the central office of Cofrentes from being included in the proposed fund, which, although not Catalan, as they belong to the Valencian Community, is included with them, while others, such as Almaraz, are not considered, we do not know why. In short, if the forms of this motion are impracticable, the background is incomprehensible, as it starts from the basis that the closing schedule for Catalan nuclear and all of Spain is as well as it is, and it is not. Indeed, they would have to consider supporting that the expansion of nuclear life will be considered, because at this time of energy transition it would be a constant energy that would help us to continue to work towards the implementation of the 100 per cent renewable. We believe that the useful life of nuclear power stations must be extended, but the government's excuse is that the sector itself does not want to, and that is not the case. If I spoke to them, I would know that they would be willing to look at this enlargement; if the Government really sat down to talk to them to do it properly, so that they could have an economic viability as companies they are. We will therefore vote against this non-law proposal, firstly because we do not believe in the creation of these taxes and this fund by providing the State, and secondly because we do not believe that nuclear power should be shut down within the prescribed time limits. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u212	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, should we approve a nuclear transition plan for Vandellós, Ascó and Cofrentes? Yes, of course. Should a contribution be made from the general budgets of the State to the nuclear transition fund created by the Generalitat? Yes, of course. We shall therefore vote in favour. From there and without wishing to hurt the sensibility of the proposing Members of the amendment, I am not going to call it a shame, but I will think about it. You, In Comú Pomero and the Socialist Party, in June sent for a tour of the local television stations of Terres de l'Ebre, articles and various statements putting Esquerra Republicana and Junts already imagine how because you opposed that 20% of the tax would be passed to 50%, which is reasonable, and I agree with that. The argument is that twenty-four million mean a ridiculous amount, very small and that with that nothing can be done, but today two Members - often gifts that have been made to them by their groups - come out here to say that no, that nothing else has to be brought, that is a subject of the Generalitat of Catalonia. No, ladies, this is not a subject of the Generalitat de Catalunya. The State cannot disagree, as if it were not with them. They say there is time; no, there is no time. If you really want to shut down nuclear power when you say, some in less than eight years, there is no time to materialize the investments that must be made to try to make the impact in these regions not a real disaster. Therefore, as for coming here today to table an amendment I do not say that I am ashamed, I will not say so, but to dance the conga, because this amendment is to dance the conga and do nothing, I do not think, and, above all, do not send me to the local televisions of Terres de l'Ebre the deputy of En Comú Puem or the deputy of the Socialist Party to sell more motorcycles because they will no longer charge. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u214	Thank you, President. In eight years the Terres de l'Ebre will be living a historical closure, that of the nuclear power plants, if there are no extensions beyond the dates planned for the start of this denuclearization, which will start with Ascó I, then Ascó II and then Vandellós II in 2035. As Minister Ribera said in her speech a few days ago, there is sufficient time to find occupational and economic alternatives for the inhabitants of the affected areas. We doubt that, because the minister herself assured us that her priority now is to focus on those power stations that are about to be dismantled, that is, in Garoña, Burgos, and in Zorita, Guadalajara, starting in March; we doubt that because there are no European funds to help in the closure of nuclear power stations, while there are just transitional funds for the closure of coal mines. For example, on As Pontes, A Coruña, they plan to inject EUR 25 billion for the industrial conversion of the area, a reindustrialisation with which 1300 jobs are to be created, says the Ministry's website. And for Catalonia? If there are no European funds, will they not create aid? These are the questions we ask ourselves. We have already been repeatedly told that the 46 populations in the area affected by the nuclear closure have been receiving funds to generate projects on the basis of the general plan of radioactive waste, 199 million euros over many years, nothing comparable to the reindustrialization injections committed in other autonomous communities. We also question whether there is enough time to find solutions because the companies that own the Iberdrola Endesa, Naturgas, have repeatedly threatened to shut down nuclear power before time, even targeted 2024. Interestingly, the threat came just after the Government wanted to limit its fallen benefits from heaven. They sell more than 200 euros for electricity that costs 40 euros to produce it or they charge for unissued CO2; they are nuclear. We question the Ministry's forecast also because a very valuable time has been lost because of the PP; it is true, they have taken to the Constitutional Court up to two taxes of the Generalitat - now it was being commented on - to create an accompanying fund for the just transition in the nuclear areas of the Terres de l'Ebre, when now it is thrown in front of the Generalitat - it has just been said a few minutes ago - that the tax comes late. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be remembered that, although it was the PP who brought him to the Constitution, the PSOE was a necessary collaborator or accomplice. The current tax generates EUR 120 million per year, of which the Generalitat allocates 20% to the Just Transition Fund, EUR 24 million, which the territory concerned considers to be insufficient; in fact, they call for the 50 % share of the fund to be around EUR 60 million. It is not discussed that with more resources the transition can be more sustainable and fairer. However, it seems that the socialists only agree that there is greater contribution when the money comes out of the Generalitat, but not when it has to come out of the state's coffers. We shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Requejo Novoa has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u216	With your permission, President. The Constitutional Court ruled twice, in the years 2016 and 2019, that the tax intended to be doubled by the Government of Sánchez was unconstitutional. There was still no timetable for nuclear closure, so there was no need - in neo-linguage - for a just transition. The compensation proposed in the regions that have suffered from the closure of coal mining or thermal power plants has been an absolute disappointment. The example of the closure of Garoña ten years ago has meant only the construction of a small pier, still without boats, and houses of rural tourism, while 1,200 megawatts of photovoltaic projects are requested that will create a landscape that is not compatible with the tourism. If you really want to secure a future for the surroundings of Vandellós and Ascó, what you must do is build Vandellós II and Ascó II. [[Applauds]] We have proposed to reopen Garoña with a new modular reactor. It is impossible to replace the six hundred jobs he had with fair transition plans. In the year 2020 - the third is the end - the Generality established a tax disguised of ecologicalism: tax on the installations that affect the environment, they called it. Sánchez said he would appeal to the Constitutional Court, but he didn't dare. It contravened the pact signed a year earlier between the electricians, Enresa and the Government, which established the closing schedule for the seven nuclear reactors, a fund for the management of radioactive waste and seemed to provide a definitive tax framework. For VOX, this autonomous tax means double taxation, which violates, inter alia, the principle of economic capacity and the right to freedom of enterprise enshrined in articles 31 and 33 of the Constitution. It is confiscatory in nature; with this tax they suffocate the generation of almost 60% of the electricity of Catalonia. In April 2022, insatiable, the tax went up, and VOX appealed it to the Constitutional Court; one of the 44 unconstitutionality appeals on the Sánchez package, the set of secret agreements signed with the enemies of Spain. Sánchez's pack tries to bring irrevocable ages closer to the Basque Country, to pardon the coupsmen of the process, to promulgate the ideological legislacies that no one claimed, such as Lomloe, that of abortion - the law of Herod -, euthanasia, yes is, that of historical memory, that of citizen security, the decriminalization of the insults to the king, and, of course, to make life impossible for the nuclear industry to shut down itself. This Government is clearly hostile to all nuclear matters. Eco-friendly night before the fall of the wall of its preferred partner makes them ignore a leading industry that exports 70% of its activity to more than forty countries. For example, we produce nuclear fuel rods, exporting more than half to countries such as Belgium, France, Sweden or Finland. The control rooms of 21 nuclear power plants are being exported to China. The U.S. aviation industry purchases ultrasonic systems and materials fatigue detection developed by Tecnatom. The Spanish nuclear industry collaborates in the design of several SMRs around the world. The national industry would account for 80% of the construction programmes for a new reactor in Spain. That is the challenge we should be facing, rather than wasting time trying to convince this government of the need to start the Villar de Cañas warehouse at once or to convince of the strategic value of our last seven reactors, which provide Spain with 20% of electricity and stabilize the grid, being a rotating energy. They are the same as in the United States, which has extended its service life to 80 years. The sixth generation of coming reactors cool down alone in case of shutdown. In addition, they are safer and cheaper, while being modular, being able to quickly increase their power, so they can serve as a back-up to renewables, and use as fuel much of the radioactive waste generated by the current ones. It is no use reminding this government of the 27 000 stable and quality jobs of the Spanish nuclear industry. Nor does it correct the Government with which the taxonomy of the European Union has included it as green energy or with which Germany changes and does not close its last three reactors. This Government says over and over again that nuclear energy is the past and only the reality of the nuclear boom being produced is being denied; together with the 450 nuclear power plants in operation, the construction of 483 new ones has been announced. Sánchez has turned the world around eight times in Falcon, but it has not been realized that 37 countries with 5 billion inhabitants, such as the United States, France and so on, are building nuclear power plants. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Requejo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u218	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating a motion in which the Spanish Government, after its objective of shutting down nuclear power plants, is expected to contribute to a fund of so-called just transitions. I wonder: Why is that goal of premature shutdown of nuclear power plants? Why, when it was the European Union - not the People's Party, but the European Union - that declared nuclear energy as green energy within taxonomy? Why remove nuclear energy from our electrical system if we lose our energy sovereignty and, for example, make us dependent on Russian gas and we are financing Russia with it? Why does Spain intend to shut down nuclear power stations, when, Mr Requejo, 38 countries around the world and 495 new power stations are in the process of being built? I don't know if you realize it, but with your ideological objectives you are leaving the Spaniards at the foot of a social and economic bankruptcy. [[Applauds]] They speak in their motion that the owners of the power stations and the Government have already agreed to close them. It is normal for them to think about its closure if the Government of Sánchez and the Government of the Generalitat continue to stifle them with more and more taxes. The industries in Spain will also have to close if they continue to suffocate with more taxes. Mrs Pujol, pay attention to me and do not let yourself be swept away by the obsession of this evil government with the closure of nuclear power stations. He speaks in his explanatory statement that the People's Party has not announced any transitional plans for the closure of nuclear power, and it is true that the People's Party is the only party that has always defended the security of energy supply through energy that is sustainable with the environment and competitive energy, and that is nuclear energy. Therefore, we, my group, will continue to work to convince this bad government why the maintenance of nuclear power plants is the best option, the only option. And in his explanatory statement he talks about the Spanish Government working on fair transition plans, but I ask him: What government? Ribera's? Sanchez's? What plans? Of the 16? Fair transition plans? Look, Mrs Pujol and Mrs Guaita, I live near where you live, I am a Turolense, and, unfortunately, two years and four months ago, because of Sánchez and Ribera, we suffered the closure of the thermal plant in Andorra. I know very well what a fair transition plan means for both the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez. You know what that means? A deception to the workers, a deception to the trade unions and business organizations and a deception to the municipalities that, like mine - Calanda - are also suffering it. [[Applauds]] Those plans, those plans that the Socialist Party says are promises and promises of business arrivals and job creation. Do you know, after two years and four months of the closure of the plant, how many companies have arrived in my territory? I'm telling you, none. As I say, after two years and four months, we have neither industry nor employment; unfortunately, what we do have are hundreds and hundreds of workers who have already exhausted their unemployment benefit. And today, November 2, those just transition plans that you say this Government is working on are still not signed today. The corporal. Mrs. Pujol, you are councillor of Flix, but I have not heard you here, in the rostrum, say whether or not you are in favor of closing the Asco power plant. For example, his partner, Mr. Salvador, is from Tarragona. Hey, are you or are you not in favour of closing down the Asco and Vandellós power stations? [[Applauds]] They have to tell their neighbors. It gives the feeling that there are also two republican schemes, that of Tarragona and that of Catalonia; as there are two socialist parties, that of Extremadura and that of Spain, that of Sánchez and Rivera, in which some claim the extension of the closure of the power stations and others claim the premature closure of the power stations. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] In short, Mrs Pujol, do you know what would be the best transitional fund that could reach your neighbours and the regions of Asco and Vandellós? It would be that you will also work to convince this evil Government that the maintenance of nuclear power plants is essential. Otherwise, you will be responsible for the future situation in your region and, with that, for the number of workers going to the street. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u219	Thank you very much, Mr Herrero. Mrs Pujol, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u220	President, we do not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u221	All right, thank you very much. The vote will take place on their terms. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the measures it intends to take THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE OF THE INCREASE IN THE ILLEGAL OCCUPATIONS OF LIVING. [[File number 173/000176]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u222	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the measures the Government intends to take in the face of the increase in illegal housing occupations. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u223	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Today, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I support a motion following the urgent appeal to the Minister of Justice, in which we wanted him to explain to us the measures that the Government was taking to combat this social scourge which is increasing day by day, the octopus of housing. [[The lady]] The minister, in her speech, far from the category of a minister of the government and more than one of Justice, left a couple of very curious, worthy of mention: the first, that the ocupation of individuals does not exist and, the second, that we put fear to the older people and that they do not go on vacation because of us. This, along with the statement of the minister of Podemos a few months ago that ocupation is an urban legend, defines exactly the government's policy against objective data that say that since Sánchez is in government, ocupation has grown by 46% and that there are forty-nine ocupation complaints per day. And that's in the first quarter of this year, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary. Today, apart from numbers, we bring you specific cases: people, families who cannot dispose of their homes, elderly people who are admitted to a hospital and cannot return to their home because they have occupied it, neighbors who cannot live in their octopus neighborhood because they destroy everything above them. That's the reality. Look, this is more than forty-five octopus news between September and October of the same year. [[Shows several photocopies of press news]] And I quote some textually: 'The rise of Mafia occupations breaks the coexistence of the Raval'; sixty octopus floors. 'The nightmare of living in Florida in L'Hospitalet: we suffer daily robberies, assaults, death threats'. 'An 18-year-old boy opens his head to a man who blamed him for octopusing a place in Mataró.' Do you see this as normal? Members who support the government, is this the Spain you want? In these cases, all the problems inherent in the illegal occupation, which are not only occupied by the house, are evidenced by the fact that there is an important collateral problem. In recent weeks we have seen, in a self-amendment by the Socialist Group to the law of procedural efficiency, the maximum inconsistency of the PSOE, by proposing a precautionary measure in cases of usurpation and break-in for eviction in forty-eight hours. How do you eat this with the protection of the okupas that you have made in Royal Decree 1/2021, where de facto legalizes okupation, prohibiting eviction in certain circumstances? And now who's gonna make the decision? Either the Socialist Party has not understood the problem, or indeed it has understood it, but prefers to confuse by adopting the position of its partners and betting on ocupation as a form of access to housing. Now the PSOE has a double position: on the one hand, it incites octopus, it has legalized the octopus, the usurpation - by the way, we have taken the measure to the Constitutional Court - and on the other hand, it is now disconnected with measures that half copy those of the People's Party, wanting to implement a precautionary measure, which involves an eviction of the okupa in forty-eight hours, and an amendment to the Law of the Jury Court, where they eliminate the break-in to reduce the time of the judicial process. And all that accompanied by an incursion by socialist mayors into Congress to ask us to support this move. Welcome be, welcome be, I repeat, because at least they are worthy to establish the priority, which is the establishment of precautionary measures of eviction. But how does this house with the permissiveness of the octopus, which lasts until December 31, 2022? You will be with us - and so all these cases prove - in which eviction is the priority, but there are a lot of collateral circumstances that have to be addressed: mafias who profit from the business of the Okupas, citizen security, the few guarantees that the security forces have to act... All this can't go unpunished, we have to solve it. Do you want to provide solutions? Well, welcome to work against the ocupation, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, welcome. The People's Party has been bringing initiatives to this House for years, measures that we are improving in the face of the worsening situation. The measures we are bringing here today are very clear. The first thing, that okupar is a crime; okupar is to steal, is to appropriate something that is not yours. [[applause]] An okupa is evicted, not evicted. If any of you, for example, steal the car, what do you do, leave it to the thief for a while until he can have one? Isn't that right? Well, it's exactly the same. Evicted in 24 hours, this is the first thing we propose to do, regardless of the ex post facto procedure, and immediately evicted in the event of flagrante delicto. Improving legal protection against mafia. Prohibit registration and consider registration invalid if there is no enabling title. That an okupa does not enjoy the same rights as a person who has invested the savings of a lifetime in a real estate. Owner communities must be legitimized so that they can act and exercise the denunciation action. And then there is the tax refund - IBI, patrimony - for as long as the okupation lasts. There is no right for the owner to have to pay all the expenses inherent in the house. And, of course, all these measures must be applied to natural or legal persons, without distinction. Look, these are integral measures that try to solve the collateral problems that occur together with the okupation. This problem is not solved, ladies and gentlemen, with the precautionary measure of eviction in 48 hours. Don't just stand there, move on. We were copied to exclude the break-in of the acts that the jury court judges. We can also be copied to amend the Criminal Prosecution Act so that usurpation is considered an offence to be tried in a prompt oral trial. We can also be copied that those who incite the crime have a sanction. Thus we would avoid the work that many of its partners do by inciting okupar, replacing a housing policy - which they do not - with this serious attack on private property. And if you do not want to copy us, if it is more comfortable for you, vote in favour of these measures and of the bill that we will bring with its development. If they do not, we will know who is on the side of defending the Constitution and the rule of law and who is in favour of defending criminals. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zurita. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bal Francés is speaking first of all by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u225	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we come here with one of those issues that Citizens have brought to this rostrum on several occasions, which has always been the subject of controversy and which really casts worrying figures or data. From 2018 to 2021, 41% of the complaints made on issues related to ocupation have been increased, and they are data from the Ministry of the Interior, we do not invent them. Moreover, the Platform Affected by the Occupation says that reality casts higher figures, because there are many people who no longer bother to report; go to those alleged companies, which are out of regulation, that we do not know very well how they manage to expel the okupas from the house. And we, meanwhile, here, blaming each other because we're not seeing the problem. [[The Lord]] The case is that justice is very slow both in civil jurisdiction and in criminal jurisdiction, that you lose possession of your home, that you cannot enjoy it and that you have to continue paying rent, mortgage, supplies; that it is already bloody to continue to have to pay the supplies of another person who has illegally occupied the home, but if you cut them off, you can be reported for a crime of coercion. And, look, the cases are very prolific. It is not as easy as the People's Party says or as the Socialist Party is now trying to say. We have okupations for individuals; we have okupations for organized mafias; we have okupations, which we have never denied, for people who are in a situation of vulnerability; we have situations in which vulnerable people are victims of mafias who ask them to rent those houses that have previously okupated; we also find situations in which these criminal organizations use the okupation to commit other crimes such as drug trafficking; we have cases in which the okupations occur violently; we have cases in which the okupations occur with blackmail: if you don't pay me, you burn your house; we have cases of houses of banks that have executed their mortgages and don't want to defend the situation in which their homes are located, and the communities of owners go crazy about the alteration that this entails with regard to their community and with regard to living together. We have very varied cases, but we have to solve each of these cases, and that is not simply saying that the eviction is going to occur - which is the guerilla that you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party have - in twenty-four or forty-eight hours; for in one hour, if we start to say what time it takes to make the eviction, just as justice is and without wanting to put money or means in it. If it's not just about that, man, if it's about being much more ambitious. What is clear is that we have an absolutely obvious legal gap. The Ombudsman says so, but just get on the Internet and put in Google 'the guide of the good okupa' and you find the instructions to occupy a house and they can't kick you out. This is unfortunate. That's that we're not doing our job. We put forward a proposal for a law, which was called a guarantee of security and civic coexistence in the face of ocupation; a proposal for a law that since the XII Legislature we have been improving - in which my colleague Juan Ignacio LópezBas intervened, I intervened myself and also, his day, intervened the very longing Joan Mesquida, who is no longer among us - and in which we propose many things that have been the subject of the amendment that we have put to the People's Party. Penalties must be raised, but they must be raised with the criterion of differentiating cases, because we must distinguish cases of violence, we must distinguish cases of criminal organization, we must distinguish cases in which an organization does so in order to commit another crime, and then the crimes are in real competition for crimes. The case in which one takes advantage of a vulnerable victim could also be distinguished. In cases of flagrante delicto, prompt prosecution of certain offences must be used. As you can see, it is far more prolific than the text of the GNP presented here by the People's Group. Indeed, municipalities must be given powers to ensure that registrations in the cadastre are null and void; a preferential and summary judgment must be established in the civil sphere, not for a period of forty-eight or twenty-four hours; preference must be given to processing and a system similar to the interdictal one; the communities of owners must be legitimized; banks that do not wish to defend their own property must be condemned on costs, and the State security forces and bodies must be given powers and clarity in the circulars of the Office of the Prosecutor. And we also wanted to amend some barbarity that they have included - I say this with all respect to the People's Party - such as, for example, redefining in a law the concept of dwelling, which is a constitutional concept. Well, it looks like the Socialist Party has seen the light. We meet the mayor of the PSC of Sabadell, Marta Farrés, who in the Association of Municipalities of the Metropolitan Arc - I am finishing, president -, which groups municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants and has 4400 okupada housing, wants to establish a solution. Be sensible, vote in favour of the People's Party's GNP, which is a start, and from there we will improve this law. And, above all, they don't care for Podemos or Esquerra or Bildu, who are going to tell them that the problem doesn't exist. The problem exists and we have an obligation to resolve it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u226	Thank you. Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u227	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Interior replied in writing that the illegal occupations have increased by 45% since 2018, however, already Minister Campo accused our Senator Yolanda Melero of alarming and echoing the fake news; the Minister of Justice Here, in this very rostrum, accused us of being afraid; Vice-President Díaz, who is angry when anti-Okupation measures are presented, says that the okupation does not exist, and, to finish, Minister Montero, the one that gives the most, says that the okupation is an invention of VOX. Home invasion or home usurpation is equally illegal and we want them out immediately. [[Applauds]] But do we have laws in Spain to fight against ocupation? Yes, we do, but they're deficient. What happens in Spain has no match in Europe. In Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, new legislation has been put in place to adapt to this reality. And, yes, Mr Bal, in those countries the eviction is immediate and resolved at police headquarters, and then the trials are already taking place. The good citizen is no longer believing in justice; it is cheaper to pay the okupa than time, stress, worries, lawyers and pay everything he has to pay to kick him out. They are making it easy for the Okupas to coerce and extort, and as we continue to allow neighboring patrols to partner to fight for the security of their neighborhoods, this will end up like the wild west. In this House, it is where we have to give them a solution, and it is not a question of being insensitive, illegal occupation is not because there is a lack of social housing, which of course is lacking, at least two and a half million social housing units to place us only on the European average. You promised 20,000 homes in 2018 and have not built one. [[Applauds]] Social Services does not have the means to study the real situation, they have to rely on the declaration of which it is said to be vulnerable, and the Government, which is incompetent to provide a housing solution, denies the reality of the ocupation, looks to the other side and bears that responsibility to the owners. In raids or usurpations, the normal thing, as in all other crimes and regardless of the end result, the normal thing would be the restitution of the immediate possession to its legitimate owner. [[Applauds]] But why don't the police act? Because it does not have a clear legal framework or direct instructions for doing so. So, of course, companies like Desocupa come up, who do the mediation that the police should be able to do, but they can't. And those affected, Mr. Mayoral, are not Blackstone, Cerberus or Morgan Stanley; they are owners, communities of neighbors and entire neighborhoods. Illegal occupations have been occurring since 2012 and 2013 and have been growing, and this is what we are talking about on the subway. In VOX we have been presenting initiatives and proposals against ocupation since we entered this Congress. In June this year we presented another proposal for a law combining initiatives that we had previously put forward to take action against octopus and harassment. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, presented your copy and paste of our proposal in August. Well, well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. As we always tell them, when they copy VOX, they're right. [[Applauds]] You are asking in your motion to reinforce the penalties for the crime of usurpation, but it is that it was you in your reform of the Criminal Code in 2015 who passed the usurpation to mild crime. [[Applauds]] They ask to consider the registration of an okupa in the padrón null, and, ladies and gentlemen, also in 2015 you issued a resolution by which the okupas could register anywhere, regardless of whether they had an enabling title to reside there. And now horses are laid when the Sánchez government in 2020 makes this same resolution, or when the Sánchez government deals with separatists. Have you forgotten the Covenant of the Majestic? But, I insist, when PP copies VOX, it's right. [[Applauds]] When we talked about energy sovereignty, you accused us of wanting to go back to what autarchy, and now you're talking about energy sovereignty. We don't finally see their deputies with that pin of fucking agenda colors that they imposed on us in 2015 and that's ruining our fields and our economy. Now I ask you, since you copy us, you copy us completely and do not leave out the reality of worry. These are the tenants who become okupas with premeditation and fading; false vulnerable, mostly, who are ruining thousands and thousands of families. Please, keep in mind. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Through various parliamentary initiatives throughout the XIV Legislature, over and over again the General Courts have been insisting on the urgent need to respect and give protection to the sacrosanct private property reflected in housing, one of the crucial socio-economic elements protected by the Spanish Constitution. As has already been said, the phenomenon of octopus continues to rise. So much so that the Centre for Sociological Research has incorporated it very recently in its analyses because it is one of the issues that is of significant and spontaneous concern to citizens, although cynically - and I am convinced that we will listen to it throughout this debate - there are leftist political forces that attribute this growing concern to campaigns of their political opponents. The reality is that, as time goes by without taking measures against the Okupas, different variants arise, such as the so-called "inqui okupación", an illegal type that is perpetrated when the tenant of a house or local stops paying the rent and refuses to leave the property. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two major problems in this matter for society to which the Government has not wanted and has not been able to respond: that of housing and that of security. On the occasion of previous debates, I have already warned that Spain, as other countries of the European Union have done, should have an agile and unequivocal legal framework that will provide protection to the owner of an octopus housing and enable judges to resolve the flagrant illegal occupations with haste, allowing our forces and security forces to intervene in their struggle against criminals who take over someone else's housing. The added serious problems of failure of coexistence that frighten citizens, neighbourhoods, and economic bankruptcy due to the multiple stumbling blocks and the costs of light, water, community, etc., that the affected owners have to assume by the otupation of their property, justify that society is endowed with adequate and effective legislative tools. Ladies and gentlemen, with the data I have been able to collect, some of which have already been offered, until July 2022, the Ministry of the Interior has counted almost 9000 ocupations, with Catalonia as the community that suffers most from these crimes, with 42% of the total. In fact, a month ago they were here, in the Congress of Deputies - and some spokesmen have said - different mayors of the association of municipalities of the metropolitan arc of Barcelona, demanding measures in favor of the local authorities to tackle this serious problem that gives rise to very conflictive and violent situations. It is noteworthy that the City of Barcelona, the city with the worst statistics in recent years, has not joined this municipal front. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, I consider the ten points of this motion that Mrs Zurita Exposito has defended to be fully justified and I would appreciate an effort to negotiate a text that takes into account some of the issues raised in the amendments, because it increases octopus and its derivatives, including the formation of neighbourhood patrols in some places where this abnormality spreads. Hence the imperative need to implement legislative reforms to limit the perverse violation of rights faced by the mafias, who even try to extort the affected owners if they want to recover their land. Finally, I would like to refer to the failure of this government of coalition PSOE-Unidas We can in the matter of housing, with a bill deeply interventionist, which is paralyzed by the conflicts between the partners - they say that because of their disagreements - to limit the prices of rents or to paralyse evictions in vulnerable families without alternative housing, among other aspects. With an economic crisis like the one we are suffering and which is dragging Spain to the worst levels of impoverishment in the European Union, the Government refuses to promote measures, and everything points out that the increase in evictions and the lack of housing solutions by those affected will have a terrible drift. It is therefore imperative that the Congress of Deputies should guide the Executive of Pedro Sánchez to stop circumventing the necessary measures to try to resolve this disturbing issue of the Okupas. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u230	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u231	Thank you very much, President. We are once again discussing the opportunity and desirability of changing the responses that the existing legal order has to the illegal otupation as a housing alternative. To date, the House has not found a sufficient majority to carry forward some of the initiatives presented, which have always been debated in a polarized climate based on facts on which totally divergent figures are handled, and sometimes taken ad hoc; on concepts confused many times by post, such as legal assets protected by trespassing and usurpation; on accounts referring to houses to then mutate into real estate or to take, at times, as a axis of speeches natural persons to end up concluding on these, and the legal ones, which are not cited in order not to have to refer to the large financial forbearers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with all this, the ceremony of confusion is served, in which each one grabs his sardine in order to base ideological positions faced, not being at times alien to this dance of figures and data security companies and financial institutions in their status as large holders of buildings subject to okupation. Figures and data contrasting with those of the homeless, who are also growing year by year according to the INE; and figures and data that are also nuanced with those of the total housing stock in Spain and of these, those which are households and those which are empty. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole dispute over the reality of ocupation reminds us, as our colleague Guillermo Meijón pointed out the other day, of the villain Angela Channing of the Falcon Crest series when she cynically stated that reality is only a point of view, or on the same issue, when journalist Miguel Ángel Aguilar in On the Laws of Physics and Information found that when a fact becomes news it never becomes a fact again. In conclusion, all this leads us to believe that much of society believes that we are facing a serious problem calling for a review of the legal system and that it is not appropriate to postpone because it is well known that in media democracies reality is what people think it is. Now, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the organizational and procedural reforms in the areas of the administration of justice, it seems that we will again have a necessary majority to address the revision of the legal order that the Basque Parliamentary Group considers necessary, as we did when we actively participated in the amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act, to speed up the recovery of housing by individuals in the face of the okupation by means of prohibitions. A reform of the legal system which the Basque Parliamentary Group now considers necessary on the following aspects: immediate property recovery through precautionary measures in the field of Lecrim; involvement of social services with regard to situations of serious vulnerability; increased measures at the disposal of the communities of neighbours with regard to the affected coexistence when annoying, unhealthy, harmful or dangerous activities are carried out, as well as unlawful acts by untitled occupants; accelerated criminal proceedings and consideration of the criminality of organizations that are behind untitled occupations; and, where appropriate, increased criminality of usurpation, being aware that it is directly proportional to the complexity of the proceedings. Alongside these aspects we will definitely reconsider, as we did during the processing of the Civil Prosecution Act in 2018, on the owner of the property, the differentiation or not between natural and legal persons, large financial holders, on the occupied property and the differentiation or not between houses and other real estate. Finally, and I am finalizing, Mr President, our group, as I said to you, understands that the reform of the legal system must be addressed in order to deal from various perspectives with the phenomenon of opt-out and that the right line at this time must be to deal with the ongoing reforms on procedural and organisational laws of justice in the Justice Commission, and not to urge the Government to introduce legislative reforms that would only delay the issue without delay. That is why I would like to say that, without going into the matter of the motion before us at this stage, our group will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u232	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u233	Thank you very much, President. Who do we talk about when we talk about okupas? Of CaixaBank, of Blackstone, of Goldman Sachs, of the vulture funds that occupy hundreds of thousands of floors and whose only interest is to earn more money, despite the suffering of people, despite increasing rents, despite disposing of families? The law is sufficiently guaranteeing and does not require electoral or alarmist motions presented here to campaign. It would be better for them to worry about the problem of housing, why young people at the age of thirty-five are at their parents' house, why young couples can't emancipate themselves, why rents go up and you don't want to control them. Stop acting like you're Securitas Direct commercials and deal with the housing problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u234	Thank you. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I believe that there is one thing that is clear in the Catalan political universe, and that is that PeCAT has become a guarantor of the fight against illegal occupations. We have been working since the beginning of the year on some questions, which are those that put on the table that in Catalonia this problem is a real problem that accounts for 42% of the total number of omissions of the whole state. In May we presented a proposal for a law to modify the legal configuration to fight against opt-outs, and this legal amendment, which we formulated through a proposal for a law, is the one that we have also introduced in the laws of organizational efficiency and procedural efficiency when it is convenient for this debate to finally take place and make the necessary legislative changes. We are surprised that the People's Party, which presented something similar in August, now incardinates it through a motion, because a motion does not cease to be a vote and a declaration of intent, when you, unlike the PeCAT, which has a very small quota in the General Courts, have all the quota you want and would have been able to put these non-law proposals in any of the debates that have taken place in several sessions of this House, with which there is a lot of opportunism in this motion. This does not mean that the motion is not right, so we are going to support them in recognizing that we must fight illegal occupations already, although the channel they have chosen is totally absurd in that it will not entail any legislative change of those proposed by the PeCAT, which we believe are the solution to this issue. It is a solution endorsed by PeCAT and also by the Catalan and Spanish Lawyers to solve the problem of illegal occupations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u237	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious problem of access to housing, of course, but there is also a social problem: illegal occupations, a reality that we cannot close our eyes to, a problem with many faces, but which is particularly intense for small owners, who after years of work have invested their savings in a building that they are now occupied and cannot recover. In Catalonia, the situation is particularly worrying: thousands of octopuses a year, tens a day, 42% of the state's octopuses. Junts per Catalunya has met with representatives of the local world, mayors and governors of our party as well as others, responsible municipalism like ours, who wants answers. Recently we met with the mayors of the city network of Barcelona's arc metropolità: Mataró, Mollet, Granollers, Sabadell, Terrassa, Martorell or El Prat, some of their own party, socialist gentlemen, and you know what they tell us? That there is a problem for the owners and there is also a problem for living together in their neighborhoods and cities, that this situation is not sustainable. To find answers Junts has always been active. It was Constellera Ciuro when she promoted civilian-type measures. Now, in response to the demands of responsible municipalism, we propose: first, a precautionary measure to speed up evictions. We have tabled amendments to the laws of procedural efficiency and budgets and we are going to present a proposal for a law in order to be able to dislodge in forty-eight hours the criminal omissions or that disturb the coexistence, as other forces have done and also based on the proposal of the Collège d' Advocates of Barcelona and the Council of the Advocates. We also want municipalities to be able to act when the owner does not, and for this reason we propose to extend the powers of the local security boards. Secondly, social measures. To strengthen the public housing park and promote social rental, we propose the temporary expropriation of the properties of large forks that do not comply with their obligations as owners, to allocate these apartments to social housing. As a second social measure, we demand the transfer of the 12,000 floors of the Sareb in Catalonia to the Generalitat, which the State does not undertake to put at the service of Catalan citizens. We have tabled an amendment to the budgets in this respect and today we are presenting a non-legislative proposal to make this transfer effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u238	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u239	Thank you, Mr. President. For here we are again with the same, with the same because there is also no willingness to address the problem in its true dimension. We continue to experience the results of the 2008 crisis, a crisis that involved, first of all, hundreds of thousands of foreclosure procedures out of legality, as witnessed by the Court of Justice of the European Union, where hundreds of thousands of families were deprived of their right to housing and condemned to perpetual debts and residential exclusion, and also hundreds of thousands of empty houses in the hands of large forbearers who continue to make an anti-social use of the right to property. This has led, first, to the infra-housing as a formula not to go under a bridge and, secondly, to a particularly serious issue: the existence of large empty, abandoned buildings, which obviously create problems in cities and which, moreover, relate to the serious absence of social infrastructure for the carrying out of activities by social groups of all kinds. Why are we going to address a problem that has two sides: one, hundreds of thousands of empty houses and the other, a situation of residential exclusion and insecurity in tenure and do so according to what the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights raises for us? Why are we going to assess the situation of residential exclusion in our country? Why don't we ask, as our group has done, the Sareb to tell us what is the residential situation of the houses that are in the Sareb's hands? Why don't we talk about empty and abandoned homes that are causing problems in many cases to the communities of owners, because financial institutions and funds don't pay the community and leave homes so that there is a deterioration in living conditions that facilitates the gentrification of many cities and the artificial increase in the price of housing?! They have no interest in talking about it!Is it a problem that housing prices are limited and is it a problem that is involved in mortgage contracts to prevent the unorthodox rise of interest from putting people on the street after mortgage execution procedures?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They don't care about that. Hand lasts with the weak and always weak with the strong. Have you forgotten the EUR 60 billion accounted for by the Banco de España, which is many more, that has been put by the working people of our country to rescue the financial system?! We have not forgotten what they owe our people! Nor have we forgotten that the Government of the Community of Madrid still does not want to comply with the judicial decisions that oblige it to recover the 3000 houses delivered at a price of balance to the vulture funds!Suffice it to hypocrisy in the face of a situation as serious as that which is being experienced in the matter of housing in our country! Do you imagine in the 1970s, when the infra-housing articulated the cities of our country, that the solution would have been, instead of policies of social insertion, the excavator and the police as a solution?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What would become of Vallecas today, of Orcasitas, of the neighborhoods of Barcelona, of Valencia or of the great capitals of our country?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There was a democratic agreement to address a situation in the face of residential exclusion, a democratic agreement among all forces, which was not to use State violence and to use social inclusion policies appropriate to what is contained in our constitutional text and our human rights obligations! Yes, there are cases, there are, of jets, very jets!, jets that occupy palaces that were museums open to the public so that their family spends the summer with the Greek royal family that supported the Colonels' dictatorship. We and we claim as null the transfer made in 1973 by the Majorca Diputation to Don Juan Carlos and Dona Sofia of the Palace of Marivent! And we say to them, "Look Meirás, for Marivent will be the next, and a museum will be opened that our people can enjoy in front of the usurpers!" Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u240	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Tizón Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u241	Thank you, President. Today the People's Party brings us an opportunistic motion on the line of my parliamentary group's initiative to regulate illegal occupations. They are in a hurry to ask for the moon for what they are interested in and very little to fulfill other agreements, but my group is not going to enter into the rag of populism or demagoguery. Ladies and gentlemen, to deal with a problem we must first look at it, first we must understand it. Our duty is to seek solutions and not confuse citizens, which is just the opposite of what you do with this motion. Why? Because it is not the same as an eviction for unpaid rent or rent of a mortgage that a process of eviction for break-in or usurpation, because they are putting in the same sack radically different situations!, because they propose the offer of express eviction on the one hand and the increase of penalties on the other. By the way, I remind you that it was you who reduced it to a minor crime in your reform of the 2015 Criminal Code. [[Applauds]] So, what are we left with, ladies and gentlemen? The problem of illegal occupations is a problem with different faces, regarding property, yes, but it is also a problem of coexistence that is not new and that we are moved by many mayors. It's something about what you have to reflect on and not act on effect like you when you say: nullify the registration of alleged omissions in municipalities. Doesn't he know that a prior declaration of illegal okupation is required? And when they talk about acting in the event of flagrante delicto, do they not know that there is already an instruction of the year 2020 establishing a protocol for the action of the forces and security forces of the State? Ladies and gentlemen, they are not discovering anything new, but what is serious is that they do not appropriate solutions that already exist, it is that they invent solutions that are contrary to the law! They ask you to return the IBI in cases of illegal occupations, but it is something that is not admitted in our tax regulations, there are no assumptions in our country that foresee that cause. So, what do we have, ignorance or bad faith? They escape from all logic the approaches that they bring here today, and I repeat that at the stroke of demagogy things are not resolved. We are talking about a problem that mainly affects metropolitan areas and urbanized cores, and this is the reality that we must tackle responsibly. In the Socialist Party we want the constitutional mandate of access to housing to be fulfilled, and that is why we are putting measures on the table. But, of course, how are we going to ask you to join in if we already know how you spend it with the Constitution, with the embarrassing spectacle you're having with the General Council of the Judiciary! [[Applauds]] They already know our amendments in the law on organisational efficiency, and today we are working on a new measure concerning the problem of large forks. Furthermore, we do not forget something fundamental that you do not include: cases of special vulnerability of people in a situation that we believe should be brought to the attention of social services in order to take measures for their protection. That's right, they include tax benefits, something they know about that doesn't save the dramas of thousands of families in this country. You have missed an opportunity to prove that you care about people and not just business. You have never had and have no real housing policies. I'm not saying it, your history says it more than doubtful, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. They have already done so with the law of the ground, which only managed to pave the way to the vulture funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we are so concerned about the housing law, that they will bow their shoulders so that a constitutional mandate can be fulfilled that should not be left in the hands of individuals, but of public administrations. My group works tirelessly for this new law, and it is clear: our 3400 million for housing in the face of its massive sale of vulture funds. Let's hope they're pulling their shoulders, because the Socialist Party isn't going to stay. We do not copy the People's Party or buy the argument of the far right. We are not going to cause alarm or make noise, they do not insist; on Thursday when they arrive at their homes they will not be busy. We tackle the problems of root society. The solution is not to make motions, the solution is to legislate. Faced with populism, real measures for a complex reality that must be woven with a very fine thread. And the occurrences, ladies and gentlemen, we'd better leave them for another day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs Zurita Exposito, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u243	We're working on some transactions that we'll get to the table.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u244	All right, thank you very much. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THE INDEPENDENCE AND IMPARIALITY OF RTVE CORPORATION AND TO END WITH POLITICAL INJURY IN THIS PUBLIC SERVICE. [[File number 173/000177]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u245	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the steps that the Government will take to ensure the independence and impartiality of the RTVE Corporation and to put an end to political interference in this public service. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Sánchez del Real has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u246	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. He's still shaking with Mr. Mayoral. I don't know what to take, but he's excited. Go for God, with the demagogy that brings us to this Congress. [[Majoral Perales: The Squadron says so]] Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. I was coming with good intention, because I was going to say: how good is the left, it's very good; the left is - how to say it - spectacular, incredible, wonderful, funky, great; it's good at one thing; but quiet, that I'm not suddenly suffering a sudden conversion, I'm not falling off the horse on the way to Damascus and I'm not going to speak in Latin although, speaking of Spanish Radiotelevision, one would have to swear in Aramaic; but I haven't had a sudden conversion. You are good at one thing, because you can be carriers of some absolutely perverse ideas, you can have the wrong ideas, you can be deeply wrong and you can on top be destructive with everything you touch, but you are good at one thing and I admit it: propaganda. You, the left, the independenceists are very good at propaganda. I'm really telling you, I'm telling you honestly. And I recognize that capacity for the infection of that propaganda in everything they touch. It's infectious in the negative sense, don't come to me that I can keep telling you things. It is infectious in negative, dirty, staining, sometimes with the complicity of those who have frightened them. I do not know why you have been afraid for so many decades some who once said to be conservative or liberal, I do not understand, because facing you is very simple: with the word, with the truth and putting you in front of the mirror of what you do. For decades, the fear of what they will publish has constrained the political decisions of some groups in this House. The desire to go out on the cover of a medium progresses the weekend has led to sympathies and deliveries. But I want to make one point for you: you will be very good at propaganda, but from three years to this part of this House there is a group that does not surrender, there is a group that will not give up the arguments, there is a group that will face you and that before the media controlled by the left - and today we are talking about the public media - we will be as uncomfortable as we can so that you have this cultural battle so fun, because you were bored before we arrived. [[applause]] A few days ago we questioned the minister - of propaganda as well, major plumber of the kingdom - and asked him about independence, about the impartiality of Spanish Radiotelevision and how he was going to keep it independent and impartial. He didn't answer, he put us down from a donkey, let go of everything he could say. We have data that up to four times has met the outgoing president of Spanish Radiotelevision, Mr Pérez Tornero - outgoing and hurtful - in Moncloa with the Secretary of State for Communication. A very simple question of cultural battalion: does Spanish Radiotelevision depend on the State Secretariat of the Government of Spain? The answer is, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So four small meetings in Moncloa have made clear the interplay that you, on the left, have so that one of your propaganda axes is Spanish television. [[Applauds]] And secret meetings also with the presidential candidate, who the other day in parliamentary office was unable to deny that those meetings had taken place. Did Mr. Sánchez send Pérez Tornero, the president of Spanish Broadcasting? The answer is: obviously, of course, yes; and now the secondary actors are on stage. Some secondary actors who are those who were already on the board of directors thanks to the quadruple person, you know: PSOE, PP, Podemos and my dear gentlemen of the PNV who, as I usually tell you, are in all the sauces. For the Spaniards who are listening to us, there was a merit contest and they managed that, of those you have put in, the one who had the best note was in position number 12. The seventeenth, the twenty-first, the twenty-second, the thirty-fifth and the thirty-ninth. Don't worry, Mr. Mayoral, I'm telling you: 17, 21, 22, 35 and 39. [[Applauds]] By the way, suspense! Because they had less than 50%. Who was the first suspense? The 56th. Sure! Podemos's was the first suspension, had 56 of ordinal and was suspended because he did not even reach the note of 5, as neither did the current president in office. They chose the real platoon of the clumsies and, of course, in clumsies what was going to come out? A shameful deal. What a cultural battle some have given, a small battle through the media. And not content with that, you have created an organ - which we could define almost as a soviet - that you call a joint decision-making body that will decide on what happens on Spanish Television no less than until 2026. I'm a soviet! Also Stalinist because it's for that, for what? To worship the image of the beautiful, forgiveness, of the leader - ah, yes, well, let's say it - because it cannot be more beautiful our leader who comes out of each and every circumstance, pity or shout at him comes out beautiful thanks to interference on Spanish radios and public televisions. That's his propaganda. [[Applauds]] We say two things. The first, article 20.3 of the Constitution is very clear: the law will regulate the organisation and parliamentary control - i.e. from here on, of the social media dependent on the State or any public body. If the Constitution is not clear, we recall that the framework mandate says it has to be independence, neutrality, pluralism, impartiality and rigour. Ja, ja, ja, ja, ja y ja. Six ya. Neither independence nor neutrality nor pluralism nor rigour. I'm finishing up. Just looking at the last few weeks, you've placed someone who was in the last row - and I'm not talking about the band -. And the paradigmatic case we have is not just Spanish Television. If only in the last few weeks we have these scandals on Spanish Television, what can be happening at the EFE Agency, which has no parliamentary control, even though Article 20.3 of the Constitution says so! Look, the EFE Agency has to have parliamentary control and this real propaganda state has to end before interference ends. There are proposals there. We appreciate the contributions that the People's and Citizens' Party has made to us and we are going to work for a compromise, so that independence can be restored. But, look, soon will come the days of freedom in the media, especially in the public media, and freedom of information in Spain, not freedom of propaganda. And in those days we will stop seeing how they march to the sound of their disgusting propaganda. I guarantee that because it will happen, because of course it will happen because it will happen very soon. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u247	Thank you. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Díaz Gómez, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, intervenes. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u248	Thank you, President. The VOX Parliamentary Group presents this motion in a timely manner when Spanish Radio-television has suffered further interference by the political power in this room. The current president of Spanish Radiotelevision is the one who has acceded to the post in the most original way in recent years. Previously it was the finger that the People's Party made changing the majorities when it didn't reach them to put the president they wanted, then it was the decree, as the Socialist Party did naming Rosa María Mateo by royal decree. Subsequently, an appointment of the board of directors by prophecy was made, by which the PP and PSOE elected the members of the board of directors before more than half of the candidates appeared. They have now invented a new system by which the current president of Spanish Radio Television has come to office by assault. The assault brigade that has placed the president of Spanish Radiotelevision has managed to get everyone to agree; and with all I mean that they have managed to get everyone to agree against the procedure to appoint the current president of RTVE: the Information Council, the UGT - the UGT against!-, the other unions of Spanish Radiotelevision, any RTVE worker that I asked you to take your hands to the head with what they have done and any media professional sees that this way the Spanish public media are being loaded. Even congressional lawyers consider that the appointment of Elena Sánchez by the procedure that has been done is illegal. The Government has changed the statutes of Spanish Radio Television to breach the law governing Spanish Radio Television, because in its article 11.2 the law provides that the Congress of Deputies shall appoint from among the ten elected councillors who will serve as president. And what they've done is they've appointed him to a board of directors. As the law has been blown, what they have said is that, well, she was a semi-president, with no executive powers. After a few days of saving the scandal, what they did was give him executive powers by royal decree. In other words, with a rule with a regulatory rank, the law was again broken. What did you do? RTVE has been absolutely assaulted, an assault on fraud of law. That's what they've done. The saddest thing is that all this is paid with public money. And the gentlemen of the PP voted to the directors who have been partners in this assault on Spanish Radio Television. We live in the noisy show where PP and PSOE announced TVE's nominees before the candidates' appearances ended. Almost half were missing when, apart from these Chambers, Genoa and Moncloa announced who were the chosen ones. Then they took care of giving Podemos his quota and PNV his. There is only one party that has not participated in these votes, Citizens. Because we were able to do it when he ruled Mariano Rajoy. It is true that VOX has not participated, but I already tell you that even if they wanted to, they would not have been able. But why? Because I have evidence that, when they can, they will participate, and with that I will close my intervention. Elena Sánchez had been elected by the Socialist Party for a long time to chair Spanish Radio Television, but had not achieved her goal. Elena Sánchez was one of the last in the public competition in terms of score. We've been watching a loud show all this time. I do not want to remind you of what we have seen with the judiciary, which has been absolutely shameful for a mature democracy. The reality is that we, Citizens, have advocated from the outset that the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio Television and its president should be elected by public competition. We share the views of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the EFE Agency. Moreover, I technically commend the solution they put forward so that ESE can be subjected to parliamentary scrutiny in an easy and free manner. I share the work that Mr Mariscal and Mr Sánchez delReal are doing in this area, but I do not share what VOX does outside this House, and I explain myself. One of our amendments seeks that active politicians or those who have held important positions in parties cannot be in the leadership of public media unless five years have passed since they left these positions. Because VOX is asking for this here today, but on Canal Sur he has placed the one who was VOX campaign director in Andalusian. What does my parliamentary group want with this amendment? This amendment seeks VOX to do what it says it is going to do and not to do what it does outside of Congress. Because look, this is the original sin. I know it's tempting to start bringing in Tertullians who speak well of VOX. It's very tempting. We were able to do it when he ruled Mariano Rajoy, they offered him to us and we said no. Gentlemen of VOX, don't go around because you start by putting friends in public media and you end up collecting envelopes or riding ERE. Don't come in, don't open that door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u249	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Fucker, I called you by another name.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u250	Thank you, President. Obviously, I'm not Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel, I'm Mr. Beautiful Carazo. Today, we are again dealing with the situation of institutional crisis experienced by Spanish Radio-television following the Government's interference in public radio and television. Mr Sánchez del Real, with regard to the text of your motion, we agree with your general spirit, but we believe that, given the gravity of the events that have taken place in recent weeks, the text you are proposing is too general and that is why we have tabled a specific amendment, calling for the amendment of the statutes of RTVE to be reversed and for the majority of this House to elect a new adviser and a new president, as the law states. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth recalling the chronology of the events that have affected Spanish Broadcasting in recent months. First, the coalition government is beginning to be dissatisfied with the Spanish Radio-television leadership that we had agreed by a large majority of this House, apparently for not applauding the government enough and not criticizing the People's Party enough. That is why the Government is forcing Mr Pérez Tornero's resignation - it is a replacement of those said by Mrs Margarita Robles - and after having the closest advisers parade through the Moncloa, it chooses the profile that seems most appropriate to its interests. The government then closes the assault on Spanish Radio-television with a new legislative technique, the "agreement". It does not even use the decree law, so that there is no debate; it is dispatched with an agreement of the Council of Ministers for the modification of the statutes of Spanish Radiotelevision, in order to give full executive powers to the interim president of Spanish Radiotelevision, usurping the functions that the law reserves to this House. I would like to remind you that the appointment of Rosa María Mateo by Mr Sánchez after an appeal by the People's Party has already been declared unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, many voices have been raised in the face of this assault on Spanish Radio-television. Firstly, that of the law and legal reports, because the reservation of law made by article 20.3 of the Constitution, stealing the powers of this Chamber, is missed. Because if you actually have the same powers being elected president by this Parliament as you are not, what is being done is to empty that competence of Congress to elect the president of Spanish Radio Television by a two-thirds majority. And the Government cannot allude to the urgency of this change in order to avoid the cessation of Spanish Broadcasting because the board of directors can perfectly assume these functions as long as this interinity is resolved. Or do they want to turn interinity into eternity, as they already did with Rosa Maria Mateo? Or was it that the urgency was to provide a salary of more than 200,000 euros per year to the acting president of Spanish Radiotelevision, a salary that has not had any of the previous interim presidents of Spanish Radiotelevision? Or was it that the urgent thing was to award contracts to friendly producers during an election period and with surveys painting bases for the Socialist Party and for the government of Pedro Sánchez? [[Applauds]] I don't know if that was urgent. But the workers and their representatives have also raised their voices; it has been denounced by USO, the Independent Union and UGT. This morning we learned, according to Mrs Calviño, that the UPC is of the far right, and I do not know whether the UGT is also of the far right, I do not believe, Socialist Party gentlemen. The three Spanish Radiotelevision news councils have called it an unjustifiable and ethically questionable legal argument, and the majority of the intercentre committee has announced that it will challenge it in the courts. By the way, all our recognition and respect for the Spanish RadioTV workers. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] And they have finally raised the voice of the true owners of Spanish Broadcasting, the citizens, who have given our public television and radio the worst historical audience in a month of October after these government maneuvers. We're going from bad to worse. Mr. President, I'm done. The assault on Spanish Radio-television is one more chapter in the true series of Mr Sánchez, that of real life, that of adding interference in the Attorney General's Office, in the CIS, in the INE, in the CNI or in the CNMV; this is simply one more chapter of that assault on the institutions. In the debate of the interpellation, Mr Sánchez del Real quoted Juan Ramón Jiménez and Minister Bolaños quoted Jardiel Poncela; today I want to quote from this rostrum to my countryman, Mr José Zorrilla. Yesterday, seeing Don Juan Tenorio in that theatrical tradition that is held in the days of All Saints, I heard these verses again: 'Wherever I went, / the reason I ran over, / the virtue I mocked, / the justice I mocked, /... and everywhere I left / bitter memory of me'. In this case, he meant Don José Zorrilla to Don Juan, but with this path of assault on the institutions he could perfectly refer to Don Pedro. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u251	Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u252	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The law says that Spanish Radio Television has to be an independent, neutral organism where objectivity reigns; none of that has Spanish Radio Television. But the worst thing is that the least you have is quality, and that you keep throwing public resources, next year 47 million euros more into the budgets. And you know for what? To use a public body at the service of the Socialist Party, at the service of the Government. Because you always do the same with public entities: instead of being a service to all Spaniards you make them a service only of the government. That's what they do to the whole audience. And they do it in a cunning way, because you not only don't have complexes when it comes to manipulating and politicizing any public body, it's that you also do it in an obvious way. You have charged the president of Spanish Radio Television only because he refused to allow you to continue politicizing the entity. But not only that, but you have come and appointed, without going through this Parliament, the person who has given you the will, and through a royal decree you have given him powers that he could not have in an interim manner. And to continue, you have increased the budget by 47 million euros. They always do the same, every time the Socialist Party comes to the government it is dedicated to socializing, and socializing not in the term of making friends or improving society, but to filling any place in the public sphere with socialism. You have filled with socialism the Office of the Prosecutor, the CIS, the National Intelligence Centre, Spanish Radio and even the National Institute of Statistics. They have turned any public body into an agency in the service of the government and everything in order to raise some absolutely regrettable figures, because today we have a public broadcasting corporation that does not reach an audience of 8%. And the worst of all is that we have 6670 workers in that entity and 490 million euros, yet they tell us that they have to hire producer friends to do programming because if not in January they get black. Hey, can you explain to us what you're doing with all this number of public workers and this huge amount of millions of euros? Because you are suddenly very enemies of privatization, you are suddenly very enemies of agreeing with the private, for example, in health - you will bring a law here to avoid the health concerts - and yet then you have no complex, in those entities in which you believe it benefits you, in taking out to private entities what could perfectly be done with this money and with these workers from the public point of view. There's no one to understand them! Or, yes, it is that the public suits you when it is at your service and the concertation when it goes to ideological friendships of your political orbit. That's what they're really doing. And the Spaniards are already tired; I think we deserve to have a public broadcast of quality, objective and in the service of Spain, not the government. Just put money in without thinking about the model we want. The first thing we need to discuss is what kind of model we want for Spanish Radio Television: if we want to promote information, if we want to be leaders in sports, if we want to be leaders in culture, if we want to have debates, if we want to do Spanish cinema, what we want to do, and then look at how many resources we need to do it. And not what you always do, on the other hand, to throw resources, resources, resources and never ask for what you are for. The cow not only needs to be fed, but also needs to know how much the cow needs to be eaten. That is efficiency, something of course that the Socialist Party has never understood. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u253	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u254	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly. The truth is that I have heard words, terms, concepts that, coming from who they come from, the least they cause me is a kind of stupor. The operative part of this motion the truth is that it speaks of matters with purity, with a goodism that is incredible, until we see who the signature and the truth is that they do not coincide, they do not correspond either with their speech or with their political position or with their experience and political reality. That is, it is a kind of pure and harsh contradiction, what they propose and what they are. They accuse everyone of everything and in the intervention of the interpellation it was seen perfectly. So, I'm going to tell you clearly, because I'm going to have half the time left, I don't believe anything you propose. Therefore, my vote will not be taken. [[Rumors]] I mean, we're not going to support your motion, because reality is imposed. Hearing VOX talk about independence, transparency, non-intermission, etc., what you want me to say, is that it's just the reverse, because I'd already like to know what public TV with VOX ruling would be like. [[Rumors]] That would be impressive. He talked about a word, he liked the impartial thing, already. There was a newspaper, The Imparcial. They remember, don't they? It'll probably be something like that. The truth is that the public television model has many flaws and all those issues that have been mentioned here today and the other day with which we do not agree very much, but imagine the public television with a VOX government, the truth is that it makes me tremble. Because you talk about criteria, when you are the kings of fake news, when you are a political party that prevents the entry of some media to your press. What confidence, what independence, what impartiality do we have to expect from a political party that proposes that in the world of communication? Of everything you've said, I just like one word, independence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u255	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u256	Thank you very much, President. There is a rhetorical figure called oximoron, which consists of bringing together two concepts of opposite meaning in the same expression. I'm going to make an oxymoron: impartiality, independence and VOX. That's an oxymoron. That doesn't add up because the VOX Inquisition Court, which decides who is good Spanish or who is good journalist, now wants to give us lessons in impartiality. Víctor González Coello, vice president of VOX, April 2019: If we govern, we will close LaSexta. Jorge Buxade, national spokesman for VOX, October 2022: If we govern, we will review the concession of La Sixtha. Comrade Ortega Smith: The media have become propaganda pamphlets. He says what a pamphlet is and what it isn't. In addition - as has already been said - many journalists are banned from participating in their press conferences or their headquarters, including, for example, the Diario.es or expeling dozens of journalists from all the media in the whatsapp group, the SER, El Plural, Onda Zero, but El Español as well. They must also be very pamphletaries for them. And what do they do when they rule? Castile and Leon, award to related media, broadcasts. Who? Radio Maria who, as everyone knows, is a radio station that everyone is waiting to hear. Radio Maria, twenty-two more stations - twenty-two, twenty-two! - the SER, the most heard medium, only two more. It turns out there's a big demand from Radio Maria. In short, independence and impartiality. Castile-La Mancha Radio Television, you manage a private television model, with a concession to an entrepreneur condemned in the plot of Gürtel, to that you give and renew the concession. Moreover, it is a model that workers have denounced, a model of information manipulation and, in addition, of bad working conditions, but not only the workers - because they are also communists - but CSIF - the Independent Trade Union Central of officials, which, as you know, are dangerous communists and revolutionaries - has denounced that model for orientation and manipulation of the political information of their information, which is far from what would be a true, objective and credible means of communication. And they come here to teach us lessons of impartiality and independence. Your defachance, your cynicism and your shame have no limits; as you say on my earth, what you have is more expensive than back. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u257	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The right and the extreme right again showing that they are interested in public television, again. We saw it a few weeks ago, with that Citizens' PNL that seemed to be very interesting to them, but then it didn't say anything, and now we see it with this VOX motion. Mr. Sánchez del Real, I appreciate you telling us we're good at propaganda. Not bad. Now, let me also tell you that you are very, very good at creating fake news, in fact, you are a fake news. [[Laughter and applause]] It's funny, isn't it? It's funny because the groups that present these things are the same ones that are all day puffed up by some media, not by everyone, by some, and now they seem to be worried about what happens to public television, of course, as they don't control it, what happens. The whitening of the extreme right by some media is brazen, we have even been able to see it effectively on public television in some cases, but here absolutely nothing happens, because nobody raises the voice to denounce it, just a few. We told him a few weeks ago in the PNL we were talking about Citizens; others who do dance by the way. The only thing that worries you is your screen fee, all that worries you about public television is the screen fee. If they don't, they don't worry anymore. On the other hand, the workers who give them, right? That's not your concern. It is truly worrying that so far we have had a public television as a means of misinformation, with its former president at the head, instead of being a means of information, which is what it has to be, on top of which we all pay. Let's hope the new president changes that, we'll see. Journalists have an obligation to inform, but to really inform, to inform with the truth. And I know in good faith that many and many do so by always prioritizing the truth about manipulation or lying, however much the latter is much more juicy for some. However, reporting with the truth sometimes creates enemies, especially on the part of those who never report with the truth, but, as we said, with manipulation and lies, and these enemies usually put sticks in the wheel to those who truly do their work in a professional, ethical and truthful way. Even in this house, in Congress, some journalists have to endure on the part of supposed comrades - and I use many quotes - disqualifications or actions that make their day to day more difficult, but that you do not denounce, ladies and gentlemen of the far right. Of course, it's their like-minded means that do it, of course. Does that sound like 'we don't participate in ultra-right media bubbles' to you? Well, that's it. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Fascist Group of the House, the lessons can be applied to others, not to us, neither here nor on public television. [[protests]] Republican Left always bets on professional, diverse, plural and rigorous public television, such as the one we have in Catalonia. I think the television we have in Catalonia is a great example. [[Laughter]] You know why? Because you're never gonna control her, ever. Finally, we understand that everything can change and hope that Spanish Radio Television will change a lot and for good with the new president at the head. We will give you a vote of confidence and we sincerely hope that you will not waste it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u258	Thank you. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u259	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Put the wolf to take care of the sheep or, what is the same, the censors giving lessons of independence in the public media. Who are you, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about the quality of the media, if you have been indiscriminately killing dozens of media in your actions and denying accreditations to journalists in your rallies for years? What respect do you have for the media, if you are dedicated, interviewing after interview, lying, because you live precisely from misinformation? What I want to do today is to value the professionalism of so many journalists in this country who don't shut up to their lies and dismantle them. We all think of very diverse professionals, such as Gemma Nierga, Julia Otero or even Mr. Carlos Alsina. But, preparing for this motion, I was led by that sketch that starred Mr Espinosa de los Monteros just on the programme The night in 24 hours of Spanish Radio Television with Mr. Xabier Fortes, do you remember? When he showed that flyer in which many communication professionals appeared to whom you accused of collecting a lot of public money. It will be the law of the funnel. You can see that the 112,000 euros that Mr Espinosa de los Monteros is charging seem good to you, but when you are professionals in communication, those who are charging money no longer seem so good to you. Let's see if Mr Espinosa stretches out and already pays the 60,000 euros he still owes to the workers who built him his cottage. [[Applauds]] Because what really bothers you is that there are public radio and television professionals who are just defending the human rights of the collectives you are trying to denigrate with your lies. But if you take the media debate to a list of names, I'll do the same, see if they ring. Fernando Moya, former coordinator of VOX in Barcelona: 'Manipulated the collection of signatures'. Nuria Almagro, former VOX councillor: 'Toledans' taxes should go to the national leadership of the party'. Juan Jara, VOX's former first vice president: 'VOX is a chiringuito for Abascal'. Luismi Núñez, former provincial president of Toledo: 'VOX is a cult in which they worship the leader'. Macarena Olona, who doesn't need a presentation: 'I hear that internal democracy is lacking and there are disrespectful deals within VOX'. Conclusion: freedom of expression, impartiality or media independence are values incompatible with the far right. Tell the truth, dare. They say this in their electoral program, in the letter f - and I read literally -: Elimination of the apparatuses of public propaganda, radio, television and written press. The same ones that you then use to tell lies and generate hatred, as Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina did with the Thirteen Roses, since even the prosecution had to tell him that it was a hate crime. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, your alternative to public radio and television already knows what it is: it is the monopoly of disinformation with absolutely 'impartial' means such as Diario, esRadio or like that which our friend Toni Sung in the Community of Madrid to continue defaming and telling lies while feeding his pockets of public money. It's not that you're bothered by subsidies or public spending, what you don't like is that those investments are going to stop communication professionals, programs, channels and people who are dedicated to uncovering the lies you say every time you go to an interview. Are you going to do something about it? Do you have any credibility, Mr Sánchez, with the 13% increase in subsidies for Mrs Ayuso's Telemadrid? You are the brave right to end Spanish Radio Television, but you are the coward right when it is Mrs. Ayuso who confronts you. Not to finance the trade unions, but Mr. Abascal's chiringuite does. Not to finance a quality TV, but the 10 million public that received VOX in 2021 yes. Not to finance professional journalists, but to its Dissenso Foundation, financed with 92 000 euros in public aid and which will get 112,000 this year, yes. Therefore, those who live through misinformation cannot be defenders of the right to information. That is why we will always support these professionals, because they are, ladies and gentlemen, the best health cord against their bubbles, threats and authoritarianism. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u260	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u261	This motion is one of the greatest exercises of cynicism of the right rancia and anti-democratic that we could attend. [[Applauds]] In addition, it is an insult to the professionalism and good doing of Spanish Radiotelevision workers. It is a clear example of how systematically the right says one thing and does just the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the time of candidity has already run out for you, you now support governments and even govern and, woe!, where you govern you teach the duck. You claim to Radiotélévisiona Española a plurality and a system of choice that, on the other hand, do not put into practice when you have the opportunity. A system of election - that of Spanish Radio Television - and members of the board of directors who have been elected by these General Courts, by Congress and by the Senate, and also by qualified majority. A system of election that reinforces the necessary majority thanks to the Socialist Group. Or do we not remember when the People's Party amended the law passed by Zapatero so that it will suffice with an absolute majority? Do you remember Mr. Urdaci's public television with the PP? Do you remember the public broadcast on which your president boasted that he had always voted for the PP and that he was going to continue to do so? It was José Antonio Sánchez and went to the Joint Control Commission of the RTVE Corporation here, in parliamentary office, and it stayed so wide. At that time, there were dozens of quarterly allegations of manipulation, between fifty and seventy on average. It was a glorious time, what a doubt! It was the same one that appeared in the papers of Bárcenas, the one who collected as an advisor to the PP while acting as parliamentary correspondent of ABC, the one who said that the Valley of the Fallen is a cemetery with the names and surnames of all those who are there. Come on, a democracy adealid! But, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you will tell me that with that you had nothing to do with it, that it was perpetuated by the common People's Party. But what happens now in Telemadrid? Is Madrid's autonomous television an example of plurality? Of course it is not, and it is not because of the necessary participation of VOX. In April Isabel Díaz Ayuso took full control of Madrid's autonomous television, fell to the previous direction with a legislative reform similar to that carried out by the PP in Spanish Radiotelevision to avoid the need for a qualified majority, and VOX did not oppose, abstained, washed his hands and, thus, facilitated the reform for Ayuso to do and undo in Telemadrid, to choose the director general and the advisors. And now they're coming here to teach us lessons? Do you and the PP want to give lessons to us, to the PSOE, when we have always defended qualified majorities for the election of the Board of Directors of Spanish Broadcasting? Do you want to give us lessons to those who want to unlock the situation on Spanish RadioTV? To the party fighting to unlock the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary? Is the blocking right really trying to teach us lessons? What they have to do - and now I am addressing the People's Group bench in particular - is to facilitate the election of the new president and the interim presidency of Mrs Elena Sánchez will end. [[Applauds]] Do it, stop blocking the institutions! They respect democracy, they respect the Constitution once and for all, because the Socialists and the Socialists will be delighted and the current interim president will be. But I am very afraid that they have no intention of doing so, neither VOX nor PP are for democracy in the institutions. They show it every day in the government of Castile and León, where they subsidize a private television that manipulates the desire of the autonomous government. Also there the Socialist Party tried to reverse the situation. We are presenting an initiative that has not prospered. And guess why? Well, yeah, 'cause we got knocked down by the PP and VOX partners. Although Juan García-Gallardo had said in the campaign that he was going to withdraw the subsidy to the Radiotelevision of Castile and León, last summer he dropped more than 20 million so that he could continue to exalt the macho and anti-democratic outings and hide the president's barbasades. And when in Andalusia VOX was someone, he also enjoyed autonomous television. Journalists In Struggle denounced a couple of years ago the manipulated information treatment of the episode in which a deputy of VOX had insulted the President of Parliament. The professionals accused Canal Sur of shameful whitening of fascist and sexist attitudes, claiming that this is how it controls the information in Andalusian Radiotelevision. Do you realize why I was telling you at the beginning of my speech that your motion is an exercise in cynicism? I insist on it and I think I'm short. Ladies and gentlemen, less pretentious motions and more democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u262	Mr Sánchez del Real, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u263	For allusions...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u264	One moment, answer me first to the question I asked you and then we'll go to the other topic.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u265	Yes, we accept them and will refer a compromise amendment to the Bureau with the People's and Citizens' Parliamentary Groups. I am asking for the floor for references under article 71.3 and article 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u266	Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u267	It is with regard to the statements made expressly by Mr Álvarez i García, who said that we are 'the fascist group of the House', Mr Baldoví about whom we govern in Castile-La Mancha and Mr Mena about the alleged threats that have been poured out. I mean the three of us, and I can group them together in a brief answer... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u268	Thank you. [[A Member: Does he give you the floor or not? .-Another honourable Member: Do you have the floor?- Rumors]] Talk in the other microphone, it's just you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u269	With regard to the remarks of Mr Álvarez i García, who has specifically said 'the Fascist Group of the House', I will tell you that the only Fascist Party or with Fascist Heritage of the House is ERC...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u270	Your Honor, one second. Let's see, I won't give you the floor anymore because you can't open the debate anymore. You defend strictly. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: I'm answering. The only fascist party in the House...]] Listen to me for a second. Can you hear me, please? You defend yourself against allusions that have been made, but do not broaden the debate because, if not, I will withdraw the floor. So, if you stick strictly to the allusions that have been made, I will leave you the floor; otherwise, I will withdraw you so that you do not continue to open any further debates. You have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u271	With regard to the reference to the fact that there is a fascist group in this House, I refer to the foregoing. There's only one who has a fascist heritage...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-11-02-CD221102.u272	Thank you so much. The plenary is over. Ladies and gentlemen, see you tomorrow. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real: About the alleged threats...]] Your Honor, the session is over. We'll continue tomorrow. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended. It was three and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
