ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, we Spaniards have courageously built one of the great democracies of the world, in the face of many threats, such as the one that lived in this House just forty-one years ago today in a coup d'état. We were able to overcome them enmities and fractures with an exemplary constitutional pact, with loyalty and gratitude to those who preceded us. Concordia and reconciliation have since guided the lives of all Spaniards in the face of bitterness and anger. Spain found itself and found its place in the world, conquering freedom and prosperity. Today I reiterate to you what I said to you in your investiture debate: that our responsibility was to widen the space of centrality so that, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, we could win in it, without the need for pacts with those who do not believe in Spain or alliances with those who attacked it. This has always been the path of my party, in which four of the seven parents of the Constitution, the political family that founded the European Union, the home of so many victims of terrorism who gave their lives for freedom and the engine that has created millions of jobs to sustain well-being. At this very difficult time, at the end of a terrible pandemic and at the beginning of an international crisis, it is our duty to restore tranquillity to our elders, hope to our families and illusion to our young people. I hope that the Government will put itself at the service of the general interest with respect for the institutions, for national unity and for the equality of all Spaniards, because it is to them that we owe, to no one else. I understand politics from the defense of the noblest principles and values, from respect for the adversaries and the surrender to the comrades, all to serve Spain and the cause of freedom, because that is the future that our children deserve and that we must build together. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Mr Casado Blanco stands up and turns to his parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, from the difference and political discrepancy that has been manifested in many control sessions, I wish you the best in personal terms. The government, what's it in? The Government is in the process of overcoming this health emergency of COVID-19; it is in the fight against inequality, widening freedoms and rights in a society like ours, deeply unequal; it is in the consolidation of economic recovery and also job creation; and it is in the use of European funds to modernize our economy and gain in competitiveness. It happens, Your Honor, that in these two years the opposition has settled in constant disqualification, denying even an essential democratic principle such as the very legitimacy and existence of this Government emanating from the popular will and legitimate representation in the General Courts. We are not going to act like this, ladies and gentlemen; we are very clear about our responsibility to Spain and to the Spanish. Spain needs stability and economic recovery, and this Government is going to give stability and economic recovery. That is why - because I have heard it in the media and there have been analysts who are also raising it - I am announcing to you that the Government of Spain will not advance the general elections nor will it dissolve the General Courts in advance. We're not doing it. [[Applauds]] We are not going to do this because, as much as you have committed yourself to the contrary, this is a government with a sense of state and this is a government that is going to put the general interests before any other type of interest. The general elections will be convened when appropriate and then, the parties that are here, legitimately, we will compete to win those elections. I already tell you that we will compete on the basis of our merits and not on the basis of the weaknesses of our opponents. Thus, Your Honor, it is how we interpret and understand democratic patriotism. [[Applause.-Pause.-Mr Casado Blanco leaves the Chamber.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MR. MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK THE GOVERNMENT IS EFFECTIVE IN THE MEASURES FOR ECONOMIC RECOVERY? [[File number 180/000795]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u5	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u6	Thank you. Do you believe that the Government is being efficient in recovery measures?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I am convinced that we can all agree that the Spanish Government is doing a lot, but that much remains to be done. It is clear that since the beginning of the legislature and as a result of the pandemic, the Government has, first and foremost, put in place a multitude of measures to resist the pandemic from a health, economic and social point of view. I believe that the ERTE and ICO credits that we have deployed over the years to sustain the activity of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country can be, let us say, the paradigms, the most visible example for the citizens of this issue. Subsequently, what we have done has been to reactivate the economy and, finally, what we are doing, together with the European funds, is to consolidate that economic recovery and job creation. Does this mean everything's been done right? No, no, Does this mean that we are satisfied and that there is no task ahead? Neither. There is a lot of work ahead, and that is why I believe that Spain needs stability and economic recovery, which is what we are going to give it in these two years that remain of the legislature. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u9	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u10	Mr Sánchez, I was asking you whether the Government was being efficient in implementing these measures, because being efficient, in general terms, is the ability to do things right, without wasting it; that is, quite the opposite of what the different Spanish governments, including their own, are doing. To illustrate a little bit the term I will compare between two different countries, without saying what two countries are. There is a first country, according to the European Commission - it ranks last on the list of European countries in the economic recovery ranking. And there is a second country, it grows above the European average. The entrepreneurial activity rate in the first country is 5.2%; in the second country, it is 6.6%. The first country secretly modifies its Constitution to pay more than €60 billion in public money to the bank. The second country presents a proposal for a law to oblige banks to pay to end the financial exclusion. The first country, according to Eurostat, is the country where public debt grew the most. The second country is considered the best territory in Europe for foreign investment. The largest companies in the first country have a debt of more than €80 billion to small and medium-sized enterprises. The second country is growing by 21.5 % in exports, above the European average of 17.1 %. The capital of the first country does not appear in the world top ten of the reference cities in innovation. The capital of the second country is considered the fourth world reference city in innovation. The first is a monarchy; a defective democracy according to The Economist. The second country has voted to be a republic. If you had to choose to live in one of these two countries, which one would you choose? Mr Sánchez, Spain is not going well, and I hope you are clear that the weakness of the People's Party and Mr Casado does not make you stronger. Everything has been hanging on a thread in the Kingdom of Spain for too long. Thank you, and visca Catalunya liure, rich and full.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Anyway, let's see how I tell him. With all the problems that societies have, the most important thing is union, is to add strength, is to understand that it is much better to share than to compete, which is definitely much more interesting to collaborate than to confront, which is what you are committed to. And I believe that Catalan society does not follow that line. I believe that Catalan society wants to overcome the trauma of 2017, wants to re-establish coexistence, to bet on concord and, ultimately, to leave behind speeches that obviously do not correspond to the challenges facing Catalan society and Spanish society. In any case, I'll always tell you one thing, Your Honor. We have a deep respect for Catalan society, for each and every citizen of Catalan society, vote what they vote for and think what they think. All I ask of you is that you have the same respect for the rest of those Catalan compatriots in the rest of Spain, think what you think and vote for. That is called concordia and that is to live up to the needs and challenges of Catalan society and Spanish society. Don't disrespect the rest of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIRL GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK YOUR GOVERNMENT IS HELPING THE SPANISH FAMILIES TO overcome the enormous difficulties caused by the economic crisis and the escalation of prices? [[File number 180/00801]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u13	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u14	First of all, I would like to wish the best personally to Mr Pablo Casado and very well to the next leadership of the People's Party, which is a very important party for our country. Mr Sánchez, do you believe that your Government is helping Spanish families in the face of the difficulties caused by the crisis and the rise in prices?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. We can probably do a lot more, no doubt. But we have also done much to protect and improve the living conditions of the citizens of our country, and that is no abstraction. Yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, we approved a further increase in the inter-branch minimum wage to EUR 1000. Recently we also approved a re-evaluation of pensions according to the CPI for our elderly. Yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, we approved the new schematic so that 850,000 students from all over the country can access the scholarships and thus guarantee their studies and the future employability of these young people in Spain. So, Your Honor, we're doing a lot. Is there much to do? No doubt. Are the challenges ahead, in terms of social and territorial inequality, serious in our country? Also. But this Government is making progress in everything that represents the rights and freedoms of our country. Your Honor, I would like to say that, in any case, the energy crisis, the price and electricity crisis is not alien to the rest of Europe. It is happening in all countries and, in the end, all countries are taking the same measures: protecting vulnerable consumers, betting on renewable energy, which is the most competitive energy, as well as guaranteeing our country's energy autonomy. Competitive from the industrial point of view, but also competitive from the point of view of the user, the end consumer, the citizens on foot. Your Honor, remember that one of the first measures we put in place was, for example, to eliminate the evil so-called sun tax and, therefore, to encourage self-consumption, which is currently at unprecedented rates of increase during these years. What we are doing too, Your Honor, is protecting vulnerable consumers. A million and a half vulnerable consumers are now being protected with different forms of social bonds, precisely to ensure energy supply at reasonable prices. And finally, Your Honor, yesterday we approved in the Council of Ministers a further extension of the social shield, among other issues, so that, until the housing law is passed, evictions in our country are prohibited. In short, Your Honor, there are so many things to do. The challenges ahead are of enormous importance, of enormous gravity. The main thing is inequality - social and territorial inequality - and that is where the Government is committed, Your Honor, to continuing to move forward and I hope that we can do so with the help of its parliamentary group as well. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u17	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u18	Mr Sánchez, do you know that filling the deposit costs 20 euros more today than a year ago? Do you know that the rent of many families in January has risen 50, 80 and even 120 euros for inflation? Have you recently gone to the supermarket to buy and seen how the prices of meat, fish, fruit or vegetables have risen? It is that I want to talk about the great forgotten of Spain, of the working families who charge more than the interprofessional minimum wage, but who do not have great salaries and do have great expenses every month. These families never receive anything, neither the minimum living income, nor the social bonus of light, nor the official floor of protection, nor the social rent, nor the scholarships, nor anything, never touch them. They are the ones who, when they hear a minister do some supposed help, know that they will not be touched to receive anything, but they will continue to pay, paying the quota of self-employed, paying more taxes, the particular classes of their children, their rent or their mortgage, etc. They're the ones we call the super payers who support the system. And yes, we already know that inflation is not just a problem in Spain, but that prices here have risen by 32% more than the eurozone average, much more than in Portugal, than in France, than in Italy or Germany. In addition, in other countries you lower taxes and you raise them. I'm going to make three very specific requests. First, forget the sablazo to the autonomous posed by Mr Escrivá, which is a real outrage. Secondly, renounce the massive rise in taxes they want to impose, which we already know is not being paid by the rich, but by all Spaniards. And thirdly and very important, Mr Sánchez, they adapt the IRPF to inflation, because if they do not, they will again make a tax increase, but this time covert. We need fiscal relief so that families can compensate for that loss of purchasing power. I assure you that this is what takes the dream away from the Spaniards and it is time, indeed, for your government to stop crushing the people who are raising this country every day without mercy. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO TO RECOVER THEM MORE THAN 100,000 ENTERPRISES THAT HAVE CLOSED FROM THAT YOU ARE MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL AFFAIRS? [[File number 180/00803]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u19	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u20	Thank you, President. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I should like to record the great respect and thanks to the President of the People's Party, Mr Pablo Casado Blanco. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President, you have been a minister of the economy for more than three and a half years and in this period almost 104,000 companies have been forced to close. Today it will blame everyone, but the reality is that, if you keep this pace, with you the blind 76 companies down every day. What do you plan to do to recover our economic and business fabric? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u21	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u22	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Gamarra, since June 2018 our economic policy has been geared to supporting entrepreneurship and business growth, to attracting investment and talent, and during the long months of the pandemic to protect our productive fabric, employment and family incomes, and that will allow us to have a strong recovery and remain in the same line during these years. But also, Mrs Gamarra, let me say that between June 2018 and December 2021 324 000 companies were set up. Even by removing the 100,000 that may have closed in this period, we would have 245 000 companies set up in net terms. Mrs Gamarra, please start making an opposition based on truth and not on half truths, misrepresentation of data and facts, and constant negative messages that do not contribute at all to the general interest. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u23	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u24	Madam Vice President, open your eyes. You have left us in the tail car of economic recovery because you do not want to hear absolutely anyone. After the Plus Ultra scandal we already denounced what was happening, for example, with SEPI's rescue fund. And now we know, moreover, that the last step of the Government is to declare management secret. For what? So that you do not have to be held accountable and so that we do not know under what criteria the beneficiary companies are selected, and that neither can you know how much money they inject - public money, from all Spaniards - to each of them. Nor has he told us why only 26% of ICO loans have been made available, when, for example, we see how many self-employed people do not know how to float their business every day. They have designed - you have designed and maintained - a macroeconomic picture that no one is believed and that what it does is to reduce credibility in this country. That is what makes, for example, that foreign investment - data, Mrs Calviño - has fallen by 27,5 % compared to 2019 or, for example, that we are bearing a debt that increases by 9 million euros every hour that passes. Mrs. Calviño, every hour that goes by in the morning and in the evening. But it is that, in addition, you could have opted for different things, for example, to lower taxes, as other European countries that are doing much better than this country. But what have they done? To raise taxes - the only thing the Socialist Party knows how to do - not only to families, but also to the productive fabric, which cannot with the rise of light, the rise of fuels or raw materials. Besides, you, Mrs Calviño, know that we have the highest inflation in the last thirty years and so it is still impossible to recover. Protect the productive and business fabric; listen to the self-employed and the SMEs. It's a cry! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u25	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u26	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Gamarra, I really don't know what your sources of information are. More than EUR 130 billion has been mobilised in public guarantees managed by the ICO. All information on beneficiaries of recovery funds is published in the relevant transparency portals. We have reduced debt by 1.3% in 2021, even in such a difficult context, and the results in terms of deficit and debt on GDP are below the government's objectives. Your Honor, this is a government committed to accountability, serenity, stability, good governance and the defence of general interests. That is what we have been doing during these three and a half years and, as I was saying, I hope that we can push forward this process of support for entrepreneurship, business growth, investment and talent through the Recovery Plan; in addition to investments, through reforms such as the Crea and Growing Bill, the Startup Bill, the Competition Reform Bill and all other structural reforms that aim precisely to promote a strong, sustained and sustainable economic recovery, which creates quality employment and improves the prosperity and prospects of future generations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO YOU THINK THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC PROVISIONS ARE RELIABLE? [[File number 180/000798]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u27	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, it has been at the forefront of this government's economic policy for almost four years now and you have made a mistake in each and every one of the macro forecasts you have been making. It was you who said that the epidemic would have an unsignificant and transitory impact. It was you who claimed that the recovery would be in the form of grapes, which predicted last year that Spain would grow by 9.8%, when it really grew by half, by 5%. The question is whether you believe the government's economic forecasts are reliable. But before I answer, and since you're talking about the truth, I remind you that in last week's question you answered me one falsehood after another, up to nine. Look, let's tell lies. One. He told me: the Government's response to the pandemic has been effective. The truth is that, according to the University of Cambridge, Spain was the worst country to manage it. Two. He stated that the Government has been effective in protecting companies. The reality is that today there are 78,000 companies missing that existed before the crisis. Three. You argued that we managed to maintain employment, and the truth is that we are the country that has destroyed the most employment in Europe. Four. You said that the measures were effective in protecting the incomes of families. The data show that the largest drop in income of households on the continent has occurred in Spain. Five. You told us about a strong recovery, forgetting that we are the only country in the European Union, and I dare say from the West, that you have not yet recovered the level of gross domestic product prior to the pandemic. Six. You spoke of an extraordinary labour market, when two years later we have not recovered effective employment in the private sector and we continue to lead Europe's unemployment. The lack of employment that has been created has been in the public sector. That's cheating on the solitaire, Minister. You are. It came to us to say - this is already of northern aurora - that you are lowering taxes, when you have not left a tax behind. Eight. You hid yourself talking about inflation in the context of global evolution, as if the government had nothing to do with what is happening in Spain, and it is that we are ending the year 2021 with the highest inflation rate of the major euro economies. Nine. He argued that energy policy would allow us to have cheaper energy, when what he has done has been to put us all at the highest prices in history. Nine lies in a minute and thirteen seconds, minister, a mark of reach of very few. Almost no one can believe them anymore. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u29	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, the truth is that we can be with this pimpon every week and, as you say, listen to figures - certainly different from those that Mrs Gamarra has just used in her question - and a population of ideas and comparisons that do not respond at all to what the citizens feel this government has done, that it has been to protect employment, to protect businesses, to protect the incomes of families and to achieve with it a solid basis for recovery that is already real and that is also reaching the families of our country. And this is good news. In fact, I believe that we should all be pleased that Spain has recovered more than 20 million employed people, that the unemployment rate has fallen to 13.3%, that we are tackling an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, that we are also succeeding in reducing the deficit and debt in a GDP ratio faster than we had anticipated, and that tax revenues are evolving positively without raising taxes. All this is good news, because it means that there are 600,000 more families in which all their members are occupied, 100,000 less families in which all their members are unemployed. This, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, is the reality in which we find ourselves, and this responds to a government that has had a prudent, responsible economic policy, trying to respond effectively and decisively to the challenges that we have had over the past three and a half years, of course, more remarkable challenges over the past two years. Thanks to this, we are already beginning to absorb the tax cost of responding to the pandemic, and this is important for future generations. What I do understand, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, is that they do not like our economic policy, because it is based on fiscal responsibility, social justice and progressive structural reforms, looking to the future, and this, of course, does not correspond to your programme. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u31	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, in your case, progressives are to progress what portfoliors are to portfolio; you are the worst economic disaster that Spain has experienced since the Civil War. [[Applauds]] You can fool some people some time, but, as Lincoln said, you can't fool all people all the time. The Spaniards know perfectly well what economic situation they are in. The Spanish know that we have not yet recovered even the pre-pandemic levels. The Spaniards know we're not going to get ahead until we tackle this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u34	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, may you say and try to compare the government that has existed since the end of the Civil War and obviate the dictatorship says a lot about your democratic convictions. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE [[EAJ-PNV]] AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT POLITICAL, STRATEGIC, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION PLANNING IS GOVERNMENT WITH REGARD TO EUROPEAN FUNDS? [[File number 180/000797]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u35	Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u36	Thank you, President. Vice President, the Recovery Plan is an opportunity, but its balance sheet of 2021 also leaves many grey areas. First grey zone, autonomous communities. You are not in the design of the plan and yet you are now going to apply to Europe for 70 billion in the form of loans. Are you going to involve the autonomous communities this time in the design of the actions and reforms in this addendum, in this extension of the plan they have to present to Europe? On the other hand, can we address the entire flow of funds without co-governance and with territorial administrations that have practically the same capacities that they had before the pandemic because we did not want to address the reform of Royal Decree-Law 36/2020, which is still in a drawer? Second gray zone, autonomic projects. In Euskadi we have three projects: mobility, advanced therapies and data economy. It is necessary to know whether we will be able to count on these European funds, for when this answer? How many Projects will be chosen by Autonomous Community? What are the selection criteria? What will be the procedure, competitive competition or direct nomination? In projects that coincide with other autonomous communities, what process will be followed for this election? Third grey zone, state LOSS. Announced, yes, with published bases, but they are not operational, there are no calls and therefore no requests can be made. The PARTE, therefore, are in stand by. Fourth gray zone, SMEs. Frustration, they don't know the way forward. There is an information web page with a lot of information, yes, but it is a maraña and one gets lost. SMEs need, of course, to know in a simple and agile way what the aid is, what the calls are, what deadlines they are going to have and what the managing bodies are. What do they foresee in this regard? We want to know what measures they are going to take to simplify all the mechanisms for funds to reach SMEs, because they are not coming and so they are telling us. In the face of all these grey areas, Vice-President, what political, strategy, management and implementation planning does the Government envisage in terms of European funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u37	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u38	Thank you, President. Mrs Sagastizabal, the truth is that from the outset we have been aware of the need to have unprecedented instruments and strong instruments of co-governance in order to be able to deploy the Recovery Plan as effectively as possible and to reach all citizens in all the territories of our country. Thanks to the territorial structure we have, there is a division of competences which has also been taken into account when designing the various programmes. This is a country plan, it is a plan that must necessarily make us all move in the same direction if we are to have a significant macroeconomic impact. That is why more than 60 sectoral conferences in the various fields have been held, in addition to the specific sectoral conference chaired by the Minister of Finance. For this reason, we have distributed over EUR 12 billion to the Autonomous Communities so that they can launch their calls, and I am also aware that the Government of the Basque Country is already announcing its calls these days. In addition, we have promoted the Social Dialogue Bureau for the participation of social actors and I am visiting the various autonomous communities with a constructive dialogue; I have to say that with the lehendakari I had an exchange, which I think was constructive, to see how we were going to articulate these structural projects in the best possible way. The Parties, the strategic projects, are already being launched; in fact, the Green Hydrogen, Storage and Renewable Energy PART has already launched its calls; the same is true of the state-of-the-art health LOSS and in the coming weeks we will launch the most important call of the VEC LOSS, the electric and connected vehicle. In addition, we have published on the website the calls for the next semester and we are making a huge effort to get the information to the SMEs and the self-employed, because that is our goal, Your Honor, a goal that also requires the loyalty of all public administrations. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u39	Mrs. Sagastizabal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u40	Thank you, Vice President. The truth is that, despite everything you say to me, despite all that planning, we continue to observe those grey areas. Co-governance shines out of its absence at these sectoral conferences, because it is either you take it or you leave it and does not take into account the reality of the territories. Moreover, what we ask you to do is really think about these grey areas constructively, because this also depends on the success of the plan. The Autonomous Communities are not competitors of their Government, they are allies, because they really know their territorial, economic and social reality, their weaknesses and their strengths in order to address all those projects...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u42	Mrs Sagastizabal, during 2022 we will reach the cruising speed in the Recovery Plan and I believe, as you very well pointed out, that we must continue to work together to improve procedures that, as I have pointed out earlier, have no precedent. We have had to put in place a set of mechanisms with the aim of maximizing the efficiency of co-governance with autonomous communities and municipalities. It is a process of constant improvement in which, of course, we will involve the various political groups and, of course, the autonomous governments as well. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DIEGO MOVELLÁN LOMBILLA, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPUTY DONEDORO GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND MINISTER OF THE SECOND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: CONSIDER THE SECOND PERIOD THAT THIS GOVERNMENT DEFENDS THE RIGHTS OF AUTHORS IN EXECUTIVELY? [[File number 180/00804]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u43	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Diego Movellán Lombilla, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u44	Mrs. Díaz, a few hours ago I heard you talking about yourself saying that you wanted to start and lead a listening project, and I was wondering, how will you be able to lead a Yolanda Díaz listening project when you make deaf ears to each and every one of the demands of this country's self-employed workers? Listen, Minister. In January, 521 self-employed people closed their business every day, 16,000 in just one month; six out of ten invoiced 50% less than before the pandemic, and 70% claim not to have recovered today. Thousands of self-employed people don't even know how ICO loans will be able to pay and meanwhile the light, gas, diesel and shopping basket keep coming up. If you really listened to someone you would know that collecting the direct aid that they have so much announced is simply an impossible mission. Madam Minister, business is closing, aid is not coming and the accidents at work of self-employed workers have increased by 13% last year. With this panorama, tell me, do you think your Government is properly defending workers' rights? I'm listening. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u45	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u46	Your Honor, yes, the self-employed and also the self-employed. [[Rumors]] I tell you that because of that slip you had with me and the difficulty you have in understanding equality between men and women. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u47	Mr. Movellan.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u48	I see you don't listen or answer. Is all your government has to offer to the Spanish autonomous in this country at its worst is a bite on the wallet, a fiscal shambles to pay more for those who charge less? Do us a favor, Mrs. Díaz, and spare the weekly chatter talking about the governments of the People's Party, because they don't listen to it anymore. You just have to go to Eurostat, the INE or the EPA to get the colors out of you. Of course the number of self-employed has increased in the last year!, but do you know who they are? The 55-year-olds. And you know why? Because they're leaving us a country where at that age you either believe your own job or throw yourself on Mondays in the sun. They have no other way but to sign up for the RETA and try to survive, Mrs. Díaz. And look, now that you announce that you are going to travel all of Spain from north to south, from east to west, do us a favor and really listen to the autonomous, who are also the people. The Spaniards know that the People's Party is the party of the autonomous and they also know that everyone in this country who invests, risks and strives becomes an enemy to the left. Take it seriously, Mrs. Díaz, more than four million jobs are at stake and not just your face on an election poster. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u49	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u50	Your Honor, I'm going to give you an X-ray of who are the autonomous and the autonomous in our country. There are 3,340,000 people, of whom, Mr. Movellán, 2,030,000 are natural persons. Of these, a small part, a little more than 400 000, have some person hired and, look, at the top, at the fork above, there are almost a million autonomous and autonomous who are part of corporate formulas. The question I ask the People's Party is, when you speak of protecting the autonomous and autonomous, who do you refer to, the above or the below? I am clear to you that the Spanish Government is addressing this social majority of self-employed people, which is 2,030,000. I'd like to know what the People's Party stands for. But, look - answering the question - you will be given two facts, Mr Movellán. One, the protection that the self-employed and self-employed have received in our country has been historic: 1.5 million workers have received a cessation benefit. Look in the annals of history and you will see that it has never existed; one in two. And the second fact, Mr. Movellán, do you know how much public investment this has meant? I will also tell you: EUR 11 600 million. You also look for any government of the People's Party or any government in the democratic history of Spain and tell me if you find anything like that, Mr Movellán. I'm telling you, no. There will be little public investment for the self-employed, but, look, I'm sure it was very well received by all the workers in our country, who for the first time didn't have to go down the blind. This is politics, Mr Movellán; politics is not what we are seeing these days in your party, in the People's Party. [[Rumors]] You, as I have been telling you, are not able to rule, you do not devote a minute to the day of your time to worrying about the problems of citizenship. The Government of Spain continues to work for its country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN IN THE CHAIR: MRS MACARENA OLONA CHOCLÁN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY VOX GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND CHAIRPERSON OF THE SECOND MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: CONCERNS WORK REFORM WITH THE RESPONSE OF THE SPANISH PRIMARY SECTOR? [[File number 180/000799]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u51	Question by Mr Ricardo Chamorro Delmo, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u52	Minister, do you count on labour reform with the support of the Spanish primary sector?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u53	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u54	Your Honor, thank you for your question. I suppose you know that labour reform, for the first time in Spain, creates the most comprehensive social agreement in existence, unless you deny representativeness to the parties that make up the Bureau of Social Dialogue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u55	Mr. Chamorro.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u56	Look, lady antisocial minister and from the divine left, this labor reformer, approved by mistake and agreed by the class unions and the CEOE, is a real hoax that would have to embarrass you, those of the red flags. This reform has turned its back on the national primary sector, from its back on the Spanish countryside, to favour the interests of others who are not precisely those of the popular classes, leaving the agricultural sector behind, abandoning those sectors that depend on seasonality for recruitment. The national primary sector is always the one that suffers in its labor negotiations, its trade wars, its cuts in the common agricultural policy, its free trade agreements, its globalist agendas, its climate pacts, its animal welfare laws, its criminalizations and its radical ideological attacks, its restrictions on irrigation, its actions, sanctions and conditionalities. With this reform, the contract of work or service determined is abolished. Unforeseeable circumstances of production in contracts reduce chaining periods and increase penalties and penalties. The eventual worker is the backbone of agricultural employment. Most contracts in the field are field contracts. The cost is going to be even higher for farms with this labour reform. From fuels to feed, through light, fertilizers or fertilizers, the countryside has experienced unprecedented price escalation. For this reason, the countryside is standing in all the towns and cities of Spain. That's why VOX is with them, that's why we will be with them on March 20 in the great manifestation of the agricultural and rural world in Madrid. The rural world is rebelling against the defiance of its Government and this reform is a defiance, in addition to a genuine hypocrisy that will be realized by all its voters, who voted for them theoretically because they defended social justice. I repeat, hypocrisy. [[Several Members: Very well! .-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u57	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u58	Your Honor, hypocrisy, scumbag, scumbag... You have a very clean style; welcome to the control sessions of this House. [[Applauds]] Look, far from what you represent here, I dare say that the data is not like that. With the policies that the Spanish Government is deploying, for the first time in the countryside, today, we have 58,000 more workers. Believe me, it's a historical figure; we have exactly 840 100 occupied in the countryside, as we haven't had in our country since 2007. And look, although you're not from the People's Party, we have 19,000 people working in the field more than when I was ruling the People's Party in 2018. I suppose this is a source of satisfaction for you. But secondly, Your Honor, if you defend the countryside, I suppose you are concerned about the conditions under which you work. Again, as I told Mrs Olona, you have a problem of understanding, you confuse seasonality with precariousness. Spain has a record number of temporality in the field which makes us particularly unequal; exactly 54%, 25 points more than the European average. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that with the policies that are implementing labour reform today in Spain, even this month the indefinite contracts in the field, which you are so concerned about, are 147%, also a record figure. And, Your Honor, I would like you to see some reality. Look, the Labour Inspectorate made 61,000 files in the field. Do you know how many were irregular? It does not happen in any other sector: 40,000. It would be good if, if you defend the countryside, you boast of good work practices and business ways that are high. [[Applauds]] - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHAT POSITION TO KEEP THE GOVERNMENT TO REDUCE ENERGY COSTS AFTER THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION'S DECISION ON THE GREEN TAXONOMY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION? [[File number 180/00805]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u59	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u60	Thank you, President. The European Commission has labelled investments in natural gas and nuclear energy as sustainable; therefore, they can contribute to this transition, to decarbonisation and, consequently, also to the use of more renewable energy sources, and also to the search for alternatives, where it is not possible, in electricity, and in this case I am referring to industry or transport. But Mrs Teresa Ribera questions the validity of the European Commission's reports, a doubt of the European Commission's technical capacity. It is isolated in the European Union; a minority position. Are you Eurosceptic? Europhobic? Please answer, because it is true that its continuing ideology in energy matters comes very close to the Spaniards. Let's go to real life, the one you don't like so much. An average bill for an average family in January 2021 was 48.74 euros. A year later - only a year later - of 92.70. As this is serious, let's think about SMEs and companies. An invoice from a medium-sized company: December 2021, 5000 euros; one month later, January 2022, 19 500. Its main mission, therefore, to ensure sustainable access to electricity for families and competitiveness in the economy, has not succeeded. That is why I ask you, Madam Vice-President, what position does the government have to lower energy costs after the European Commission's last decision? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u61	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u62	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. I'm starting to answer the most obvious. This government is European, enormously committed to Europe, and Spanish, enormously committed to the Spanish, not by any means like you, who have spared no gesture to put the modernisation of Europe and access to European funds at risk. [[Applauds]] That said, I regret that you have not yet understood that taxonomy is a very useful tool precisely for achieving a decarbonised energy system, reliable in the medium and long term, and that it has little to do with the emergency we are facing in energy prices today. We're not alone. As you know, there are many Member States and many actors who question the inclusion, through a delegated act, of something that was not at the basis of the decision taken by Ecofin or of the recommendations of the Sustainable Finance Platform guiding the Commission. However, I think it is important that taxonomy allows us to make decisions that do not generate litigation, that do not create risks for investors and that speed up the decarbonisation of our energy system to the maximum. We can also comment on the domestic measures we are taking to alleviate the effects of this energy crisis, which is so important for all Spanish and European citizens, and those concerted measures that we are trying to push at European level. But I hope you will comment on what you are interested in knowing about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u63	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u64	He knows that renewable energy is still difficult to manage because when there is no wind or sun, another raw material, in this case gas, is a back-up technology. I ask you: do you not know the enormous potential that exists in our country to be able to recover gas from landfills, for example, or from surplus agricultural matter, a green gas that would reduce its dependence and price? Does the Vice-President know that 46% of the LNG storage capacity in all of Europe is in Spain and that if we had a good interconnection with France we would be a reference and a net energy supplier to the rest of the European partners, with the strategic importance of gas today? Do you know that, too, or did you not? Do you know that nuclear power plants do not emit CO2 and from them comes 21% of the electricity consumed by our country? How do you plan to fund all these operations? With the mistrust of the markets, the energy transition is constantly being increased, our commitment to climate change is being jeopardized and, of course, you always, unfortunately, damage the most vulnerable with your actions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u65	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u66	Thank you very much. I see, Your Honor, that what you have not done has been neither to read the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan nor the entire strategic package, which includes, by the way, the consultation on renewable gases and biogas, which has a specific extra funding program in that Recovery Plan that drives Spain and which you have so much criticized. Along with this, we have taken measures to relieve families, both of social protection, to which the President of the Government referred earlier, as well as fiscal measures that have alleviated the bill of light; flexibility in gas tariffs for industrialists, or fixing ceilings for the increase of the bill of gas. But all this is accompanied by an unprecedented deployment of renewable energies, the solutions that we already have today to reach 46% of electricity production last year in our country, also sowing what we will need in the present for the future. So, as you can imagine, all this...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u67	Thank you very much, Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENSE: WHY DO THE GOVERNMENT EQUIPMENT NAZIS VOLUNTARYS OF THE SILVER DIVISION WITH ANTI-FACTORY REPUBLIC LUCHERS? [[File number 180/00808]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u68	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u69	Thank you very much, President. Minister, recently several groups, including mine, asked about an exhibition dedicated to the Blue Division at the Loiola barracks in Donostia, and the answer has been at least curious. The Government has told us that this presentation is due to historiographical reasons, but also that, apart from the Blue Division, they talked about the resistant anti-fascists who went to fight with the allies. Of course, this has produced a complaint of memorialist associations and several articles in different media talking about the incomprehensible equality between the two factions. And it's raining on wet, because already one of your predecessors paraded a Nazi volunteer from the Blue Division and a Republican in the name of the accord. Disappointment is still remembered. That's why I'm asking you if you think it's possible to misinterpret that exposure and that response in which there's an equalization between the two factions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u70	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u71	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I'm not going out of my mind with the question. The commitment of this Government to the victims of the dictatorship, to the victims of Francoism and their exaltation is clear and unequivocal. I don't understand where you draw any other conclusions. It is precisely because of this Government that it has been characterized by courage, strength and exaltation of the victims of the dictatorship. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u72	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u73	Yes, of course, Minister, that is the surprising thing, that knowing your trajectory and knowing the commitment of this Government continues to occur facts that, at least, attract attention. That in the middle of the 21st century there continue to be quarters with names dedicated to franchisors such as Millán-Astray, that there continue to be units of the Armed Forces that have the name Franco today, is not understood. But it's not just that, we talk about symbols, plates and, beyond, if we talk about exhibitions, he encouraged her to approach Toledo, the Army Museum, where he currently presents himself to dictator Franco with the laureate of San Fernando and as a hero of Spain. It is incomprehensible that it will continue to occur and I would like to ask you what has to happen, if the new Democratic Memory Act has to come so that you will be more combative with all those symbols, with all those loas to fascists and Nazi volunteers, because I am saying that it is not understood that this will continue to occur in the 21st century and with a Government that apparently has a commitment to this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u74	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I insist, I do not understand your observations or your considerations. I don't know if you want to cover the question mark you have; I don't know. Of course, the commitment of this Government is clear and unequivocal, there is no doubt, absolutely no doubt and, worse, you know it. And look, I'm gonna tell you one thing and I hope you agree with me. This government and any Democrat, under any circumstances, in the past, in history, or even in the present or in the less distant past, will always make a distinction between victims and executioners, because I believe you will be with me that we will always be with the victims. I hope you, without complexes, can say the same. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA ELVIRA RODRIGUEZ HERR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHY DOES THE AIREF RECOMMENDATIONS SYSTEMATICLY COMPLETE? [[File number 180/00806]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u76	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mrs María Elvira Rodríguez Herrer of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u77	Thank you, President. These days are not being good for our party, but we are here as responsible opposition, we and our group, and there is no right for us to have heard the words that your partner, the vice president, has said to us. [[Applauds]] That's why I'm here today asking a question that doesn't have much disease, but that's important and I hope you answer it. The AIReF is an independent institution created at the request of the European Union and serves to give credibility to public accounts and, therefore, to countries; a body that analyses, draws conclusions and makes recommendations on the principle of always complying with or explaining in a clear, reasonable and justified manner. Minister, why do they repeatedly fail to comply with the recommendations they receive from the AIReF and, moreover, do they not consistently explain the reasons why they deviate from their criteria? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u78	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u79	Mrs Rodríguez, I think I could also refer to the words of respect which the President of the Government has spoken this morning and which I subscribe to; therefore, on the part of this Government and the majority political force that supports it, I can only transfer respect to the organic issues that affect your party and wish it every success. [[Applauds]] I will tell you that, of course, I do not share your question. This Government, far from systematically failing to comply with the recommendations and advice of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, has since the first day cooperated in access to information and enabled the independent authority to carry out its work, an element, Your Honor, which, I do not know if you know or remember, represents a before and after what happened at the stage in which the People's Party ruled. Not only have we not strayed from the recommendations and advice of the AIReF, but we are very appreciative of the work it is doing and also, ladies and gentlemen, not only in the main tasks it has mandated in a statutory way - in a few years, as you know, especially complex because of the suspension of fiscal rules - but also in the evaluation, consultancy and audit work which, without a doubt, as you are seeing, Your Honor, is lighting up the decisions of this Government. Therefore, my appreciation of the work being done by the AIReF. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u80	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u81	Minister, in her last report, AIReF made them five recommendations, two new ones, one repeated and two of which she calls alive, i.e. in which her explanations were not satisfactory. They might not seem many, if not for their content, because one block refers to guarantees for the sustainability of public finances and the other to transparency. In the first case, the Government is reiterated to establish a medium-term fiscal strategy that provides guidance and realistic and credible assurance of the financial sustainability of our administrations, no more or less, Minister. On a rate-up horizon and with a debt-to-GDP level close to 120%, you do not give them a satisfactory response. The second one complains of the lack of information regarding the React funds and the reconstruction mechanism, and does not share their allegations. Not only does the AIReF, but also the most solvent analysts. Why are you playing with fire, minister? Why do they not attach importance to control, transparency and governance? You, who like to call anti-patriots anyone who dares to make the slightest criticism of them, do you not realize that this is what really harms Spain, here and in Brussels? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u82	Minister of Finance and Public Service,
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u83	It is always curious, Mrs Rodríguez, what comparison you make when you are in the opposition or when you are in the government. I'll remind you of a fact. The AIReF brought Mr. Rajoy's government to the National Court for violating his independence and not letting him perform his role. You accuse me of not following the recommendations, but no more or less that this body took you to court because you interfere in the task and the functions that you had to perform. Therefore, Your Honor, we will continue to comply with those recommendations and do not be so hasty with the adjustment plans. We are in a situation of suspension of fiscal rules and I consider, Your Honor, that the budget fulfils this function and it is not necessary at this time to pressure the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: what urgent action is going to be taken by the Government to speed up THE WORKS OF AUTHORITY A-63 OVIDE HER SPINE AND SUPPLEMENT THE SERIOUS NEEDS OF TRAVEL INFRASTRUCTURES IN THE SUROCCIDENT OF ASTORIES AND THE LEONESE LIMITROPHIC COMMERCIES? [[File number 180/000809]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u84	Question addressed to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u85	Minister of Transport, in 2010, Rodriguez Zapatero paralyzed the works of the A-63 Oviedo-La Espina motorway. Retaken by a government of the People's Party, the Doriga-Cornellana section was inaugurated, giving continuity to a key infrastructure for the south-west of Asturias, whose construction was blocked ten months ago by an argyo that, together with other very serious incidents on the bad roads of this area, has generated great social outrage and severe damage to economic activity. The added episodes of the closure of the national N-634, the demolition of the La Barroso bridge in Salas, with only ten years of service and the mandatory diversion of traffic by infamous roads complete a danteco scenario that was threatened by the government delegate, which recriminates the neighboring demonstrations protesting the collapse and road insecurity. Hence, I ask you for your intentions to recover the multiple deficiencies and dangerous infrastructures in the south-west of Asturian and advance in communication towards the bordering Leonese regions.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u86	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, from the government we are fully aware and agree on the importance of the A-63 motorway between Oviedo and La Espina for south-east Asturias and, therefore, during this exercise we have allocated more than 14 million euros to the works under way in order to be able to continue them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u88	Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u89	Minister, in addition to providing investments for the works of a crucial project that is carried out by turtle and with a broad history of administrative, budgetary and geological trompicons, the Government of Sánchez must resolutely join in the fight against the oblivion of the communications of the south-west of Asturias. Even more so when his socialist autonomic counterpart, Mr.Barbón, instead of assuming his own powers, wants to shamelessly end the State's continuation of the highway by Tineo, Cangas de Narcea and Degaña towards Ponferrada. In this respect, Mrs Sánchez Jiménez, does your Government have any plans to rectify the permanent autonomous zanganera or as many of us fear we are faced with another monumental camel that perpetuates the incommunicado and isolation of the South West? Are there plans or purposes to resolve inoperability and abandonment of roads in this area as well? Are you, the socialists - here and there - ever going to remember for the sake of the south-west of Asturias? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u90	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I can no longer disagree with your statements because, of course, they do not correspond to the reality or to the enormous investment effort that this government is making on the roads in Asturias. Therefore, during this year 2022 we will allocate more than 96 million to the Asturian roads, almost twice as much as the budget of the People's Party, the last budget of the People's Party of 2018 to which you supported. Look, since June 2018, since we have ruled the socialists, since we have ruled this government, we are making a great effort on the roads of the south-western Asturian. In the particular case of the A-63 with more than 64 million invested, to which the 5 million of the conservation works must be added. Look, we're working to complete the A-63's ongoing work. After many years stopped - it is true - we resumed the works of the Cornellana-Salas section in summer 2018. We have repaired in record time the clay produced last year on the national road N-634, with an investment of more than 14 million euros. We are working at a very good pace on the replacement work of the La Barroso bridge on the same road. And following with the A-63, we also retake the works of the second road between Salas and the Reguerón in October 2019. I therefore believe that the commitment of this Government, the great impetus that we are giving to road transport infrastructure in the south-west of Asturias, with investments that will be placed during this parliamentary term around the more than EUR 100 million. And we have been working in coordination since cooperation, but since coordination to improve the lives of Asturians and Asturians - and I have to tell you this too - with the President of the Principality of Asturias. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT FEEL Satisfied with the contributions made by their parliamentary bodies? [[File number 180/000800]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u92	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, no rodeos, yes or no. Is the Government satisfied with the contributions made by its parliamentary partners?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u94	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. Look, no rodeos. We are a stable government, we are a solid government, we are a government that works every day to improve the lives and living conditions of the Spaniards, and I regret to say that we have a parliamentary majority in this House that assumes that we have drawn, listen well, each and every one of the legislative initiatives of this government, both bills and royal decrees-laws. [[Applauds]] And we do it with verbs that you do not conjugate: dialogue, work, seek contributions, seek consensus. That is the method that this Government has to take forward its legislative agenda to improve the lives of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u96	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. What we feared, we did not know whether the Government was satisfied or not. But, to resume your expression, look at you, live. Directly, this government is a cancer and a scam. Sanchez has no scruples or principles. Your covenant - that to which you refer - with communists, separatists and florets is humiliating and immoral. It represents the miserable surrender to the continuous blackmail of those who call themselves enemies of Spain. Threats, deplanting, demands that the Government swallow so as to maintain itself. For example, silenced by Otegi's infamous decision to turn David Pla, the last head of ETA, into the leading leader of Sortu Bildu. Is the Government satisfied with this contribution which expands the payroll of its interlocutors? Minister, it is an insult to the victims and a step forward in that dirty strategy of whitening the murderers with which the government compromises. There is no greater indignity and shame. That is why, despite their demagogies, their insidiousness and their lies, there are more and more millions of Spaniards supporting that patriotic and social alternative that VOX represents with the will to prevent you and your partners from liquidating the unity and being of the nation, and you will not achieve it. Here without fear of anything or anyone, to the clear, live, we will avoid it, conscious of our responsibility, and at this moment of our special duty with Spain, because it is already more obvious than ever that today only remains firm, strong and standing VOX to prevent it. Take note. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u98	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Believe me, I am very sorry to hear this speech and this absolutely pre-constitutional tone in this House. [[Applauds]] You are the extreme right because you are extremists. They are social extremists, that is why they are always with the strong and not the weak, that is why they did not support labour reform or support the increase in the minimum wage. You are also extremists in the area of gender equality because you want women to be subjected, you don't even defend them against that savage scourge of gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] And you are extremists, above all, in politics. Today, his spokesman has said that he prefers any government of the dictatorship to ours. Are you Francois? Are you a political party that supports the dictatorship? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] I just want the new leadership of the People's Party to see what all the Spaniards see, which you are a danger to democracy and a danger to the Spaniards and to the Spanish. [[Applauds]] He ended up with his favorite theme, Mr. Gil Lázaro. I regret to remind you that ten years ago democracy won the terrorist band ETA thanks to the courage of good Spaniards like Zapatero and Rubalcaba, whose service sheet for Spain is worthy of thanks, unlike yours. [[applause]] Do you know what your service sheet is for Spain? A blank folio. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA MONTESINOS DE MIGUEL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN THINK TO PROTECT THE MINORS PROTECTED FROM THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY, 'CAIGA WHO CAIGA'? [[File number 180/00807]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u100	Question to the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u101	Minister, we asked for a commission of inquiry in the Valencian Courts for sexual abuse of a child under guardianship, and they voted against; we asked for a commission of inquiry in Congress they voted against. You, the 'I do believe you, sister' parties, shut up and grant. On the contrary, the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament and the Ombudsman will investigate the cases. We are talking about Maite, the victim who, being a minor and being protected in a reception centre of the Equality Council, whose title was Monica Oltra, suffered abuse by the educator, who was Monica Oltra's husband. What did you do? Very simple; what you did, as the Valencian government did, was hinder the investigation by denying it assistance, protecting it, as the prosecutor denounced. She was handcuffed to testify to the victim, as the sentence that sentenced the abuser to five years' imprisonment, which reads: Hostility and absolute lack of empathy towards the victim, of which she repeatedly abused. In addition, the courts sentenced and declared illegal the closure of the Segorbe juvenile centre, which they used to cover up the abuse of Monica Oltra's husband, and filed two false complaints. Recently, a court in Valencia has charged six charges of the Equality Council for covering up the abuse of the child in the centre protected by the Council. And lastly, and not least, in the Valencian Community - take note - from 2020 to 2021, 175 minors - said the Greuges Synod - have been abused while under the guardianship of the Generalitat. That is why I ask you: Does the Government of Spain intend to protect the guardianship children of the Valencian Community who fall? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u102	Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u103	Thank you, President. Good morning, Your Honor. This Government has been working throughout the legislature to defend all boys and girls from all sexual violence and is doing so with facts, with data. From the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 we promoted and succeeded in adopting a law, which is pioneering in the world, to combat all forms of violence in children. This law, for example, states that all juvenile centres must have a protocol against violence in children. Only this year will this Government dedicate €25 million to the deployment of this law and from the Ministries of Equality and Social Rights we are working with the autonomous communities to deploy a plan to combat the sexual violence of children under guardianship. That, Your Honor, is what this Government is doing and is out of the question. What is at stake - and that is the most serious - is why you always look elsewhere, as you are doing in the Community of Madrid in the face of the violence of the underprivileged. Why does the People's Party permanently use victims as a bold weapon? I tell you, Your Honor, on a day like today, when you should have a little more respect for the citizenry, for the people who are seeing us outside of this Congress. It is too obvious that what they are doing is using the victims as a bold weapon, as a smokescreen, so that we do not talk about their corruption and their misery, about the miseries of the People's Party. [[Protests]] That's the problem. The problem is their corruption. I'll give you free advice, Your Honor. I think what the People's Party should have done... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u105	...I think what the People's Party should have done, after cases like the Lezo, like the Gürtel, like the papers of Bárcenas, like Mr. M. Rajoy, to apologize to the Spaniards and... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u106	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u107	...return up to the last euro they stole from the Spaniards. That's what you should have done. [[Applauds]] Instead, what they have done is normalize corruption, what they have done is assume, as Mrs Ayuso did, an open corruption, which is part of her DNA, and recognize that her brother was bitten by a contract with the Madrid Community. So you stay out of government because you are a danger to democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u108	Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u109	Minister, you're a frivolous woman. What I should do is to tell what you have just told me and the whole House to the victims of abuse who are suffering them in the Valencian Community. [[Applauds]] Maite, who was abused by an educator, the husband of Councilwoman Monica Oltra, that's what you should do. And the attitude you maintain is deplorable and intolerable, because for you, unfortunately and unfortunately, there are victims of the first and victims of the second. [[Applauds]] - OF THE JORDI SAVER'S DEVELOPED I DUCH, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE AN AUDIT REPORT ON SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNTS, AS ESTABLISHED IN THE SIXTH ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS OF LAW 21/2021? [[File number 180/000796]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u110	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Jordi Salvador i Duch, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u111	Good morning. Thank you, President. Minister, you know that Esquerra Republicana has a firm commitment to the defence of the public pension system. It is almost an obsession for us, and it is because it is one of the crown jewels of the working class. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Social Security box has had losses for some years, it is unique and exclusively because the money has been used for items that should not have been financed by Social Security: the already famous improper expenses. Social security takes advantage of the contributions of workers, and their money must go towards paying contributory pensions. However, the various ministries of finance - both the PSOE and the People's Party -, the various governments of the State, have used these funds to finance policies that should have been covered by general taxes. What's that supposed to mean? On the one hand, that for decades the working class has double financed the state of well-being: one, via IRPF and another, via contributions. On the other hand, the false account of the eternal crisis of the pension system has been created, which always demands cuts in pensioner rights and never improvements. Knowing all this, the main pensioners' associations, with hundreds of thousands of signatures, demonstrations and periodic concentrations, more congressional resolutions of the unions, have been demanding an audit of the Social Security accounts for years. And for what? For to demonstrate: one, that only by complying with article 109 of the General Law on Social Security, the sustainability of the system was and is feasible; and, two, so that no one again insinuates that the only possible future goes through private or supplementary pensions. Therefore, in the hard negotiation of the pension law between the Ministry and Esquerra, as you will recall, we agreed to add an additional provision requiring the Government to commission this audit. Audits is the word that collects the law. And it is obvious that one cannot audit oneself, that is, that no one should be tempted to settle this matter with a simple report from the Government. An audit, by definition, has to be independent. In addition, the agreed provision required the Government to commission the audit within a maximum period of one month. Well, that month has already passed and that is why we asked the government at this monitoring session: has the government already complied with the law and commissioned the audit? Will the Members of Parliament have that audit before 15 June this year, as the law says? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u112	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u113	Thank you, President. Mr Salvador, of course we are going to comply with the law, with the credibility that gives us it is the Government that we have set in motion the recognition of expenses that are inappropriate to social security. Our credibility here is absolute, Mr. Salvador. The Toledo Pact asked us in 2020 to know the wrong expenditure, not an audit, not an accounting analysis exercise, but substantively to strengthen the sustainability of social security and its financial balance through recognition of the wrong expenditure through ongoing contributions from the AGE and so on. We already have more than 18 billion with the budgets of 2022 and our commitment is to comply fully and in record time with the recommendation of the Toledo Pact, which could be perceived as a medium-term thing, but we will do so in this legislature, we will reach 22 billion in 2023. Therefore, we have all the credibility and we will comply with the law. You have raised it from the beginning, and I therefore insist on the word credibility, because of this feeling of mistrust which reflects your request to the Bureau of the House that this request for a monitoring report be brought to the Court of Auditors' Joint Committee. Frankly, from my experience and knowledge, I can tell you that the Court of Auditors does not fit into what we have to do, it must be within the General Administration of the State. In other words, do you not trust the monitoring work done by the General Social Security Intervention or the General State Intervention on Social Security Accounts? Do you have any doubts? Not me, and I'm the responsible minister. Of course, the interventions must be respected. Anyway, there is this request and we can talk, but I assure you that if there is a government that has credibility... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u114	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the questions addressed to the Government. First, urgent appeal from the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, on the convening of the debate on the state of the nation. For your defense, Mr. French Ball has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u116	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr Bolaños, Minister of the Presidency. Look, I propose with this interpellation something strange, something strange today, which is to talk about the real problems our nation has. That is why we have been constantly calling for this debate to take place for a long time on the state of our nation and on the real problems it is facing, which are suffering our fellow citizens, as the party president has made clear in the oral question. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u117	Excuse me a second, Mr. Bal. I ask you to be quiet, please, and if you have to leave the Chamber, do it in silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u118	Because today we are talking about the problems of the parties, today we are talking about the problems of certain people, of certain colleagues of ours who have shared with us the seats of the Congress of Deputies, but we are not talking, for example, how I asked you last Wednesday, about why Spain has stopped being in the lead car of the most advanced democracies; we are not talking about how we are going to get to true normality when the pandemic ends; we are not talking about whether my son, who this year is going to finish the race, is going to find a job, is going to find a precarious job, is going to find a good job or is going to have to go abroad to work because there are no opportunities in Spain. And that's because you socialists and people have used Congress as a battlefield. Today we have here a much more neutral and much more moderate tone, but we have to turn back in memory to see the things that you and you are saying on a real battlefield and in a real trench war, where, in addition, you use Spain as a huge chiringuito where to place your own. [[pointing to the seats on the left and right]] But it's just that we have to be accountable. Our system is that of the parliamentary monarchy and the confidence of the Government rests on Congress. Power must be exercised to try to solve the problems of the Spaniards, and that is what I have done my whole life as a public official, but it seems that you use power simply as an end in yourself and, in the end, rival the egos; hence our intention, in Citizens, to, machaconically, forcefully, ask you to debate the state of the nation, so that the government may face up and that you may be held accountable to national sovereignty. And not only that, but also that it does not depend on the whim or political opportunity of the President of the Government When it is better for him, no, but that it is regulated in the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, which is what we have already asked of him in a parliamentary initiative. Constitutional doctrine even says that it is constitutional custom, and in fact in the forty years of democracy twenty-five debates have been held on the state of the nation, but we have been without debate on the state of the nation for seven years. Mr Rajoy was also not very pleased with parliamentary control, and he spent three years without calling the debate of the state of the nation while Pedro Sánchez constantly asked him: You call, Mr Rajoy, the debate of the state of the nation. But Mr. Pedro Sánchez has not convened the debate on the state of the nation for four years, and you are supposed to be the most progressive government this country has ever had in history. Men, for they are accountable, use transparency, regeneration and democratic cleansing, and do not be allergic to parliamentary control, which every time we ask someone to appear, costs us God and helps the ministers to come to appear. Since 2015, in which the last debate on the state of the nation was held, it has rained heavily. Look, in 2015, in the last debate, there were no Citizens, there were no Podemos and there was no VOX; Puigdemont was a mayor of a city of Girona barely known; then they ruled the majorities of bipartisanship - I don't know if you two have realized that bipartisanship is over -; Article 155 of the Constitution had never been applied; there was never any pardon for coups because of public utility, and the United Kingdom was still part of the European Union. Finally, Mr Bolaños, with this inquiry I want to make the diagnosis that my party makes, that we liberals make about the state of the nation. You earlier, in your answer to the oral question, said that Spain has a strong and solid government. Look, no; Spain has a weak government that is based on populists and nationalists and separatists, and this is the deplorable state of our nation. Do you really believe that the Spanish are satisfied with the Government of Spain? Do you really believe that with inflation and rising the price of the shopping basket people are happy? When you have left the future of 47 million Spaniards in the hands of demagogues, nationalists and separatists; when it turns out that the future of our children will be decided by Mr Rufián and Mr Otegui. Look, you can't just keep giving in to the blackmail of the nationalists. This is the first important element to talk about how the state of our nation is located. I remind you, he is in the Chambers: Mr Sánchez arrives in Moncloa and the first thing he does is question the Electoral Board because he is going to disqualify Mr Torra; then he goes there, to Barcelona, with all the honors. But last year, in 2021, when we reached out to them and you and I negotiated the General Budgets of the State, they threw themselves into the arms of Bildu and Esquerra. In exchange for what? In exchange for prisoners, in exchange for nine pardons from the coup perpetrators of the trial and in exchange for the rapprochement of prisoners from ETA to the Basque Country and Navarra; in exchange for making a big look and looking at the ground in the tributes they make to those who return to the Basque Country, who with Pedro Sánchez reach the number of 619; in exchange for the coupon to the PNV; in exchange for the assignment of the prison surveillance competition to the PNV, and many other laws of less calm and less media projection, but which are also returns of our nation against separatism, such as the Celá Law and the vector character of the Castilian; as is the law that they say it is of university coexistence, only for the imposition of the violent, or as is the law of citizen security, which calls into question the good name of our Forces and State Security Bodies. Do you not want to hold the debate on the state of the nation because you are aware that the Government of Spain is supporting those who do not believe in the nation? What's that? Is that why they don't summon him? [[Applauds]] Because there we have to talk about how to guarantee the right to be educated also in Spanish in Catalonia. There we have to talk about that you can't be equidistant on these kinds of issues. We have to talk about that there cannot be a table of shame and blackmail outside the operating mechanism of the Parliament of Catalonia. Look, Aragonese has already told you that he is not going to the Conference of Presidents, and they continue with the blackmail table and, in the meantime, separatism continues to humiliate Spain. You've seen it with labor reform. You will tell me: man, it is that the People's Party did the same thing. Yes, it's true, it's true, the same assignments so as to remain in power, but I'm not worth comparing Malcolm to evil. Be you guys better, man! Of course, indeed, the two are guilty. In the meantime, they do not agree on the important issues, on the really important issues. Meanwhile, they continue to give in; for example, the Socialist Party is going to vote in the Balearic Islands also to relegate teaching in Spanish. We will see what you are doing with the Basque education law, which is also, indeed, in the same line. But did the People's Party, when it had an absolute majority, protect teaching in Spanish, Spanish in these territories? He didn't do it either, he didn't do it either. And besides with Podemos, look, with Podemos, with the left populism, with these people who camped the 15-M in the Gate of the Sun to reach the sky and who reached it in the offices, they reached a sky with carpet. That's why we have twenty-two ministries, that's why we have a disproportionate administrative expense - we have a public agency for every 2300 Spaniards, but we only have one psychologist for every 16,000-, we find that there are more advisors in the Administration that population have 60% of the municipalities of Spain, we find how in the Ministry of Equality a person works condemned for assaulting a woman police officer... Hey, but don't you impose on your government partner what Citizens do with their government partners? That is, transparency, regeneration, democratic cleansing, that people like Isa Serra cannot manage the general interests when they are convicted of beating a female policeman. You don't care, do you? As long as you stay in power. They don't like the attacks on the judiciary that Podemos does, they don't like the statements that Vicky Rosell made yesterday, saying that judges are prevaricating because they don't pursue the sexual abuse of the Church, they don't care when they talk about the regime of 78 and even you, in your ministry, submitted an amendment with Podemos to the Historical Memory Law to repeal the Amnesty Law, which is the cornerstone of the Transition. But if you, the Socialist Party, were protagonists of the Transition, do you want to carry it too now? It's to take your hands to your head. You are going to tell me now that you are concerned about the rise of extremism - you will certainly quote me from VOX - but, look, it's that you and you feed the extremes, feed them because you think in the short term, because you think that in this way you mobilize your own electorate. You will be able to tell me how at last week's plenary session we found a speech by VOX, in fact, which decided who was to grant Spanish nationality or who was to withdraw visas. Yes, but look, it's true that VOX is an anti-European party, but it's that its government partner doesn't condemn what Putin is doing in Ukraine, that is, he doesn't look at me with different glass to each other. You will tell me that, indeed, VOX is distributing around DNI to whom it seems that it has met the demands of being a good Spanish, but it is that Podemos wants a referendum of self-determination in Catalonia, wants to establish borders within our country, within our nation. They govern, in short, with the extremes and, moreover, encourage them, they want them to grow, and this is a very bad thing for our nation. We have to reach agreements with the constitutionalist parties as we do in Europe. It cannot be that you two do not agree on labour reform, on the change of the Electoral Law, on the rights to learn in Spanish, on the General Budgets of the State, on health measures in pandemics, on aid to self-employed people and families, on education, on the fight against corruption, on the promotion of birth, to lower the price of the bill of light, a pact for science... No; you agree to distribute television, to distribute the Constitutional Court, to distribute the General Council of the Judiciary and now, at best, even to pass reports to each other with data tax on the people. [[Applauds]] Because, where did those reports come from if they didn't? Look, we're living a dramatic moment. It cannot be that a democracy has a weak government and a weak opposition. I wish Mr Married the best, but you must have a high eye and you must set the date for the debate on the state of the nation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Next, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Bal, for your inquiry. I thank him for the tone of the first half and he shaved the tone of the second half, full of a background of cheap demagogy, falsehoods, even echoed some bubble. Indeed, the second part of your speech is not up to your person, Mr Bal, and believe me that I say this to you with sadness, because all that argument that you use of a Spain in the hands of those who want to break it does not sympathize with the reality of our country, of a government that every day works to improve the lives of citizens, that every day advances in rights, that every day manages to consolidate an economic recovery in our country; a government that has worked tirelessly against a pandemic that has devastated the world. That is the reality and, therefore, gathering arguments of a fat brush I think is not at the level of what citizenship asks of us. Look, we are the government of democracy that has answered more questions and more queries from opposition groups, the most democratic. We have never rejected the parliamentary debate, but we have also answered 73,000 written parliamentary questions. Do you know what that means? More than the Rajoy government answered during its two legislatures. These are the data and this is what we do from the Government of Spain. In the first legislature, if you remember, we arrived at the government in June 2018 and elections were called in February 2019 and therefore there was no real time to hold a debate on the state of the nation. But when we came to the government in this legislature, what happened was that in January 2020 the government was formed and in March 2020 we began to suffer the pandemic and, obviously, the priorities of the government changed, the priorities of the country changed, the priorities of the citizenry changed. We focus on responding to the health crisis, focusing on alleviating the economic and social effects of the pandemic and then implementing the vaccination strategy. By the way - I have not heard it in your speech, perhaps by forgetfulness - Spain is an example and has been congratulated by the World Health Organization. [[Applauds]] An example. In this dark landscape that you have painted in the second part of your speech, perhaps some touch of reality would not have gone wrong; for example, accepting that vaccination in Spain has been exemplary. Look, it is clear that there has been no element that has been alien to the parliamentary debate, because the President of the Government has appeared 14 times in Parliament's plenary session in this legislature, 14 times. Do you know how many President Rajoy attended during the same period? Four. The ministers and ministers of this government have already appeared 207 times in committees of this Congress. Do you know in the same period of the Rajoy government how many times they showed up? The Midad, 105. That is to say, we share twice as much as previous governments and we do it with good taste, because we are a government that believes in giving answers and satisfaction to the questionings and to the questions that parliamentary groups are asking us. One member of the Government appears in this House every four days; it is purely statistical every four days. This week three ministers and ministers have appeared in Congress and one more has appeared in the Senate, so, Mr Bal, no one wins at the parliamentary debate in this government. No one. [[Applauds]] Please note that your partners or former right-wing partners tell us the opposite, that we talk a lot, that we debate a lot, that we dialogue a lot, that we negotiate a lot. However, you tell us that we do not. And we do it even outside these Chambers; we do it with an exercise that we have created from the Government of Spain, which is the exercise of accountability. Every six months the President of the Government appears publicly and accounts for the implementation of the measures that have been taken and that have been implemented, both in his investiture debate and in the various agreements that we have reached with parliamentary groups. This is an exercise that has come to stay in Spain, because it is an exercise of accountability and transparency. There is a website where one can know in real time what all the commitments of this Government are and what is the state of each of them: if it is fulfilled, if it is being processed, if we are in it or if it has not yet begun to be implemented. Such accountability is therefore also important. With regard to the debate on the state of the nation, I tell you what the President has already committed: it is going to be held and it is going to be held at this session. I sincerely hope that this will be a useful debate on the state of the nation, especially for the citizens. Let us talk about what we have done from the Government, about the initiatives we have taken, about how we have worked tirelessly to ensure that the pandemic does not affect our citizens either economically or socially, and also - and I see that this would be the novelty - to know the alternatives of the opposition. We would like to know some initiative from the opposition, some, for doing something different, because to date the only thing we have received are a panoply of half truths and arguments of fat brush that are not true and that do not correspond to the reality of our country. We would like that debate to be constructive. I hope that the tone of your parliamentary group and your own will be useful, as it has been on other occasions, and that citizens can therefore be proud to hear a debate where proposals are actually being put forward. Because one day I'd like to know what the opposition to the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage feels like. Are you in favour? Are you against it? Or the Climate Change Act. Is the right in favor? Is the right against it? Either of the minimum living income, or of the law on euthanasia, or of so many measures that we have taken to dignify the lives of Spanish citizens. In the end, there are no alternatives. You never discuss the substance of what we are adopting from the government to improve people's lives; you discuss absolutely ancillary issues. It's over now. I would like more than to discuss the debate to have concrete proposals, to have that be the real debate of the state of the nation: what the Government has done and what its position is on those measures of the Government. And I also tell you, Mr. Bal, if we were winners, we would now call the debate on the state of the nation, but we are not. We are a responsible government, a serious government that is currently dedicated to governing and giving stability to our country, which is what Spain needs and what the Spanish need. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u122	Thank you, President. Mr Bolaños, it gives me the feeling that during the intervention to you at some point it has had to pass through the head that I am of the People's Party or something. No, no. Look, he's talking to Citizens, the Liberal Party. I do not know if you remember, as you speak of the pandemic, who, negotiating with you, voted in favour of the confinements six times?, who offered last year to the Spaniards an alternative so that the General Budgets of the State were a moderate budget where the taxes did not go up, while you, however, decided to sign them with Esquerra, with Bildu, with the PNV?, who, at the beginning of the legislature, proposed the so-called Via 221, the Via Arrimadas?, who last week, very recently, supported the agreement between entrepreneurs and workers, while their government partners left them hanging? Do you remember what their government partners were proposing, what nonsense they were proposing for the Spanish economy? Who's got a high eye? Who had a sense of state at the time? Citizens, liberals, not the People's Party. [[Applauds]] So please don't confuse yourself with a party. It's true that they're in low hours, but they're still the leaders of the opposition. Look, don't compare me to Rajoy, because you've fallen into the trap I set you up in my initial intervention. You compare badly with evil: they worse, it's that they made it worse. What's the matter with me? Are you telling me you're doing better than Rajoy? You have to explain to the citizens, who are the ones paying them the salary. They say you answer questions. Man!, it was just missing, it was just missing that they didn't answer questions. By the way, do you remember that the government admitted to us a question in which we denounce a website where it is possible to denounce university professors who spoke in Spanish under the subterfuge that universities have university autonomy? We are going to appeal to the Constitutional Court, because it seems that the Government is not as transparent and does not want to give as many explanations as you say. Do you really think I'm not going to congratulate you on the vaccination campaign? You think I'm from the People's Party again? Look, no. I am glad; I am glad that the vaccination campaign has been a success. I am here precisely to try to safeguard the lives and jobs of citizens, and that is why we held hands with them during the pandemic, which you did not do alone. [[Applauds]] You're sorry, you're in a lot of trouble because I remind you that they rule with Esquerra and Bildu. Imagine the sadness that comes to me to see my country, to see my nation in the hands of the separatists, the nationalists and the populists. I want to end up telling you something. Look, we're not catastrophic; we don't say this is going very badly, this is going to ruin, no. We believe in Spain, we believe in our citizens. We know that we belong to a great country, whose main heritage are its people, courageous people, hard-working people, people who deserve to have a government that supports them. So, please, fulfill your obligations, be accountable. It cannot be that you are creating, with that cowardly silence of not coming here to account, disaffection of citizens for their politicians. No wonder they're shocked by their politicians. He tells me that we are not presenting initiatives. But if we are the political party that has the record of initiatives at the last session: 32 for each Member. We're presenting initiatives all day, but you tell us all no. We just presented last week the possible deflation of the type of IRPF to maintain the purchasing capacity of the Spaniards. I don't know if it's been five minutes, and the Minister of Finance has said: no, no, no, that's not coming from Citizens. And you're telling us that we don't participate in government laws? Look, minimum living income: What do we vote for? That's right. Euthanasia: What do we vote for? That's right. Last year's budgets, they didn't let us vote yes in the end. Children's Act: What do we vote for? That's right. Why has the Vocational Training Act come out? For Citizens. That's my party, a party that builds Spain. Let us do it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Bal, for your answer. I like Citizens to be a useful political force, I publicly confess it in this House. I like it. I think you have had important roles during the management of the pandemic, and with the alarm states, you were an example. It was an example that Citizens had the sense of state and responsibility that no others had. I therefore have nothing but good words for your political formation. I also like that they are a useful political force and that they support a labour reform that has been agreed by the social partners, which is positive for our country and that employers and workers were hoping that it would enter into force and remain in force. You guys there made sense of state. With the same clarity as I say this, I also tell you that you are sometimes a little erratic and that you make indistinguishable speeches from other political forces to your right, to the right of the right, to the right of the right. Yesa is the part that, with all affection, I say to you, Mr Bal, and to your parliamentary group, because that is where you lose the credibility of being a useful political force and of being a liberal political force; when you become the same as others; when one, if you forget the faces and forget the tone of voice, says: Uy, these speeches how they sound to me; when they are from the right of the right. You say that in Spain things don't go as well as the government says. I tell you that in Spain things are going better every day, that our economy is going better every day, that employment data is the record. It's not that we're better than before the pandemic; we're better than before the 2008 crisis, and that's employment and that's real data. They're not predictions, they're not predictions, no, they're real data. We already have twenty million occupied in Spain who are working and who are generating wealth. Therefore, when you pose in this atril a dark panorama, I have to tell you that this dark panorama does not correspond to reality. The reality is a thriving Spain, a Spain in economic recovery, a Spain that has better and better economic figures and has employment and social security affiliation data that are record in the history of our country. That's reality, that's reality. I must also tell you that, without a doubt, what I regret most about your speech is that you echo some of the noises that are running around and that this House does not deserve us to give you even the slightest word. You say that we govern with political forces that you define in very loving terms. As far as I know, in the coalition government there are two political forces, there is no more. May I ask if you rule with VOX in Andalusia? Because it's the same thing. Well, I see from his face that, in fact, one thing is to govern and another is to get parliamentary support to improve the lives of the Spanish and Spanish. We do that with dialogue, we do it with work, we do it with effort and we do it because the Spanish have voted for this House, for this whole House. You all represent national sovereignty. All of you represent Spain and, therefore, the Spaniards have wanted a plural Parliament, the most plural of democracy, and we, as a government, have to manage it. We have a country project, Mr. Bal. We strive to repeat it every day. We approved the 2021 Annual Regulatory Plan at the first Council of Ministers in January - it had never been done - so that you know from now on, since the first Council of Ministers in January, what the Government has in mind. I announce that I will ask you, at your own request, to appear in this House to explain the annual regulatory plan, to know its alternatives and to listen to what plan the Government has. I conclude by joining your final demonstration, that you are with the Spanish and the Spanish. There we are, there is the government, every day, without rest, without weekends, working to improve the living conditions of our compatriots, the Spanish and the Spanish. That is the daily effort of the Government of Spain. I am not telling you to do everything right, I am telling you to recognize us, at least, the effort and the work of every day to make the quality of life of our citizens better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, the Minister of the Presidency, relations with the Courts and democratic memory on the inter-ministerial coordination functions in relation to cesions to INDEPENDENT PARTICIPANTS. [[File number 172/000175]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u126	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory on the functions of inter-ministerial coordination in relation to the divestments to the independence parties. For your defence, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. With your coming, ladies and gentlemen. Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, we ask about the functions of interministerial coordination in relation to his Government's handovers to the independenceist parties, which are becoming increasingly evident, which are seeing all the Spaniards and which cause great concern throughout our country and, of course, in the People's Party. We want to know what their role is in this coordination, in those transfers that do so much damage to Spain and so much credit are taking away their own Government. Assignments to separatism are bad for Spain, and this comment, Your Honor, as you will understand and agree with me, is not done at random or at the discretion of a political party to make opposition. This is a fact that should embarrass the Government and that should embarrass it, because it breaks with all the criteria of equality and with the principle of institutional loyalty enshrined in our Constitution, which you often demand and demand. The State-General Bilateral Commission of Catalonia is a lack of respect more than obvious to the principle of institutional loyalty and to all Spaniards. His Government, the Government of all Spaniards, rewards disloyalty to its institutions, because those who sit at the table with the sole claim to be different from the others, to be treated in a different way with the aim of achieving their lax objectives, such as an illegal referendum that breaks the equality of Spaniards leaving Spain in half. What exactly does your ministry coordinate, Your Honor? What message do you now want to convey to Spanish society to make up separatism, which is ruining the lives of so many Catalans and so many Spanish people and which has, for example, caused thousands of companies to leave Catalonia in these years? A separatism, minister, that called us Andalusians - I am Andalusian - wild beasts. Yes, the President of the Generalitat, with whom you have agreed, called the Andalusian mad beasts and said we had one less gene. Some racist people do not deserve to be at any dialogue table, but they deserve to be complying with the law, Your Honor. A separatism, Minister, which has given a coup d'état, which they do not regret and whose perpetrators, condemned by the courts, say they would do so again. A separatism whose leaders are able, from the institutions and from the Presidency of the Generalitat - now, Your Honor, in these months - to support a campaign against the Canet de Mar family in Barcelona, that the only thing you ask - the only thing you ask, Minister - is that your son's right to be educated by 25% in Spanish is recognized. There is no table with which to support this kind of thing, Minister. You have to sit with them, yes, but to comply with the law, to demand that they comply with the law. Minister, I insist, what does your ministry coordinate? How to make up or bleach all this? Look, last 7 February, Mr Oriol Junqueras was able to see in the offices of the Congress of Deputies the independenceist convicted of sedition and subsequently pardoned by his Government - but not repentant of his crimes - Mr Oriol Junqueras, just a few hours before the Government announced that it had already closed a bureau meeting by 18 February, which finally took place. With which group did Mr. Junqueras meet in Congress? If it is something that is negotiated and affects all of Spain, why, by virtue of that transparency that you demand, do not quote all the political parties represented in the Congress of Deputies? Mr. Junqueras, he said: the Supreme Court is right in nothing and the lesson of the whole process is that we did it in order to be able to do it again; the goal was and is independence and will fall by its own weight, we just have to work to convince more people. Mr Oriol Junqueras, with whom you are negotiating, says that support for the budgets of this Government depends on progress at the dialogue table and that holding a referendum on self-determination is a normal thing, and has stressed that you will exercise it again, that you will never give up and that you are not afraid, that you have never been afraid, and that repression has not worked, because it has not made independence give up. And he added: prison is one more part of the road to freedom. And I would add: especially when you have a government incapable and irresponsible, able to pardon when it says it would do it again and does not regret it. [[Applauds]] Minister, were there government positions at these meetings prior to the bilateral commission? What new economic or other transfers is the Government willing to offer to its independent partners in exchange for continuing to maintain Mr. Sánchez in Moncloa? Because this is the grave thing about your vision - yours, Minister - of inter-ministerial coordination with those parties that aim to break equality between the Spaniards. The polarization and forced politicization of the lives of Catalans because of independence are contributing greatly to weakening the levels of interpersonal trust and favoring the emergence of negative externalities in the economy that have limited the enormous growth potential of Catalonia. Minister, I know and know what you're going to tell me. It will tell me that now the situation is much better in Catalonia, that you have done a sewing job and that nothing is happening in Catalonia anymore. Well, it is, Your Honor. Your Honor, find out. That's what the opposition is for, to sing the truths to the government that he doesn't want to see. Be aware, Your Honor, if you are able to stop looking at the mobile phone and look at this rostrum and attend this debate, with all due respect, I say to you, Your Honor. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Be aware that the situation in Catalonia has not improved. The situation in Catalonia is worse with this government, it is much worse, and all economic studies say so. According to BBVA Research's study office, thirty thousand jobs have ceased to be created as a result of the independence process, Your Honor. As Cervantes said, let them speak letters and shut their beards. These are the data, the data you don't mean, the data you hide. You tell us all that the situation is better, and it's a lie, it's a lie; you say it because you want to keep the government, you say it because you want to whitewash your partners, you say it because you want to sit back on the table and tell us a story to the Spaniards. The situation is not better in Catalonia or Spain. This study by BBVA says, ladies and gentlemen, that the political and economic deterioration is reflected in the debt of the Catalan community, which stands at 33.4% of its GDP, EUR 79 billion. With the mismanagement carried out by Quim Torra and, then, by Pere Aragonès - says the study - the Catalan economic deficit rose, already at the time of the pre-pandemic, to 1457 million, three times that of Madrid, located at 579 million. This is known to everyone, the economic world, the international world. Everyone knows, except the government, that they want to hide it. The gross domestic product that has lost autonomy by the process is 4.6%, and the source is Ferran Brunet, of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, is not the People's Party. Catalonia's competitiveness has fallen. In 2010 it was in position 103 at European level, while it is now further away from level 160. Catalonia accounts for 14.4% of Spain's total foreign investment, while Madrid, for example, accounts for 60%. Because Catalonia in these three years has fallen to lead, Your Honor, with its government, not with the governments of the People's Party, with its government, which makes the laws not respected. That's the reality. What is serious is that you do not coordinate to improve Spain or the autonomy, because your job is, exactly, to maintain the support of Mr Sánchez so that he will follow for another time in the Moncloa. We have seen it at the bilateral table, but also in the budgetary negotiations. Let's talk about this, if you like, Your Honor, and if you have no inconvenience. The budgetary negotiations of this government have shown all Spaniards how Congress was a bazaar where you shared with your independence partners all their demands, most of them illegal. Look, I'll give you another example. You know there are thousands of local government officials working hard. I have worked with many of them, and I am very proud of the work I have done, like many of your ladies and gentlemen, of all the political parties, in the local administration, if they have known it and exercised that responsibility there. These local government officials, national enabling bodies, intervenors, secretaries of the municipalities, have seen how the government through the back door, in a budgetary negotiation and through a final provision, gives the PNV the ability to sell there, in its autonomy, which have powers that are unconstitutional. And the secretaries from all over Spain and the speakers have called us, saying that how is it possible for the government to do this, without talking to anyone and unconstitutionally, through the back door and through a final provision, in a budgetary negotiation? Well, this is the government we have. This is the way you act. This is your way - I personally do so in you and Mr Sánchez - of coordinating what, beyond remaining in power for one or two years, until the elections are called and when Mr Sánchez decides, I hope it is urgent, because Spain really is living in a dramatic situation with its Government, ladies and gentlemen. He told him that this body of officials says and tells us that in the People's Party they have to know, as we already know, that articles 62 and 134 of the Constitution have been violated by this final provision when it is a regulation outside the proper content of the budget laws, and that it also violates and directly clashes with article 9.3 of the Constitution on legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, they are very brave to put this in the budgets by the back door, but with all due respect, very cowardly to dialogue with those affected, who, like many Spaniards, wonder what kind of government we represent. This Government continues with its covert pacts, with the lack of transparency, with its divestments to separatists in exchange for support, with the principles of the Constitution, knowing that then, in a few years' time, the Constitutional will come - right? - and that the next Government will bear the consequences of what the previous one has done. That's what you do. Your Honor, that's the reality of how you think. They do not have a photograph of the general interest of Spain. The only painting in Mr. Sanchez's office is that of the months left. That's the only picture, there's no more. And you're the guardian, the jailer of keeping that government united with the separatists. But at what price, Your Honor? At the price of losing the principles of the Socialist Party? At the price of having to come here and come up to this rostrum to deceive us all, to say things they don't think? When you call Otegi a man of state, a man of peace, do you really know what you're saying? Do you really know the lack of respect that you are having for this country, with all that you have suffered, for the victims of terrorism, including many victims of the Socialist Party, the People's Party and those who are here in this Chamber? Do you really know what you think when you deal with Bildu, ladies and gentlemen? I'd like you to say it here, because it's necessary. Spain expects a response from socialism. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your inquiry. We can do two things at a time, don't worry, especially when your speech is anything but original; let's say we've heard it before and it wasn't too difficult. I would also appreciate it if you would not put words in my mouth that I have not said, because so there is no way to have a debate that is moderately useful or moderately constructive. If you don't mind, we discuss what you say and what I say, not what I don't say. It would be a way to give a little bit of quality to the parliamentary debate. Look, this is a government of dialogue, because it carries it in DNA - it carries it in DNA - it is not in vain the first coalition government of the history of democracy. It has 155 seats and, therefore, it has to dialogue, it has to speak and it has to receive input from many parliamentary groups, among which I wish you would ever be in order to carry forward the legislative initiatives. And those agreements with which they do not think like us, because they are different political forces, make us able to have a service sheet that we can, sincerely, be very proud of - very proud of. We have approved in due time two general state budgets, something that did not happen before - that did not happen before -. This coalition government has achieved two General State Budgets to consolidate the economic recovery, so that that economic recovery, which is already here, which we already have in our country, will be consolidated and continue to have record numbers of occupation, employment and economic growth in our country. That is the fundamental objective of the budget laws that we have adopted in this House and, by the way, with 188 Members -188 Members - supporting themselves. We are also proud of the legislative advances we are making: the Climate Change Act; minimum living income; the euthanasia Act; the social shield; the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage; the Protection of Children from Violence Act; and labour reform. You've been against all this. Is that the opposition we expect from you? What is your alternative for our country? Is it true they're against us raising the minimum wage? Are you against euthanasia? Are they against labour reform, against the Climate Change Act, against the Vocational Training Act? What's your alternative? Tell us, because it will also be very constructive for the debate to know what you think. In this legislature we have passed 120 legislative initiatives between laws and royal decrees-laws -120- and they have all come forward with parliamentary majorities in this House. Tomorrow two more are approved; 122 will be the accountant tomorrow. And we will govern, govern, govern, improve the lives of citizens, do it every day, without rest, with no collaboration from the People's Parliamentary Group. [[applause]] We don't believe in any other way of doing politics. Possibly, there are no other ways of doing politics in this House. Dialogue, work, work, receive input, sit down at a table, share the important, move forward, let our country move forward. That's the key. And, look, the rest of me they're not gonna find me. In the mud, in the disqualification, in the fat brush arguments, in the falsehoods, in the bubbles, there I won't be found. You can look for other people, but you won't find me there. He speaks of his question of independence. Look, I'm going to remind you of some territorial tensions that our country has experienced during this 21st century. You will remember the Ibarretxe Plan in 2003. I'm sure you remember the referendum attempt that took place in Catalonia in November 2014. I'm also sure you haven't forgotten the so-called September 2017 disconnection laws. Nor will you have forgotten the referendum of October 1, 2017 that was illegally attempted in Catalonia. Do you know what all these initiatives have in common? They were all with People's Party governments; all of them. [[Applauds]] Therefore, its service sheet for the territorial cohesion of Spain is, at least, questionable - at least, questionable -. And I have to tell you, also with pride, that the Socialist Party is a guarantee of unity and cohesion for Spain, and it will continue to be so. He speaks to me in negative terms of the bilateral table with the Government of Catalonia, which derives from the Statute of Autonomy, a bilateral table which has all the autonomous communities and which derives from strict legality: it has been approved by this House and has left the regional parliaments. You have to understand Spain, let me tell you this. You have to understand the plurality of our country, cultural plurality, linguistic plurality. Spain is a very rich country, very varied, very plural, and the only ones that cannot guarantee this plurality are precisely those that separate the territories, those that face the territories. We always work to make these territories cohesive, so that our country is a country where plurality is recognized and what Spain is: a country with different languages and different cultural expressions. And that's where now and we always reach out to them. We hold hands with the main opposition party in order to reach great agreements in this area too, but you must first understand the plurality of Spain. If you criticize a table that derives from the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, a table that has all the autonomous communities, if you criticize that expression of dialogue and of channelling the issues that concern an autonomous community and that concern the State, if this seems wrong to you is that you have not understood anything, you have not understood what our country is like. In the face of this division, we always bet on unity, on dialogue, on cohesion. We do it in Catalonia, with the so-called agenda for the reunion, with issues that can overcome that unbearable tension that Catalonia suffered during 2017 with a People's Party government, don't forget it. We also work with the State's General Budgets, with a Recovery Plan and also with an annual regulatory plan which aims to ensure that there are no gaps in equality in our country, that all Spaniards have a decent standard of living. Are you in favour of all Spaniards having a decent standard of living? Because if they are in favour, why are they against the interprofessional minimum wage or why did they vote against labour reform? We work so that in Spain all lives and all life projects are worthy, and we do it every day - every day - and sometimes without any support from you or from other political forces, but we get parliamentary majorities to take it forward. You made personal references both to me and to the person of the President of the Government, whom I regret, of course, and which I believe do not bring too much to the debate. I would like us, beyond personal references, to get to the bottom of the issues. I would like to know what opinion you have of the negotiation led by the President of the Government so that Spain would have EUR 69 billion of European funds in direct transfers of the Recovery Plan. I'd like to know your opinion. I would also like to know your opinion on the law of science, on the law of cinema that we have adopted on recent dates in the Council of Ministers. I would like to know your opinion on the content of the rules that we adopt, because we have a fixed course, which is to improve living conditions in our country. I would like you to move away from personal references and talk about politics, useful politics, a country project, because this government and, of course, this party, the Socialist Party, have a country project: a more egalitarian Spain, more solidarity, more growth, more opportunities, more dignity. That is the project of this Government, and I would like to know, at some point, if it is not much to ask, what project you have for this country, for Spain. It's over now. The quality of democracy is also measured by the quality of the opposition itself and the quality of the parliamentary debate. I ask for respect in the personal and alternative in the political. I don't think it's too much to ask. And I ask you, you, the parliamentary group and all the parliamentary opposition groups, because I think our country would be a better country. And that cannot remain in the hands of the ultra-right, which is in other things, in crissparing, in dividing, in returning to past times, with that nostalgia that they have to the dictatorships that we have suffered in this country. You must therefore have an autonomous political project. I will, of course, be glad, and they will have extended the Government's hand to reach out to the great agreements, which are being delayed too much and which are urgent now. I ask you to return to useful politics. We expect you in useful politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u131	With all due respect, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for the tone - it is also good from the diversity of opinions to have a good tone - but with the same and with all due respect I will tell you to let the parties that are constitutional do their job and look in the mirror, because you talk about the far right but you are pacting with Bildu; that is the reality. [[Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, took the Chair.]] Let others make their proposals. I see here every day the proposals of the political groups. We have supported the Government in many laws, and you know it, but you come here to say that the People's Party does not support the Government at all. Of course, in international matters, in the major challenges and in the major international problems, we have expressed support for the President of the Government; of course we have. Why does he come here to say now that the People's Party doesn't, if you know he does? He may spin part of his speech, but it is not understandable; he has no credibility. Therefore, look more in the mirror. We have our program. You talk about euthanasia. We defend life, that is the proposal of the People's Party. You say that the bilateral meeting is in the status of autonomy and that it is something that is happening in other autonomous communities. That's not true, Your Honor. Either he doesn't know or he's lying. Mr Bal, spokesman for Citizens, has just pointed out to me that his political organization has received a reply from the Government saying that this bilateral table is not of the status of autonomy, but is informal. You are therefore lying, and I would therefore ask you to correct it in your speech. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you say that we do not care about the quality of life of the Spaniards. Don't leave any more mantras, Your Honor, I'll tell you with all due respect. The People's Party has taken Spain out of two very strong crises, and it will do so again on this occasion, it will take Spain out of this crisis in which you have it; it has done so with employment, with millions of jobs, it has done so by creating opportunities and yet we are now concerned, like all the Spaniards, because now the youth unemployment of Spain with its government is the highest in the whole OECD. It's not questionable, Your Honor, it's reality, and we're worried. There is a very important scourge, unemployment among children under the age of 30, and this government does nothing, makes no proposals, does not formulate reforms. And I'd like to hear yours too, Your Honor. Minister, it seems to me that by blaming the government for what happened in Catalonia, you have not been right. Blaming the People's Party government for the coup d'état that took place in Catalonia in 2017 is not yours, Your Honor, because the coup was suffered by the government, it was suffered by the Spaniards and it was the coupts you have pardoned and with whom you have agreed. That's the reality, so you can't handle things, Your Honor. I will make it very clear to you, since your government came to power nothing has improved and, of course, the situation in Catalonia - it was said with figures that you have not defeated - has not improved either. Thousands of businesses have left Catalonia condemning thousands of young people to unemployment, there is nothing to celebrate about it. Institutional degradation has grown, for now it has leaders condemned by the Supreme Court for very serious crimes, who feel, Your Honor, stronger because they have been pardoned by your Government, because they are preaching all the corners that they would do it again, because they feel anointed by their self-indulgence, that of you, and they feel immune to the law. That's why you come here to sit with you and walk with command in the square, as Mr. Junqueras did on February 7 in Congress, in the sight of some and to shame and shame of all. Nothing in Catalonia is better when the government does not enforce the law. Your Honor, a government cannot be silent in the face of the improvisations that are being sung by the independenceists at the dialogue table itself to all Spaniards. When the Government condemns the State Security Forces and Corpses to be vaccinated the last in Catalonia, as if they were not Spanish, it is not better in Catalonia. And all this is happening, ladies and gentlemen, through the culture of the good news - like the mantra that you have thrown us here this morning - of the Socialist Party, which does not value the law, which does not protect or value the police, the institutions, the judges or the justice, and which allows judges to be pressured in Catalonia without moving a single finger, without doing anything, without preventing an institutional and lawlessness in Catalonia, because you agree with those who provoke it. A Government that has decided to put the country and the institutions that represent it behind the general interest to remain in power, negotiating with whoever it is. What is that of not complying with the judgments, such as that of 25% in Catalonia of the Fifth Section of the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia? Have they not sung that sentence to the separatists at the dialogue table? The rights of the Canet de Mar child must be respected, which he wants is a better future for his life and for his family. Is it so hard to understand, Your Honor? They fulfill their responsibility and respect the Spanish by enforcing the law. And if you sit on a table of dialogue, we do not want things to go wrong, ladies and gentlemen, we are the constructive opposition - and I conclude, Mr President - we want the benefit of the general interest of our country and we want to see a strong Socialist Party which, when a table of dialogue is made a unconstitutional proposal, is told that this proposal is not worth it, because the law is enforced in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u132	Your Honor, please finish at once.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u133	It ended immediately. A strong Socialist Party, a Socialist Party that is able to defend Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u134	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your intervention and also for your tone. I appreciate, and hope so, a certain purpose for amendment in all that support for the international work that the Government has done, and I hope that it will also translate into support for the national work, because tomorrow we will have approved 122 initiatives in this House. Of 122 initiatives, none like it? There'll be some good ones, won't there? Pure statistics. Well, I hope that that will of agreement and that will to contribute that you express in this atril will also translate into greater collaboration, greater work, a return to useful policy on the part of you in national matters because we have before us, no more or less, to overcome a pandemic, to overcome a pandemic that is what the Government is working on, with results that are already there. I repeat: the table that met on February 18th is the table that derives from the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and the one that has all the autonomous communities. I think there's a bit of confusion between you two. The table of 18 February is the table that derives from the Statute of Autonomy - the pure statutory legality - and it is a table that all the autonomous communities have to deal with the issues that affect the autonomous community in question and the State. By book, book co-governance: working for the interests of the citizens, working together the administrations to resolve the issues that too often are there unsolved for a long time. You are talking about economic figures and employment figures and, in particular, you are talking about youth unemployment. Do you know that in 2021 almost 10% of youth unemployment fell, 9.4% in 2021? Do you know that for the first time since 2008 the youth unemployment rate is below 30% in Spain? That's thanks to record employment figures in our country. [[Applauds]] It is an absolutely objective and absolutely confirmable fact in primary sources. But it is also that the employment data are extraordinary. Let's start there, let's start by recognizing that Spain is having economic growth and recovery as it is reaching families, and the clearest expression that it is reaching families is precisely employment data and affiliation data. It is that we have more people working than before the 2008 financial crisis, of course more than in February 2020, and that is the result of many factors, including exemplary vaccination, but also economic and social policies of the Government that have managed to ensure that jobs are not lost. There have been 3,600,000 Spanish workers who have been protected by the ERTE, 3,6 million workers. There's less than 100,000 left today. Do you remember when you, in a catastrophic way, said those ERTs would become ERs? Well, it wasn't, fortunately it wasn't. On the contrary, these ERTEs have now become jobs, in jobs that have been recovered, which the Spanish Government has protected because we did not want anyone to be helpless in their employment, and we did so through that mechanism, which is ERTEs. As for the references you made to respect for the law throughout Spain and in all the autonomous communities, for, look, I say this to you in capital letters and in bold: with this government the law is respected in all the corners of Spain. [[Applauds]] The law is respected everywhere and everywhere. Of course I do not attribute to you the responsibility for some flagrant illegalities that occurred in Catalonia in 2017. I simply remind you that you were ruling and that at that time, with a People's Party government, the law was not respected and that now, with a Socialist Party government, the law is respected. I think it is also an incontrovertible objective fact. It's over now. Really, believe me, I hope that in the new stage we can understand each other. Of course, you have room, and you must have it, to make opposition, and you must be, first of all, an alternative that is solid, credible, reliable for our country, because it is very important that in our country we have a government as we have it, solid, with a clear direction, with a parliamentary majority to carry out its initiatives and to continue to improve the lives of the citizens, but it is also important that you are in useful politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u136	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to ensure that its strategy and measures against COVID-19 are based on science and not on opportunity. [[File number 172/000173]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u137	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the steps to be taken by the Government to ensure that its strategy and measures against COVID-19 are based on science and not opportunism. For your defence, Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u138	Thank you very much. With venial, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, spring is already intuited, spring is intuited as you were two years ago. How happy you promised them after you had agreed the government of the monster with the Catalan separatists, with those of the axe and the snake, with those of the nuts! How they enjoyed those who were going to storm the heavens and stayed in the capon! When the Wuhan virus killed thousands of Chinese, nothing happened because they were Chinese, like banning a manifestation by the coronavirus, when it was something that came from the East. 'Coronavirus, hey!', their spokesmen sang; 'a flu', the doctors of the regime said; 'they die with coronavirus, not by coronavirus', they said. They denied the reality of the virus just to do their little party on March 8th. Two years ago, but it looks like ten, Minister. Since then no one will be able to shout: live on March 8th!, without their mouth being filled with flavor to crematorium ash. [[Applauds]] That date is stained forever, no one will be able to celebrate it without remembering all the dead that caused that manifestation. For us these deaths have names and surnames, they are not numbers, and there will be no amnesia and there will be justice. [[Applauds]] That viral bomb was possible because the protesters were lied to and the virus spread throughout Spain. You, Minister, were there and suffered its consequences. So there are only two options: one of them is that he was lied to and the other I can't think of mentioning it. To celebrate his feast he lied to the Council of Ministers, because now we do know that they had much more information than they gave us. Not only did they lie to VOX, but they lied to all the Spaniards. In that lie they were assisted by the brigade of left-wing doctors who now continue to make predictions, making them the ball. His talking puppet, that of'some cases at most' despised the death of the elderly, lied about the masks, lied about the tests, everything to justify an unforeseeability and imperience of the government. He counted the thousands of dead with a lunatic smile before Mr. Illa's funeral gaze. Woe to him who took the opposite! Because there was a gentleman dressed uniformly and with brushed hair telling us that they were going to watch over the non-addicts to the regime. They infected us with lies, locked us up illegally with lies, and so they made us sick and ruined us, with tricks. They have varied all epidemiological measurements, they have broken the series, they have made coherent follow-up impossible, ladies and gentlemen. With lies they declared that they had defeated the virus and the Spaniards continued to die. With lies they said that 70% of Spaniards were going to be vaccinated before July 2021, and the Spaniards continued to die. Our parliamentary group warned them about vaccines, about variants, about natural immunity, about group immunity. We proposed that you buy more vaccines at any price, you rejected the motion. And the delta variant came and Spanish people continued to die. You and the nefarious and nefarious autonomy have confabulated to hide the data - two years of epidemic and we do not have a common database - and to give inconsistent messages time, from induction to depression to more irrelevant and incoherent optimism, from black to pink. According to their partisan interests, instead of funded masks and cheap self-diagnosis tests, all Taifas Reyezuels have chosen to lock us up and prohibit our mobility. The COVID passport has been a gross blackmail to induce vaccination, a futile and possibly harmful blackmail. [[Applauds]] Our group, ladies and gentlemen, has been committed to science and there are our interventions. [[Mr Meijón Couselo speaks words that are not perceived]] Yes, Mr Meijón, there are our initiatives to contradict your infuses and those of your accomplices. Always for the truthfulness of the data, always for the tests and then for the vaccines, which we consider the main weapon against the virus, and always, always, ladies and gentlemen, for freedom. [[Applauds]] Unlike other groups, we believe in the responsibility of the Spaniards. Against the confinements we bet that the Spaniards move freely throughout Spain, without any other requirement than the DNI. We have opposed any measures of vaccination obligation against COVID and have denounced the COVID passport, as I said, as blackmailer and useless. That's where we were when the omicron variant came in, infecting everywhere like a fire in a pine tree. Good thing science and industry have invented and manufactured the vaccine, you - as far as I know - haven't invented or manufactured anything, just bought it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a huge difference between forcing and recommending. The recommendation requires an explanation for which it recommends and requires understanding, effort, for which it receives the recommendation. It is the difference between ordering a brute and educating a human being. Only opportunism and propaganda have gone to the Government, as shown in the subject of outdoor masks. I sang one day on the subject of pensions and days later, as were the elections of Castile and León in progress, so come on, we suppressed them. All right. [[Applauds]] The outdoor masks have been maintained, Minister, because they are simply an avatar of collective confinement. As the Constitutional Court has said that you have illegally confined the Spaniards, for come on, let's put on masks. [[Applauds]] Pedagogy. The process of searching for scientific truth is based, ladies and gentlemen, on the experience of the experiment, which in turn is based on the pulsity of methods, on the strength given by the great numbers and on the continuous monitoring of the effects in time, but above all on intellectual honesty and deliberation among those who know. We must explain to the people, not to the people but to the people - it seems they do not like the people - that in the face of any major problem in science there are questions for which we have answers, there are questions for which we do not know their answer and there are questions that we have not imagined to ask them and that one day I suppose we will do them. That's the worst. In short, ignorance must be recognized in science and politics, because this process of truth-seeking must also permeate political action. The bad policy is that of the ignorant, who presumes that he knows to justify what he wants to do anyway, is the dictatorship of the incompetent, and that, ladies and gentlemen, has to change and is going to change. [[Applauds]] This sixth wave is running out. We all want it to be the last and some are even convinced it will be. What have we learned? That we have to adapt our measures to reality, that the totalitarians of all parties prefer to confine themselves to investing in protection and medicines, that it is likely that that virus seeder that is the Chinese markets will continue to inject itself and that it is not impossible for the virus to surprise us again. That is why we are questioning the Government and asking how it is going to detect the evolution of the virus in one direction or another. We need to know a lot, ladies and gentlemen. We need to know all the characteristics - at least the most important - especially of the hospitalized, of those of the ICU and above all of the deceased. We need to know their social and economic conditions, not that postal code course, the diseases they suffer, the medicines they take, if they had been infected before, the vaccines they have received, the time that has passed between the last dose and admission to the hospital and we need to know - very important - the immune state of the Spaniards. We need to know all this, ladies and gentlemen, because we need not only to know better about the virus but also to know who we must protect as a matter of priority, who we must vaccinate again and who are the candidates for the different medicines. It's over. This epidemic and the treacherous, arbitrary and irrational management of governments have not only caused suffering and death, but have inflicted enormous damage on the already scarce confidence of the people in politicians. The prestige of our sanity has been brought into shambles, it's almost sinking. But there is one thing, there is no sensible person in this country who does not recognize that we would be much worse if it were not for science; science has saved us. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. We don't know what the future is preparing for us. Anyone who says he knows or is a madman or a liar and politicians and scientists involved in politicians must stop being pythonous from three to four. I was beginning by saying that today is the beginning of spring, ladies and gentlemen, because it is science that has brought it with vaccines and new medicines. No doubt there are strong reasons for hope and we are closer to regaining the life we had before the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, this moment that we are living now can be forever, or it can be a mere transitional period, even if it lasts for years. In any case, we have to put an end to the policies of the fatty brush, the time has come for the health policy of precision. We need to know exactly who we need to protect and who we don't, we need to know exactly when we need to act and when we don't. For that we need, Minister, continuous and true information. Out of respect for the dead and the pain of their families, out of respect for the sick and because we must be prepared for future epidemics that will come, we ask the Government: on that journey, Mrs Darias, are you going to follow the difficult path of science or are you going to take, as you have done so far, that of totalitarianism and arbitrariness? Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u139	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had certainly prepared an intervention with the rigour and respect that this House deserves. In view of Mr Steegmann's speech, I must say that his speech is the clear reflection of the behaviour and position of his group, which represents what it represents. [[Applauds]] Of course, a pamphlet intervention, an intervention loaded with sectarianism, loaded with totalitarianism and loaded with what you understand to mean this country and the lack of respect no longer to this minister - I have listened to you carefully and with great respect because I have it to your person and you know it well - but you have failed to respect with your intervention to the citizens of this country, especially the people who, unfortunately, are no longer with us. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] I am going to make the intervention I had prepared because if something deserves me this House is respect, and citizenship, too. Two years ago the WHO declared the pandemic by COVID-19, the biggest health crisis we have faced in more than a century. During all this time of difficulty science has been opening the way to bend a virus that has altered coexistence throughout the world. From the outset, experts from both the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities, scientific societies and health professionals have provided the best of themselves and have enabled the health authorities to adopt the best strategic responses according to the epidemiological situation at every moment. Responses that have shaped our strategies; strategies and plans that capture all the measures implemented in our country to address the pandemic. And we do it from the co-governance, because this government and the party I represent believe in the autonomous state, which has brought the greatest welfare state to our country. [[Applauds]] Unlike you who not only do not believe, but if it were for you you would eliminate it. I make a call to those who support governments with you. Are you going to allow the state to end the autonomy that VOX is promoting? Is that what the groups who consider themselves democrats want - and so I consider them - in this House? It is a question that, of course, is in the environment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, accompanied by the exemplary response of the citizenry, always by the hand of scientific evidence and by the hand of one of the best public health systems in the world, we have been able to develop strategies at the hand of science. Strategies that today are global reference, such as the early detection strategy for pandemic surveillance and control; a strategy that is always under constant review, but also the Transition Plan to the New Normality, because we enter without navigation letters. If I have one thing to say, ladies and gentlemen, it is that this Government is going to leave a legacy to future governments of what are the road maps to be established to deal with future threats. But I can also quote, with the rigour that this intervention requires, the Early Response Plan in a scenario of control of the pandemic by the COVID-19, elaborated since the co-governance, to reduce the impact of the pandemic and to prepare the capacities of our country, as well as the protocol for the integration of genomic sequencing in surveillance, key in the detection and monitoring of variants to deal with the consequences of each of them. I will not leave behind the strategy of coordinated response actions for the control of the transmission of COVID, because it has been and is being key and establishes a framework for action for a proportional response in each territory, depending on the level of contagion indicating the different levels of alert, based on the set of epidemiological indicators and the public health and care capacity of that territory. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, something that has burdened many - and I say this with sadness - because talking about the vaccination strategy is talking about a country success, it is talking about a collective success that you have denied from the beginning because it was opposed to the centralised purchase of vaccines from the European Union. That has been a key element in ensuring that sufficient doses are available and that Spain becomes, as it is, a world leader. Look, in order to carry out the vaccination strategy in the road map, as I have just said, the work of the experts in the vaccine presentation, made up of persons who are experts in the field of vaccine technology from both the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities and also from scientific societies, has been fundamental. In this context, Spain has also gone hand in hand with international bodies, with scientific evidence, with recommendations from bodies such as the WHO, such as the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the ECDC, and also the European Medicines Agency, the EMA. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been the responsible course of action of the Government of Spain to which I have been a part since the beginning of the pandemic with the commitment and determination to tackle the virus and give horizons to citizens. You have been in something else, you have been in the defamation, you have been in the obstruction, even, raising doubts about whether some of your leaders have been vaccinated or not. [[Applauds]] Is that responsibility? That's not responsibility. That's turning your back on what this country needs and the pandemic too. Moreover, we have done so in times of greatest difficulty and we have not done so with the support of political forces, at least part of the House; yes, on a large part, to which I acknowledge the effort they have made. But, moreover, we have done so from the beginning with the organ that has become the vault architecture of co-governance, which is the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. I know you don't believe in the autonomous communities. I know you don't believe in the decentralized state. I know that you want other regimes - as you have done here today clearly - that you do not know that we have had a dictatorship. [[Applauds]] I know you want that, but, of course, this minister and this Parliament are going to stand up to those who want to remember another time that has never been better. Therefore, not one step back nor one right less. But also, Your Honor, at this point, I believe it is essential to stress that in this path of struggle, despite the various curves, rebels on numerous occasions, there has been something that has been fundamental and that today is the turning point against the struggle in this pandemic, and it is vaccination, that has become the best weapon we have to fight and end the virus. This is why I stress what I said before, that the centralised purchasing agreement - not only with vaccines, now also with the joint procurement of other medicines - is being key and, of course, has been a fundamental element for us in Spain to have, at present, more than 91% of people over the age of twelve years with a full schedule. This has been the product of the centralized purchase, of the leadership of the Spanish Government, of the work of the autonomous communities, of course, of health professionals, and, of course, of exemplary behaviour of the citizenry, despite - despite - you. It is not by chance that international agencies have publicly praised us for managing not only in vaccination, but also in the pandemic. He highlighted the World Health Organization, Dr. Tedros, but also Dr. Kluge, who has made us worthy of this recognition, and also the Commissioner of the European Union, for the magnificent vaccination campaign, which has allowed us to guarantee the availability of sufficient doses not only for now, but also for the following years. One thing I am particularly proud of from the Government to which I belong is the solidarity vaccination campaign, because no one will be safe until all humanity is, and the Government of Pedro Sánchez leads the international vaccination; it is more than 57 million doses to vaccinate Latin America, Africa, Asia and Oceania. [[Applauds]] That's commitment, that's government and that's solidarity. At the time we are, with the consolidated decline of all epidemiological indicators, we need to open up new scenarios in the hand of scientific evidence, but we need to reflect on where we are going. Clearly, this sixth wave has nothing to do with the previous waves, especially if we compare it with the third wave at the same time of time, a year ago, and with the same group condition, because we are being able to establish new horizons in these characteristics that increasingly has an endemicity, without it still being. We are already in this process of reflection, assessment, to continue to enable new ways to measure this pandemic, and we do so with the contribution of the experts of the interterritorial council's alerts, but also with our European partners to go hand in hand with all caution, but taking firm steps because citizens also need hope. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude this speech, of course, by deeply regretting your speech and something that you have already done to me once in the Commission, and it has hurt you, and I am doing it again here today. You have no right to talk about my contagion. When I get infected you have no right to speak, because I do have the right to say that some of your territorial leaders went to certain countries where it wasn't recommended at the beginning, when the pandemic started, back in 2020, and that's what you say nothing about. [[Applauds]] No, Mr Steegmann, I think you're wrong, I think that's not the way, because I deserve all the respect from you, which you didn't have today. In any case, I will respect you and this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u141	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u142	With venial, Mr. President. Minister, I'm not mad. You said the contagion, not me. [[Applauds]] Look, it's called my pamphlet surgery. Well, I invite everyone who sees this and hears you compare your intervention with mine and tell them what was the most pamphlet. [[Applauds]] Undoubtedly, your intervention. Look, Your Honor, our parliamentary group speaks louder when it writes and what we have written is in our parliamentary proposals and interventions. As I said before, what we have proposed is free vaccination. In vaccines - I have repeated it many times throughout my intervention - we did not object to the centralized purchase but to making complementary purchases. You're wrong or you're confusing us. Well, we love to see that we don't fit in your prejudices. Here you failed to mention Tejero and all this, is the typical thing that we are always accustomed to, but this is going to end. If we're going to rule in nothing! [[Applauds]] Look, I'm going to tell you one thing about the autonomous state of confusion. It is not I, ladies and gentlemen, who was former Minister García Vargas, one of the most respected people, who at this parliamentary seat a few days ago said that the National Health System could be better baptized - since it had no national character, and you know it - as an inter-autonomous health system. And you confuse with the post hoc fallacy ergo propter hoc that all that has been good in Spain has been because it coincides in time with autonomy. No, man, no, it has coincided with economic development, with social development, with the invention of new medicines, with the invention of new vaccines and with the invention of new neoplastic drugs. [[Applauds]] You, the autonomous state, are an obstacle to good governance of health. And look, you haven't mentioned this national public health centre that you want to implement and missed me. Do you know why I don't think you mentioned it? Because you will not be allowed to do so by your separatist partners, who are not at all interested in the coordination and unification of health. [[applause]] Those separatist and racist partners who call us carnegos and models. With these are those with which you govern, they are the enemies of Spain and yes, I strongly affirm that they are the enemies of our health. I'm done. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u143	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, the Minister is already speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Steegmann, you're not listening. I ask you to listen to your speech to see why I have told you what I have said in response to what you have said. There is something that is really important and it is to thank you for the interventions that you, the VOX Parliamentary Group, have in the House, because citizens know what you represent and what you are. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] They have it very clear, they have it very clear. And, therefore, what will also be clear is that, with the utmost respect that I deserve, ideologically and dialectically, this minister will be faced with it. With your hand stretched out but, of course, discussing what you ideologically are; what you represent and what we represent is in the antipodes. Anyway... [[Rumors]] Thank you for your education, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] The word is beautiful and the word allows us, at least, to counter and discuss. I believe that it is important and I believe that this House, if anything, is the agora of the word and, therefore, listening to those who are using it should not only be a question of respect, but an obligation of those who make up this House. I have bad news for you, Mr. Steegmann. I have bad news. I have bad news because the state public health center will be a reality. I have bad news because the surveillance network in this country is going to be modernised and updated with concrete funds and already transferred to the autonomous communities. I have bad news for you, because this Ministry of Health works tirelessly to continue to face the pandemic and the health threats present and future. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I have bad news for you, but I have fantastic news for the citizens of this country, because it is true that the pandemic has left us a lot of uncertainty, but also certainties. Certainties of the commitment of our healthcare professionals, who already knew but who have especially beaten copper in this pandemic. Certainties of the commitment of the autonomous communities to the work they are doing, of all colors. And certainties in the commitment and determination of the Government of Spain to leave no one behind and face the biggest health crisis with economic and social impact, and weaving the biggest social and economic shield in this country's history. [[Applauds]] I have bad news because I have to tell you that we are going to follow the hand of scientific evidence and observational study, giving answers to every situation the pandemic poses. And I have bad news because this government is determined to continue taking firm steps forward to improve people's lives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u145	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u146	We continue and move on to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government is going to take to prevent ETA from deciding on Spain's prison policy. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs López Álvarez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u147	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In case there's any doubt, the facts. Today we are going to rat out, unravel and unravel Mr. Grande-Marlaska's lies from this rostrum last week. He repeated to us twice that third-degree progressions granted by penal institutions to different ages were based on legality, judicial control and that even third-degree progressions had been made by judicial decision against the criterion of penal institutions. He referred specifically to terrorists José Pedro Pikabea Ugalde, Juan Carlos Herrador Pouso and Antonio Troitiño. He lied to the Minister of the Interior in a deceivable and deliberate manner at the parliamentary seat because, indeed, José Pedro Pikabea was progressed third degree in February 2019, when the central judge of Prison Surveillance estimated his appeal for reform against two resolutions of the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions, but what he forgot to tell the Minister in a crooked manner is that those resolutions of the General Secretariat denying the progression to the third degree of this age were January and March 2018, that is, when he ruled the People's Party and were neither he nor his interlocutor with the representatives of the prisoners of the age, Mr Angel Luis Ortiz. [[Applauds]] But if the defachation with which he lied did not seem enough, he came to give us another example, that of the age Juan Carlos Herrador Pouso, who, following his road map with the heirs of ETA, has moved on two occasions within a little more than a year, from the prison of Ocaña I to the prison of El Dueso, in Cantabria, and from El Dueso to Bilbao. Grand-Marlaska said that it had been progressed in August 2020 by the Central Prison Surveillance Judge, contrary to the general secretariat's approach. And here comes the height of indecency and its indignity, because this age is not that it has not been advanced to the third degree by the central judge, against the criterion of Prison Institutions, but that until today it remains in second degree. Thus, once we have found that for the Minister of the Interior the gifts that come from justice and truth are not superior to those that originate in the conspiracy, fact that we could also verify in his intervention - among other calumnies, Grande-Marlaska said that ETA does not direct the prison policy because ETA no longer exists -, tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what does that statement have when I look at the front from here and see five ETA heirs sitting at the seat of national sovereignty, which confirms what we have been saying for all time, that ETA is in the institutions and that it is the government of Pedro Sánchez, with his Minister of the Interior at the head, that whitewashes assassins and protera to remain on the throne of indecency. [[applause]] Look where, in the end, it turns out that a minister of the Interior, who must ensure the legality and full compliance with the sentences imposed on the prisoners of the terrorist gang ETA, is dedicated to treating with undeserved courtesy terrorist prisoners, bloody criminals, from the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions and it is that, according to us in response to our inquiry, second-degree approaches and progressions occur in law enforcement and judicial control; a perverse statement because both approaches and second-degree progressions occur without respect for the technical reports of the treatment boards. In addition, the minister had to cite the impossibility of appeal by the prosecutor's office, since these are progressions which are subject to the central judge of prison supervision only by means of appeal of the prisoner and, of course, in the face of a progression of degree, no prisoner will appeal. The same applies to the transfer of prison facilities, which are not judicialized without the will and appeal of the prisoner, because there is no appeal by the prosecutor's office. Therefore, here comes as a ring to the finger that accomplice and murderer go in the same way. [[Applauds]] In the hangover of immorality in which Mr. Grande-Marlaska lives permanently, he rejoices in deception and also denies that there is a underground channel of communication between the Ministry of the Interior, through its general secretariat, and representatives of the terrorist organization ETA and its political arms, as reflected in the report of the Civil Guard by all known. In the same misdemeanour, the same day that from this rostrum denies any preferential treatment to ETA prisoners, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National Court resorted to the third degree progression granted by Prison Institutions to three other ETA prisoners, after it revoked three third grades for improper, premature or contrary to the criteria of the treatment boards. He did not count the unworthy Minister of the Interior with so much stone on his way to the last end, that of the release of ETA terrorists; the last end of his coronation as the greatest traitor to Spain and the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] It is clear that Mr Marlaska will not stop lying until he has completed his collection, the collection of third-degrees and approaches promised in exchange for the heat of phylotterrorists in the whole valley, so as to finish the most desolating legislature in all history. [[Applauds]] But to the dirty rags of its failure, out of disloyal, prison policy granting third degrees and benefits to terrorists, along with the degradation to the professionals of penal institutions to which, by inertia, it had already abandoned, combined with the permissiveness shown in the face of the celebration of acts of tribute to those condemned for terrorism and betraying the victims, we must unite its inability to placate the crisis of citizen insecurity throughout Spain, its disastrous management in one of the biggest migratory crises that are remembered on the Spanish coasts and also the invasion of Ceuta in May 2021. And more Mr. Marlaska's dirty rags. Among them, the destabilization of our State Security Forces and Corpses and their contribution to their expulsion from the Basque Country and Navarre. Anybody got any more? Because I will not be denied that there are grounds for public reprobation and the immediate dismissal of Mr Grande-Marlaska as Minister of the Interior, which is what we urge in this motion to the Government. Because it is more than well-founded that the chains of slavery must be removed from Spain with terrorists before arbitrary decisions and with criteria exclusively for political support. And because a minister...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u148	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u149	Yeah. It's over, Mr. President. ... that puts a price on everything, including the memory and dignity of the victims of terrorism and justice, a minister who is servile to terrorists, knows the value of no one and has therefore conquered discredit and misery in their management, and, as such, their condemnation cannot be other than their dismissal. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u150	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u151	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that we are seeing a motion here that is only already displeased: to have to come to the Congress of Deputies, to represent national sovereignty, to talk about how prison policy privileges can be maintained in order to sustain a government. The first thing to do, of course, Mrs López, is to thank her for proposing this initiative, because it is a real shame that those privileges, those prison benefits can be used, with the sole aim of supporting a Government and approving budgets. Of course, there have been many things we have to blame Fernando Grande-Marlaska, but this is particularly disgusting. It is particularly disgusting, and that is why you must resign, and if not, Mr Sánchez must cease. I want to tell you here that I have shared benches, with my state attorney's robe, with Fernando Grande-Marlaska, who was a person to whom I had great respect in his fight against terrorism. However, I have to say here too - with sadness, of course - that I no longer have that respect, because it cannot be left in the hands of the successors of Batasuna... Batasuna, the illegal training with respect to which I have also spent many hours of my work on these illegalizations and of which the sentences say it was the political arm of terrorism. The successors of terrorism will decide the prison policy of the terrorists who are in prison. But this is it! This is nonsense. And that Batasuna behaves like Batasuna, well, it doesn't surprise anyone, but that the PSOE behaves like Batasuna is a humiliation for Spain. This is absolutely unacceptable. With our amendment, Mrs López, what we intend to do is to strengthen your initiative. But make it clear that, in any case, we will vote in favour of your motion, because the first thing is the victims and what cannot be done is to erase the memory of the pain, which is what the Spanish Government wants to do right now. They want to remember the Civil War, they want to remember episodes of eighty years ago and yet they want us to forget about ten years ago, when ETA killed innocent people in our country. It is an absolute immorality, absolute!, to change prisoners for budgets, for support. Mr. Grande-Marlaska, at a time when Baltasar Garzón took a sabbatical year, took charge of the investigation of the Faisán case, when it seems that the Government of Spain was negotiating with ETA. Well, look, that - I don't know if Mr. Grande-Marlaska remembers this - was collaboration with the armed gang, it was a crime of collaboration with the armed gang. And is there a substantial difference now with a settlement with Bildu in exchange for breaking the law and granting prison benefits and even third-degrees that then revokes the National Court? It's a humiliation. The investigation of the Civil Guard is certainly alarming: 'Next Tuesday I have a new meeting with Angel Luis - who is not an angel, is the Secretary General of Prison Institutions - do you have anything concrete? Because we will appreciate very positively the movement of Aitzol Gogorza in the logic of other movements that you have already made.' Will we be very positive about what, to approve the budgets? In order to support the Government in a law, do we appreciate very positively the movement of an etarra prisoner to bring him closer to the prisons of the Basque Country and Navarre? Look, on the same day that the Government presents its draft accounts for the year 2021, eight prisoners, eight prisoners convicted of killing national police, civilian guards, members of the Spanish Army and politicians, are moving. But do you know what the year is when more prisoners are brought closer together? In 2020, when Bildu's support for the budgets for 2021 is needed. How many times has the Socialist Party voted against banning tributes to ETA prisoners? Five times he has voted against, and during the Sanchez era 619 tributes have been made, all of which he trusts that the terrorist band ETA says they will not repeat themselves again. I just want to end by saying that of course Citizens, our party, as long as it can leave Bildu and Esquerra out of the decisions of the Spanish Government, will be there. There's hope for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u152	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a lot of talk this week about sanitary cords. I like to call them ethical laces. And yes, I very much agree with the ethical cords. I believe that ethnic cordons must be put on those who have applauded and jailed terrorism, those who have looked elsewhere every time a shot has been fired in this country, those who come out to this rostrum of the Congress of Deputies to read full communiqués from a terrorist gang. [[applause]] Of course you have to put on an ethical cord! We must also put an ethical cordon to all those who have struck our institutions in Catalonia, we must put an ethical cordon to all those who have gone out on the streets of the Basque Country, of Navarre, of Catalonia, to tear down shops, to tear down people's lives, to say that the street belongs to them; to those we must put an ethical cordon. [[applause]] But are those the Socialist Party wants to put on an ethical cordon? No, the Socialist Party incorporates them into the leadership of the State. And then it takes us to a macabre game, which is a trap, which is: I can deal with whoever I want and you can't deal with anyone. As you cannot agree with anyone, or have absolute majority, or no government, and therefore I can only govern; without principles, without scruples, without ethics. [[Applauds]] And he who has lost ethics, principles and scruples starts to give lessons in ethics and scruples to others. That is the degradation of the Government's policy that we are seeing with sanchism, that is the degradation that we are witnessing. And we saw it the other day also in the pact you made with the president of UPN to say that you were now going to fine those who paid tribute to the prisoners of ETA. But, just in case, at three days, again lying, they came to this House and voted against banning it. And it's that you can't trust anyone because you live in permanent deception. And there's one thing, about ethics is not negotiated, ethics is understood and practiced. Therefore, on prisoners there is no negotiation, on prisoners there is a minimum without which one does not sit. There is nothing to talk about that you can't reach the institutions with whom you have applauded the shots, the extortions, the tributes and still not a millimeter of ETA's strategy; there is nothing to talk about. [[Applauds]] That's why I think this motion has only one mistake - we're going to support it, but it has one mistake - and that's that the one to blame is not Marlaska, it's Sanchez, because this happens because Sanchez wants it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u154	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u155	Thank you. Well, I'm becoming a specialist in this kind of right-wing group therapies that occasionally mounts around this subject. Because how many times have you presented this, how many times? And how many do they have left? I understand it's because they get an electoral revenue, but, I warn some of the right-wings who have spoken here today, only one of the right-wing groups gets it: the ultra-right. I warn sailors, because it has been proved - in fact, a gentleman has left this morning at the first hour after trying to assimilate to the ultra-right, and it has gone quite badly, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens - that when you want to assimilate to the ultra-right, the ultra-right wins, and there are many speeches here that make - the ETA, Catalonia - that they feel quite badly. It's funny to me when you call us, especially at this point in time, coupsmen, when just today, 23 February, one of the public coups has ended to the apparatus of a more flagrant party in our history; that is, that some of you in this House - above all, I am curiously referring to the few Members of the People's Party - call us coupsmen at this point when you have executed a coup against your own apparatus, at least curiously. We just came here today to tell you something. I am very proud of the coordination agreement, the brotherhood, the affinity and the cooperation we have with the left abertzale, I am very proud of the agreement we have with EH Bildu. I feel very proud and I set an example for you. Nothing, half an hour ago - it hardly gives me time to listen to you, take four notes and answer you -, we have been in a workers' demonstration here for a very worthy cause, so that once and for all asbestos will be removed from your workplaces. Among others, there were workers, for example, from the Madrid Metro, and some of you will be able to tell someone like me what matters to the Madrid Metro. For I care, I care because it is working class and we will always be at the side of any just cause of the working class, whether in Madrid or in Despeñaperros, in Tegucigalpa or in Vic, it doesn't matter. [[Applauds]] And who was there next to us and who actually got a law to try to end this wasn't you, pandreeta patriots talking about ETA every day, it was EHBildu. So continue with their banners and spread patriotism as a tambourine, that anti-Spain will continue to fight for the working class, living where it lives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u156	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u157	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. Today we find ourselves again a motion of VOX, and I will speak not only as representative of Unidad Podemos, but as a Basque citizen. This motion of VOX shows a total disconnection with what it feels and with what happens in Euskadi. They are light years away from the majority feeling of Basque society. I even dare to say and say that the disconnection of VOX is also given with respect to the Spanish legal system itself, curiously, and I will start there. Their motion is a sum of statements that have neither feet nor heads if viewed from the minimum of respect for human rights or from the minimum bases of a democratic State or a rule of law. Thus, the motion affirms that special treatment is given to prisoners; it says: 'granting them progression of degree and transferred to prisons in the Basque Country'. Yes, but perhaps, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have not yet learned that both issues are expressly covered by Spanish law and that it is the Spanish Constitution, in its article 25, which states that the purpose of the prison sentence is the re-education and social integration of convicted persons. Therefore, that is what needs to be done and, of course, from the United Nations. We believe that all ordinary prison benefits that are legally applicable to prisoners should be applied with complete normality and equal treatment. On the other hand, with reference also to the Constitution and the principle of reintegration, Spanish legislation itself stipulates that prison sentences must be served in the nearest place and in the root of the prisoner, but this is also said by the European Court of Human Rights and the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. And with regard to the release of severely ill prisoners, let me read a few words. The Prison Rules provide for the release of prisoners who are in a situation of suffering and serious illness, and we believe that the application of this article with broad interpretative criteria based on generosity and humanitarian principles is a demand widely supported by this society, both political and social, and it would be desirable to do so. Do you know who said these words and when it was? Well, I'll tell you, they're from Gesto for Peace in 1996, almost thirty years ago. It is clear that you are light years away from the majority feeling of Basque society. Basque society wants no hatred, no grudge, no revenge. Basque society is building a cohesive society based on the principles of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. Let's see if it gets in their heads. In their motion they claim, for example, that what the Government does is a lack of respect for the victims. Do you know what a lack of respect for the victims is? That they be used in a spurious and partisan manner in a constant way for purposes that have nothing to do with them. In addition, there are already many victims who publicly ask them not to use them, who ask them to leave them alone. Please respect the victims. And I'm done. I end by recalling the twenty-second anniversary of the murder by ETA of Vice-Lendakari, a Basque socialist, Fernando Buesa, and his escort, Jorge Díez. These days in Euskadi different events have been organized in his memory to remember, not to forget and to accompany his relatives, his friends and his comrades of the Socialist Party of Euskadi. That's the way. In the face of hypocrisy and the hatred of VOX, the dignity of the victims of ETA and their families. Sara Buesa, daughter of the Basque politician killed by ETA, reflected these days on how Basque society could face the memory of that traumatic recent past, that of ETA terrorism, and wondered how we can free ourselves, rebuild our community from the trauma and make way for a new future. There are two options - he said -: we could do nothing, let go of time and forget, or we could approach this dark chapter of our history to heal, learn from our experience and not make the same mistakes. And that's why he asked not to ever leave the memory behind and build a future in which no exclusive political project has room. Gentlemen of VOX, I repeat, listen to the victims and stop doing politics with their pain. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u158	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mateu Istúriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u159	Mr. President, come on. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. My first words are greeting all the victims of terrorism, with special affection and affection for those present here. Of course, we will do as many initiatives in defence of the victims of terrorism as the victims have caused ETA. [[Applauds]] That, bear in mind, we have the strength and the capacity to be the representatives, the voice of those whose lives were miserably kidnapped by the terrorist band ETA. [[The applause continues]] Called Heroes of Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, are the victims of terrorism. And at this time, even more complicated, it is more difficult with this social-communist government that is trying to crush itself. I begin my speech by thanking prison officials for the magnificent work they are doing, but which now seeks to be overshadowed by the underground activity of prison policy, which obeys nothing more than political convenience and is led by the traitorous interlocutors of the Ministry of the Interior, accompanied, of course, by the proletarian world. We have already taken the necessary steps for prison officials by submitting a proposal for a law, which you all know because it is in the Journal of Sessions. Again, ladies and gentlemen, thanks go to the Civil Guard. Why? Because they have demonstrated this disgusting underground channel of conversations between the Ministry of the Interior and the protera world, and also a familiarity - forgive me the expression, it is not parliamentary- of a genuinely drooling nature. In a rule of law, we cannot allow the Secretary-General, Mr Ortiz, to represent the voice of the Government in the granting of prison privileges to ETA through underground talks. But, ladies and gentlemen - you know it well, it has been said to the full - what is more serious is that the qualified interlocutor for these murderers is Kubati, the murderer of thirteen people, sentenced to 1214 years in prison, twenty-six years in prison, two years in prison, ladies and gentlemen, for murder. How cheap it is to kill! And it also weighs a very delicate circumstance on this individual. As can be seen from that magnificent report of the Civil Guard, he has direct conversations with imprisoned and fleeing members. That is the most serious thing, ladies and gentlemen, members of the ETA terrorist gang. By the way, you won't know, but I've studied it. This gentleman, this individual, is employed by a sortu foundation called Iratzar, whose income comes precisely from the sortu political party. According to the latest accounts that I have been able to analyze - those of 2019-, they contribute 340,000 euros to this foundation. Of course, the Basque Government is also contributing 60 000. How public money is destined to finance foundations that only have between their ends is to crush the victims of terrorism! Ladies and gentlemen, it is also clear from this report that there is a murderous age which precisely killed the Socialist Minister Ernest Lluch, who has also been privileged by these measures. But what is not wasted, ladies and gentlemen, is the Civil Guard report on page 40. With that tone of affection, Mr.Aizpurua says: Dear Angel Luis... - I shudder because the message is long, here they have it, in this blue zone -... in this case we ask that, in accordance with the will of the prisoner and his environment, if not for an approach at least in the line of the previous - softer -, this movement is not carried out. [[shows a document]] Carefully, the signatory. Ladies and gentlemen, does this not fit within the Criminal Code? I wonder. And above all these people fly, as always, the man of peace, this Otegi. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to know that this policy of the Government of Spain is currently contrary to the provisional conclusions adopted by the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament, which visited us last November, which says: not a single prison benefit to those who do not help to clarify the 378 murders of the terrorist band ETA still unresolved and without putting their perpetrators at the disposal of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we must say to Mr Marlasca: Minister, who has seen him and who sees him! We do not give credit - well, I do give credit for his career in recent years, since he is obviously a minister - to his negotiations to soften the convictions of prisoners. Have you forgotten the pressure placed on the Zapatero government in the Faisán case? Ladies and gentlemen, the victims of terrorism have said that so far we have arrived and that is why on 2 April we will go out on the streets - yes, they force us to go out on the streets - sponsored by the Association of Victims of Terrorism and other associations, under the slogan 'Not everything is good. Traitorial government. Justice for victims of terrorism'. That is why we have repeatedly called for the dismissal and resignation of Minister Marlaska. I again take the opportunity on behalf of my parliamentary group to ask for it, and we of course adhere to the small sum of this questionable motion when it says that we must reproach Minister Marlaska, who is ardent as he is the enforcer of this miserable policy with the prisoners and favours them to the detriment of the victims of terrorism. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u160	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr José Vélez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. There are obvious things that not because they are obvious should stop pointing out. Mr Bal, right-wing groups, groups in general: ETA does not exist, it only exists in the imagination of those who want to make use of a memory for disastrous interests. [[Applauds]] While it is true that during the years in which the terrorist organization was active it caused enormous suffering to the whole of society, especially to the victims and their families, and also, how can I say, to my comrades and comrades in the Vasco Country - they will allow me, on behalf of my group, to send a fraternal hug to the families and friends of Fernando Buesa and his escort, Jorge Díez, who were murdered as yesterday, twenty-two years ago - it is no less true than with the initiatives that in a contumid and repeated way presented by the proposing group - which are thrown out, sponsored by the right-wing groups and even by those who claim to be liberals - what they do, without a doubt, is to remove again in the wounds that remained behind, patrimonialized blatantly the pain of the victims with only one objective: to obtain political revenues. [[applause]] That, at least, is embarrassing. The questioning that gives rise to this motion was dismantled by the minister but, not content with it, again today base some interventions on the same bulls, lies and insidies. By the way, at some point in this motion or in the addendum amendment is there any point where the Government is accused of not complying with the law? Prison policy in our country is based on the principles of article 25 of our Constitution. I am not going to influence this because the spokesman of the United Nations has already done so.We can, but, unlike the policy that was practiced with right-wing governments, as the minister also pointed out, VOX was not then; well, he was immersed in the People's Party until he formed the split that they are now. But then they admitted another kind of obscurantist policy: 805 transfers in the toughest era. And this party was always on the side of the government, which we cannot say when you are in opposition. [[Applauds]] But, even more, they now show tremendously belligerent with strict compliance with the law. It already seems that they are not only crying out for law enforcement, but they are crying out for revenge. What sadness and reproach for a society that has already overcome alterrorism. It is a curious way of observing the same reality according to different interests: to erode the government by not importing them to erode the institutions as well. I will remind you of some famous phrases; I almost run out of time, but they are important: There must be no winners or losers, Miguel Ángel Rodríguez, the great guru who has put the game on them as he has: legs up. [[Applauds]] José María Aznar: I am willing to be generous if necessary; convinced at the end of dialogue; the Government will know how to be generous. Miguel Sanz: In this generosity Navarra is going to be - I don't know if he is Mr Sayas' partner, I can't ask why he's gone, nor Mr.Adanero because the infamous vote of the other day has not allowed him to be in the House -. [[Applauds]] And also: I do not ask even an explicit condemnation of his crimes, but that they comply with democratic rules, José María Aznar. At the moment, I insist, the PSOE has always been with the government; unfortunately, now you are still absent or on the other side, setting fire. This Government supports the victims of terrorism, all the victims, and makes it concrete and with the utmost respect, unlike the previous Government, as has already been shown. I will finish with a reflection in the thirty-five seconds that I have left: not everything is worth it. If, in order to involve a request for the reprobation, resignation or dismissal of a minister, it is necessary to miserably and obscenely use those who claim to defend - the victims of terrorism and the officials of penal institutions - it is not all worth it. That's enough. We'll vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs López Álvarez, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u163	The vote will take place on their terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u164	Okay, thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the policy of the Ministry of the Interior for the prevention and eradication of the criminal activity of organized and violent groups of young people. [[File number 173/000125]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u165	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the policy of the Ministry of the Interior for the prevention and eradication of the criminal activity of organized and violent youth groups. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Álvarez Fanjul has the floor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. How many Spaniards have to be stabbed with machetes on our streets for this government to react, ladies and gentlemen? In the last police operation against the youth gangs, conducted just a few hours ago, there have been almost 7,000 identified, 48 arrested and the confiscation of at least 35 weapons. This situation is defined by the government delegate, Mercedes González, as having very good results. What are very good results, gentlemen of the PSOE? What exactly is the safety success in this government, which increases sexual assault by 9.2% in 2021, that in Madrid we have 32 cases of sexual assault per day, more than one case per hour; that even drug trafficking has increased by 9.9%? Have you bothered to talk to Madrid's senior prosecutor, Almudena Lastra, who blames a third of the murders - a third - on people related to this type of criminal organization? The Group of the European People's Party is presenting this motion today, which was the result of the inquiry that took place on 16 February, because we are concerned about the lack of security in our country and because we are shocked by the indolence of this Government, which seems to be more important to the headlines than the victims themselves. In that interpellation Mr Marlaska said that Spain was safe, that we have the lowest crime rate in the last five years and that insecurity was not resolved by amending laws but by avoiding cutting public services, and the paradox is that he said, at the same time, that the operating devices do not determine them by the Government, but that they are updating plans that, curiously, obviously affect those operations. Let us congratulate Minister Marlaska, then, because, according to what he says, Spain is still safe, although months ago it seems to be unable to tread on it. Spain is so sure that Minister Marlaska has to reward the prison management teams with economics to collapse the prisons and facilitate a greater number of third-degrees, even if that supposes that monsters like the alleged murderer of the child in Lardero, La Rioja, who obtained the third-degree regime in February 2020, will go out on the street. Spain is so sure that every weekend we read stabbings, machetes and murders among minors in various cities in Spain. And as Spain is so sure, Mr Marlaska's best occurrence is to reform the Law on Citizen Security to restrict searches and prevent the identification of foreigners. You cannot treat the Security Forces and Bodies as if they were potential thugs and criminals as if you were quality sisters, ladies and gentlemen, because that produces what we are already suffering in the streets of Spain: more homicides, more sexual assaults, more crime and, ultimately, more insecurity for all and greater loss of freedoms in our country. And, in the face of criticism, the only thing Mr Marlaska has been able to say has been to insinuate that the People's Party government has promoted a law on citizen security to protect itself or that we use the pain of society for our slogans. Ladies and gentlemen, please, that you govern with the five seats of ETA and with the ultra-left that asked to politicize the pain. Or don't you remember who you're ruling with? When you manage you only bring crime, ruin and unemployment. I will not allow them to use a subject of great seriousness such as the increase in violent aggressions between organized individuals to confront the Rajoy government of years ago or for anything else that may occur to them so as not to respond. Let us face the fact that this problem is something that we have to answer from the unit, and that is why this group is asking to harden the law against these criminal gangs, to protect and empower our State Security Forces and Bodies so that they can protect us and that they can protect us. We therefore present the following measures. We consider it necessary to renew the instruction of the Secretary of State for Equality regulating the police treatment of violent youth groups. It is 2014 and needs to be updated and strengthened. Also identify night and weekend conflict zones to enable more troops to be deployed, as well as strengthen information brigades. It is a necessary and too useful preventive mechanism to leave them as they are. Provide an economic base to pay for the extraordinary services of police or civilian guards who act in the prevention of such attacks. Review the Juvenile Act, in particular with regard to offences of special violence committed by minors. Also, increase surveillance in retail establishments dedicated to the sale, purchase and repair of weapons or white weapons. Support the work of prison officials by providing them with more personal and material means. These and the other measures that appear in the text of the initiative are essential for us to be able to resolve this unacceptable increase in crime. Don't turn 'Spain is safe' into Zapatero's new 'No crisis'. A lie that no matter how much you repeat is true. Spain, unfortunately, is no longer such a safe country, but don't worry that with the People's Party it will be again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u166	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u167	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion put to us by the People's Parliamentary Group allows us to address a youth issue that is of great importance, because we are aware that the criminal activity of youth gangs is increasing in recent years and that they are increasingly made up of younger people. We agree with the proposing group to recognize the presence and violence of these bands in the main cities of Spain, that this has increased and that events like those we have lived in Madrid last weeks generate a huge social alarm. However, we must look at the different edges from which this problem needs to be addressed. We are concerned that there is an increasing presence of women in these gangs, who are young people who are used to hide weapons or as spies. On the other hand, there is a logical fear between parents and teachers that these bands will try to capture young people in schools. In Citizens we are on the side of the law, in the fight against crime; we trust in our system, in the State Security Corps and Forces and in our judicial system, to work together, to do their work and to fall the full weight of the law before any criminal activity. But we must not forget the social aspect, and in this line we have proposed the amendments, because the experts point out that the gangs are mainly located in the outskirts of the big cities - Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia -, in areas of social exclusion, which many of the members of these gangs have been born in Spain and seek in them a support and a feeling of belonging that they do not find in their lives. According to social associations working with these young people, these groups are stronger in neighbourhoods where poverty is greatest. In addition, the profile of those young people who capture these gangs coincides with that of people who are in precarious employment, in school failure, lack of referrals, family destruction and lack of vital sense, in addition to poverty and social exclusion. We should not be simplistic when dealing with a problem such as youth gangs and violence. We have to take into account the social perspective and the police perspective. For this reason, in Citizens we believe that this is a complex issue. Some will surely try to reduce it by blaming crime on migration, because I suppose one of those speeches we are going to hear in this House, but we are sure we are going to give common sense and rationality to the problem. Social inclusion is the most powerful weapon we have to fight against youth gangs, whose members do not find a better future than their membership. But we are not naive; as I say, we give rationality and understand the fear of citizens when they see the threat growing on the streets. Moreover, this phenomenon threatens in a concrete way the middle and working classes located in the most conflictive neighborhoods. As we say, we have to combine, because sometimes I see a simplicity of dealing with things from one perspective or another; no. Common sense and professionalism tell us that we have to tackle it from the social side, that integration mechanisms are put in place to work on the origin of the problem so that there are alternatives for these young people who can belong to these violent gangs, and there has to be a police side, because obviously it is also necessary to face the problem that we already have today, to protect our citizens and to improve security in the neighbourhoods. Patrols must be strengthened; there must be more coordination between administrations in those areas that we know have a high level of insecurity; police replacement rates must be increased and police stations that have been closed down in the most insecure cores must be reopened. Therefore, our amendment has been complementing the social side that we believe the People's Party was lacking in its motion and we hope it will be accepted. In Citizens, too, we believe in the law. With regard to the Law on Citizen Security, we believe that it is a basic law for our order, for our coexistence, so we do not share that it should be repealed, as the Socialist Party intended when it was in the opposition and that it was apparently forgotten when it arrived at the Government. But we also do not believe in resignation, as the People's Party is proposing. What we want is to improve it. What's different is if the text that walks in this direction is going to be carried by the PSOE with its anti-system partners. We will oppose a text that criminalizes the State Security Forces and Bodies and sows doubts in favour of the work of this professional body for all citizens. In addition - and my colleague Edmundo has already said this in the previous speech - there are more than enough grounds to request Mr Marlaska's resignation. He's explained them, and I'm not going to stop at them, for...
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u168	Mrs. Giménez, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u169	...for reasons of time. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u170	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. The Spaniards have been afraid for a long time, and it seems to you too long that you don't care. To all of you, because this is not a new topic: 2010, ten lives truncated by Latin bands; 2012, arrested fifteen members of Latin bands accused of theft and injuries; 2016, the revenge for the murder of a Trinitarian in Sol plans on the environment; 2017, the new splendor of Latin bands, more murders and more detainees; 2018, detained twenty members of Latin bands for the death of a young man at the festivals of San Agustín de Guadalix. Holders of 2010, 2012, 2016, 2017, 2018. You have to have the nerve to think that the Spaniards are going to swallow that this is not your fault, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. [[Applauds]] You have governed different administrations all these years and, instead of accusing the Spaniards who warned of the problem of racists, xenophobics or conspirators, you had an obligation to solve the problem. And if you don't know how to improve living and living in neighbourhoods, as you have already shown, you have to give way to others, who will. [[Applauds]] Are you going to talk about the insecurity of the miners? Curious that now they talk about the Latin bands because now you see the headlines again and yet don't talk about the minas. Does it have anything to do with you bringing them in and keeping them? Ladies and gentlemen, any problem has its origin and, as Chesterton said, it is not that they cannot see the solution, it is that they cannot see the problem, it is that they are unable to diagnose the problem well. Because one of the fundamental origins of the insecurity of the ghettos, non-zones and fear are the open borders. You don't say that because it's the age of the politically correct, because it's wrong seen, because you can't say certain things even if they're true because of a possible media lynching. The problem is that VOX gives us exactly the same media lynching and we will tell the truth always and at any price. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, any serious criminologist investigates the cultural factor of certain crimes and does so in honor of the truth. And the cultural element of origin is undeniable for several reasons. Firstly, as a statistical reality in many types of crime. Secondly, non-zones, cultural impositions, war in the ghettos and neighbourhoods, ethnic wars are a reality in many neighbourhoods. Thirdly, there are new types of crime that did not exist in societies such as ours, such as the ablation of clitoris, forced marriages, machete conflicts. Mrs Fanjul, the problem is not that machetes are sold very easily in Spain, that is not the problem. That is misdiagnosing a problem and also knowingly. There are countries that are failed states, that already work with the eye for eye, tooth for tooth, or have worked like this always, with the law of the strongest. There are countries with very high crime rates, countries where life has very little value, and there are countries in which the religious component, like Saudi Arabia, generates that we can execute and that they are prisoners of death, for example, those who deny a particular religion. Ladies and gentlemen, putting massively different cultures in order to create a possible model of multicultural society is a sham. In addition, it is a very fat thyme with consequences suffered by humble Spaniards. The multicultural experiment in their roles, in their heads, is very nice. In their heads it may be to eat basmati rice or soy milk, but for the reality of the Spaniards, for the humble neighborhoods, it is criminality. They're machetes, they're herd rapes, they're forced marriages and clitoris ablation. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will deceive the Spanish if we say that this problem has an easy solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, twenty years of free bar, paper and open borders have very difficult consequences to reverse. It is you who have turned nationality into a process and devalued its value. Ladies and gentlemen, nationality is not a role. We are attacked when we say so, but nationality is a reality of belonging, and it is clear that that role, that process, that that DNI has to resemble this reality as much as possible. You're shocked when we say that the homeland is not a contract. Colleagues like Rufian say the homeland is the keys to their home. For Podemos it is public health, I don't know if they consider private health users Spanish as the former vice president Carmen Calvo, but the truth is that the nation is deeply uncomfortable for you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u172	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u173	It's over, Mr. President. Thank you very much. The nation is deeply uncomfortable for you, because at a time when we believe that everything is chosen, nations, like the family, like nature, like history, remind us that the most beautiful things in this world are superior to ourselves and to our desires. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u174	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mrs Álvarez Fanjul, a small cobbler. Hasn't it made you ashamed to present this motion? Have you read it twice? Have you read it? I don't mean it because of faults and spelling mistakes. If you look at it again, you will see how the increase in youth violence is mixed up, which is a reality and which is worrying - indeed, not only in Spain, but throughout the European Union - and that leads us to the fact that the first thing that should be done is a diagnosis, an analysis and to know why this phenomenon is taking place. But the point is that you, in this motion, in the explanatory statement mix several matters, starting by saying that the government is only interested in matters such as the false crime 'homophone' that you say, I don't know what you mean, I suppose homophobic. Also the famous bullets and bloody knife, what do you mean by this? That they were fake? That they were lies? In the same way, you dedicate three paragraphs to talking about ETA, which you will tell us, to put it in a shoemaker. I don't know if you think citizenship is stupid or are so bad for you to have to include this issue in a motion about youth violence and organized gangs. On the other hand, they say that if the law is repealed, identification and searches will be prevented. I don't know what this lie is about - it seems they're not following the talk about this law - but he's escaped in the intervention. He said that if reformed, foreigners could no longer be identified. One of the problems is the identification of ethnic profiles. You used and abused this figure and it is true that it must be avoided and I hope it can be avoided in this paper, but no, neither identifications nor caches will be eliminated. Also, if you review the wording of this chapuza, you will see that you say in one of the paragraphs that these bands are now not only made up of Latinos, but there are also Magrebians, Romanians and Spanish in them. With this they come to the same conclusion as the forces of the far right, which make that distinction between having DNI and being Spanish. You come to the same conclusion, as if you could not be a citizen of the Spanish State regardless of the origin of each person. Then they say that what they're most concerned about is that there's been an alleged order from an organization leader and that he did it from a cell phone, in prison. I encourage you to review the numbers of the seized mobile phones when you were in the government. I think they're going to take a little surprise and the government parties are going to laugh. They also talk about the increase in crimes, crimes, in Spain. I see that they have not been informed and that they have not read the last communiqué of yesterday, from the Ministry of the Interior, which announced that the crimes had descended, although I do not think that is cause for joy, because, speaking of juvenile crime, there is a problem that we have to analyse. Turning to the Petitum, you call for the resignation of Mr Marlaska and Mr Ortiz. This isn't new. I say to you that we have several reasons to support the resignation of the Minister of the Interior, but they are not precisely these. And they say that thanks to the records that were made last week, so many white weapons could be seized and more than forty people arrested and that is contradictory to what they present. On the one hand, they say that the Government is very bad and, on the other, that thanks to this measure these weapons have been detected and, I suppose, avoid other dramas. They ask us to renounce the amendment of the Law gag. Come on, no kidding. Precisely, we must put an end to all those liberticidal measures that you adopted alone. And they present a unique and exclusively police package of measures. I agree with what Mrs Giménez said, that this is not just about police action. It is a matter that needs to be analysed and addressed from a social, educational and also security perspective, of course, but not only and exclusively. That is why we will vote against this cobbler that you have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u176	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u177	In a Congress where cynicism and hypocrisy still smell a lot, I want to wish Mr. Casado well in his private life from the political antipodes. When I read this proposal to prevent and eradicate the criminal activity of organized groups, it reminded me a lot of the PP. Last Thursday I was watching a work by a good friend, from Xavi Castillo, Yonquis of money, based on the book of Sergi Castillo, Yonquis of money. If there's an organized gang in this country for delinquency it's the PP, it's the PP! Mr Iñarritu has defined this perfectly. How dare you present this boulder in this House? If we start counting... [[Rumors.-A Mr. MP: President!-A Mrs. MP: And your party, what?]] My party is not condemned for corruption, yours is. [[Applauds]] Yours, yes. For stealing money from all the citizens, for putting it in their pockets, for having a B-box, for having all the treasurers charged. [[Protests]] For having imputed all the presidents of the Community of Madrid. That's a band, that's an organized band. [[Protests continue.- Various Members: President! That's it! That's it!]] They have very fine skin. You guys are able to scream here when you're talking one... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u178	One second, please. Please allow Mr. Baldoví to continue and finish. He's got 13 seconds left to finish his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u179	I'm ending up with all the peace of mind in the world, with a quiet conscience and a very high face, which you can't all say. If you are able to mix in your proposal different matters, why can't I also mix different matters? I mean, for you, yes, and for me, no? [[Applauds]] Anyway, I repeat, if there's a band, that's the PP. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u180	Thank you very much. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel asks for the floor.]] Yeah, yeah. When the point is over, when the debate is over. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Quiet. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will give your colleague the floor once the point is over, it will not be necessary to add more things. [[Laughter]] Let's hope not. Let it be over and, when the debate is over, your honor will have the floor. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u181	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion on this item on the agenda on the prevention and eradication of organised crime points to a youth reality, which I fully share that it should be addressed as a polyhedral reality: from the security factor, from the youth factor, from the social factor. In any case, allow me to highlight the defence of security, public order, support for the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Urban Guard, the local police, which are undoubtedly some of the milestones in which the PeCAT, the Democratic Party, make a policy with security, a policy of unemployment and a policy of providing solutions to people's well-being. Undoubtedly, these bodies need means, but also legal instruments. And it is at this point, beyond the content of the motion, that we do not share, where I want to explain to you the proposal of the Democratic Party, of the PeCAT, regarding the amendment of the Penal Code in that concerning multirecidence, small thefts, a reality that also affects many organized gangs. These small thefts affect people of all ages, from young people to older people, affect businesses, affect economic activity, affect especially urban centres, such as my city, Barcelona, but also many metropolitan areas or many rural areas. Addressing the issue of multirecidence would also allow us to solve examples such as those of the past few days. For their information, on 14 February, 14 people with 154 records were arrested; 14 more were reported with 163 records; about 139 offenders with more than 1200 police records. Therefore, the issue of organized gangs, crime and security in the environment in which our fellow citizens live requires, without a doubt, a much more precise technical approach, as can be solutions aimed at them by the Democratic Party and the modification of the multirecidence regime. We will not support the motion; we understand that neither its spirit nor its content is acceptable in this mixture of totally arbitrary content, as has already been pointed out, but we do take advantage of it to appeal to the rest of the group to face this reality, this reality of organized gangs, multi-recital gangs and small thefts, which particularly affect security in cities such as Barcelona, for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u182	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u183	Thank you, President. I cannot begin in any other way than by denouncing that hate crimes, hate speech are allowed in this House, so that racist and xenophobic speeches are allowed while, on other occasions, we have been censored to claim that there is institutional racism, of which we do have data. [[Applauds]] They do not have them, they cannot support them and, therefore, we cannot do anything other than disagree with the Bureau's policy in that regard. We are also extremely concerned about the discourse that has been slowly sinking into these interventions that there is indeed what juvenile crime is. Different parliamentary groups, too many parliamentary groups, have affirmed this in one way or another with different visions, and there we cannot fall. Violence doesn't have a specific adjective, violence isn't age, it doesn't originate and we can say that if we go to the data, in the data we will find it, and we can't fall back into that. In 2012, when the People's Party introduced the labour reform that cuts our labour rights - quite a few of which, by the way, have not yet recovered - to hide the levels of unemployment, they tried to make young people vague, if they did not want to work. At the beginning of the pandemic, with the difficult management of an unplanned situation, several media were responsible for accusing young people of being insolidary, accusing them even at a specific moment of being the transmitters of the virus, and now, with their internal conflict, they have the need to create new frameworks, new focus of attention to the pure VOX style, creating the framework that young people are violent in order to generate a false feeling of insecurity, which has always allowed them to impose their order, and they do so criminalizing young people and the Latin American population. We can't allow this. They want to talk about security; let's talk about security, but let's do it with ownership, taking into account everything that affects security, not just what is good for you to do electoral and to cover up the corruption that is emerging these days. We are concerned about citizen security, yes, we are fighting to ensure that all citizens, as old as they are, have the name they have, live without fear of their rights being violated, and to that end, ladies and gentlemen, we must guarantee material security, a material security. In other words, access to employment, respect for labour rights, access to emancipation, guarantee of housing stability, access to public health, guarantee of prevention and treatment of diseases, access to citizenship and respect for equality between citizens must be guaranteed. When material security is not respected, it is when one or one feels helpless, and this security is not going to guarantee more police forces, this security is guaranteed by the public authorities, yes, by the public authorities, those that you try to corrupt and dismantle, because it is absolutely indifferent to them that the majority of citizens can become insecure as long as a few, their own, feel safe. [[applause]] This material security must be backed by political security, and it would be appropriate to guarantee the independence of the public authorities, something which does not exist in the 78 regime in which we live. Can you tell us - and now I mean all those parties that have been part of the Government of the State - how is it explained that nine years of imprisonment are requested for fourteen young people from Pego, in the High Navy, for protesting against the presence of fascists in their people? How is it explained that the Prosecutor's Office pursues the anti-fascist movement in such a way? Can you explain to us how, on the other hand, seven neo-Nazis - neo-Nazis - who have been arrested for possession of weapons of all kinds and with plans of violent action are released on provisional release? How can it be explained that this has not opened any television news while, instead, police assemblies towards anti-fascists, independenceists and anyone who questions the regime mark the political agenda of the government in turn? All this, ladies and gentlemen, is what creates insecurity, and its law of gag and its law of alienation only contribute to it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u184	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, once again the People's Party prefers to talk about youth as a problem rather than about youth problems. The approach made by the People's Party is that youth is a problem because it generates insecurity on the streets and that the best thing the Minister of the Interior can do to solve the problem is to resign. Well, it's an unserious and unruly approach, and it's even a little daring to criticize the Ministry of the Interior after the use you made of it when you ruled. We will try to contextualize this debate on criminal activities of organized and violent youth groups. This debate comes here and now because at the beginning of the month in the Community of Madrid there were five almost simultaneous clashes at different points in the region between alleged members of youth gangs. Two young men, one twenty - five years old and one fifteen years old, were killed by machetes, and three others were seriously injured. It is normal that in the face of such an event people get scared, people from neighborhoods like Villaverde, Parla, San Blas, Hortaleza, Latina or Puente de Vallecas, and it is reasonable that we talk about this here. What is not reasonable and what is not welcome is that they use pain, that they use fear, that they use misfortunes to try to achieve a political outcome and put electoral messages. Does the People's Party really think that Spain is an insecure country? Have you seen the crime rate? You know the Ministry of the Interior is acting. You know the Master Plan for improving the coexistence and security of educational institutions and their environments, you know the Police Action and Coordination Plan for organized and violent youth groups, you know the Plan for the intensification of surveillance in the youth leisure areas of the Civil Guard, you know the Civil Guard Weapons Plan, and you even know the fight against this type of phenomenon as a priority objective of the Chief of the Madrid Police. What are you doing in the Community of Madrid? You should listen to expert people, such as Nuria Manzano, social worker and project coordinator of the Trama Association, when she says that the problem of youth gangs is a minority and that what is a majority is inequality. The Community of Madrid has an index of inequality above the Spanish average. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Community of Madrid, in view of the increasing demand in this region for young people who want to study vocational training, you decide to exclude it from the education system. Each year more than 5000 young people are left without a place and more than half of the young people who want to study a higher degree in the Community of Madrid are left out. The problem of school segregation has a lot to do with this about what we are talking about today. The separation of boys and girls in different educational institutions according to their socio-economic situation constitutes a barrier to equity and social cohesion. In Madrid, the rate of school segregation has not stopped increasing in recent years because you, ladies and gentlemen, do not bet on inclusive education; it is more, as the Member of the Madrid Assembly of the United States points out, Podemos, Agustín Moreno, his educational policy is a deliberate strategy of diverting students from the private sector. In ten years the student studying FP in concert and private has increased from 27 % to 44%. You only offer the future to those who can afford it. We must go to the root of this matter and address the problems of youth, ladies and gentlemen, because what is not spoken of does not exist and what does not exist is marginalized. According to Dr. Carles Freixa, these organizations are the result of marginalization, lack of work and lack of a sense of identity. Criminalization, ladies and gentlemen, punitiveism, Mrs Fanjul, will not solve the problem. The focus should be on prevention and support measures for social inclusion. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u186	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u187	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. People's Party and organized criminal gangs. Anyway, it wasn't the best day, ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't the best day. [[Applauds]] Really, gentlemen of the PP, with what's falling into your house coming here this week to talk about criminal gangs... Look, while the right in Madrid manifests itself to whitewash the PP's chanchullos against the PP, in Andalusia the socialists manifest themselves to defend public health in front of the Andalusian right. [[Applauds]] That's the difference. You to yours, us to everyone's and everyone's. The same People's Party that did business with the masks in the middle of the VOCID pandemic, the same People's Party that ensured that the minimum wage was raised to 1000 euros would sink the economy, the same People's Party that refused to raise pensions, the same People's Party that went to Europe to talk badly about Spain and about the management of European funds - less badly than you have not touched -, the same People's Party that wants to run the country and is not able to run its own house. You're the usual, doing the usual. [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, you no longer need to come here and show us your pretend concern for the safety of the Spaniards, because we already know, we know that what interests you is the money from the masks to make contracts here, in Madrid, and in my province, in Almería. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the President's brother and in Almeria we have a Vice-President of the Parliament, of the People's Party, arrested and in pre-trial detention, another Vice-President who has been investigated or charged, as you wish, and a President of the institution whom I believe their codes of good practice, of anti-corruption control, have not yet been activated. What training did they give you as a public office? Did they put on the whole saga of The Godfather? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of youth gangs is what you see on TV, it is what you see from politicians like you, because this is not political, this is something else: espionage, extortion, betrayal, threats and public lynching. I wouldn't be surprised if one of these youth gangs was given to form an extreme right-wing political party. However, for your information, we live in a safe country; despite you, we live in a safe country. I inform you that in 2021 - apart from the activities of the People's Party - we have had in Spain the lowest crime rate since there are records. Spain is therefore a safe society and its capital as well, as it has admitted someone not suspected of being a friend of the Government, such as Mrs. Díaz Ayuso. Nor does he sympathize very much with you, we must also say so. They speak in their motion of gangs, of cessations, of resignations. Instead of proposing to stop Minister Marlaska, they would have been better off if they had long ago stopped their dome, starting with Mr. García Aegean, who since entering this door seemed to be the head of the 'Latin Genoese'. [[Rumors and Protests]] With regard to concrete measures to address this phenomenon, the spokesman for Podemos has already said, there are some, such as the Plan of Police Action and Coordination in relation to organized groups or the Plan of White Weapons of the Civil Guard, the fight against this type of phenomenon as a priority objective of the Chief of the Madrid Police. But don't forget one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the most dangerous thing right now on the streets of Madrid are not those youth gangs that the police know how to put an end to, the real dangerous ones are you. Married leaves, but corruption stays. That is why - and in conclusion - for the only thing that you are legitimized here today, in this House, is to bend your head to ask the Spanish for forgiveness. [[Protests]] Yeah, but look, it's not me who says it, nor my group, it's their own... [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah, easy. It is his own president to this day who said that while in Spain people died, there were people who profited from the sanitary material that saved lives. What indecency! Therefore, Your Honor, I do not know how it is possible to go up to this rostrum to request resignations from the Government. Be, for once in your history, consistent with what is expected of you, and yes, take the floor, but to ask for forgiveness. And let it not happen again; let this purpose of amendment be done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs Alvarez Fanjul, do you accept any of the amendments tabled? Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: The Citizens' Day.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u189	Okay. [[Mrs Montesinos de Miguel asks for the floor]] Mrs Montesinos, tell me on the basis of which article the basic word is taken.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u190	On the basis of Article 71.3.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u191	Tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u192	I want to make it clear that Mr Baldoví's assertions that the People's Party is condemned for corruption are rigorously false. That's fake. And from the point of view of this honourable Member who speaks to you, there is no worse corruption than that which is hidden... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2022-02-23-CD220223.u193	Your Honor, one second. You don't have the floor. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was one and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
